OBJECTIVES : This study investigated the characteristics and clinical efficacy of transoral endoscopy-assisted low-temperature plasma surgery for the treatment of oropharyngeal malignant tumours . METHODS : The clinical data of 14 patients who underwent transoral endoscopy-assisted low-temperature plasma resection of oropharyngeal malignant tumours in the Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery from January 2017 to October 2024 were retrospectively analysed . The general characteristics , clinical pathology results , surgical methods , operative time , volume of blood loss , length of hospitalization , and follow-up status of the patients were analysed . RESULTS : The 14 patients included 13 males and 1 female , and the average age was 60 +/- 9 years . Three patients received flaps for wound repair ( 1 forearm flap , 1 platysma myocutaneous flap , and 1 submental flap ) , 6 patients underwent unilateral neck lymph node dissection , 5 patients underwent bilateral neck lymph node dissection , and 1 patient underwent preventive tracheotomy . The average duration of the operations was 231 +/- 114 min , and the average duration of tumour resection was 53 +/- 15 min . The average volume of blood loss was 66 +/- 55 ml , and the average duration of hospitalization was 10 +/- 5 days . Postoperative pathology confirmed that 13 patients had squamous cell carcinoma , and 1 patient had mucoepidermoid carcinoma . The average duration of postoperative follow-up was 20 +/- 14 months . One patient developed multisystem metastases , and one patient experienced tumour recurrence . all other patients survived well . CONCLUSIONS : Transoral surgery has become more common as a minimally invasive approach for treating oropharyngeal tumours . Transoral endoscopy-assisted low-temperature plasma-assisted resection of oropharyngeal malignant tumours may be used as a surgical approach .
The dysfunction of wound-healing processes can result in chronic non-healing wounds and pathological scar formation . Current treatment options often fall short , necessitating innovative approaches . Exosomes , extracellular vesicles secreted by various cells , have emerged as promising therapeutic agents serving as an intercellular communication system . By engineering exosomes , their cargo and surface properties can be tailored to enhance therapeutic efficacy and specificity . Engineered exosomes ( eExo ) are emerging as a favorable tool for treating non-healing wounds and pathological scars . In this review , we delve into the underlying mechanisms of non-healing wounds and pathological scars , outline the current state of engineering strategies , and explore the clinical potential of eExo based on preclinical and clinical studies . In addition , we address the current challenges and future research directions , including standardization , safety and efficacy assessments , and potential immune responses . In conclusion , eExo hold great promise as a novel therapeutic approach for non-healing wounds and non-healing wounds and pathological scars . Further research and clinical trials are warranted to translate preclinical findings into effective clinical treatments .
BACKGROUND : Oral cancer ( OC ) is one of the major types of cancer and the most common cause of cancer-related mortality in Asia . In recent years , matrix stiffness in the tumor microenvironment has been found to play an important role in regulating tumor cell behavior . However , the regulatory mechanisms associated with matrix stiffness in OC cells remain unclear . METHODS : In this study , polyacrylamide gels with different stiffness were prepared to simulate low versus high matrix stiffness environments in tumor tissues by adjusting the acrylamide and cross-linker concentrations . Subsequently , the effects of different stiffness on OC cell survival , migration , invasion and invadopodia formation were explored based on cell counting kit-8 ( CCK-8 ) , Transwell and confocal microscopy . Meanwhile , the levels of markers relevant to phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( PI3K ) /protein kinase B ( AKT ) , apoptosis ( BAX and BCL2 ) as well as metastasis ( Cadherin-1 , CDH1 ; Cadherin-2 , and CDH2 ) were calculated via western blotting and real-time quantitative PCR . RESULTS : According to the results , high matrix stiffness was seen to contribute to the increased number of migrated and invaded cells as well as the enhanced viability of OC cells , along with the aggravated invadopodia formation and the up-regulation in CDH2 and BCL2 levels yet the down-regulation in CDH1 and BAX levels . Elevated PI3K/AKT phosphorylation levels were also seen in high matrix stiffness-mediated OC cells , and the intervention using LY294002 could visibly overturned the effects of high matrix stiffness on the cell migration , invasion and invadopodia formation of OC cells . CONCLUSIONS : This study reveals that matrix stiffness may enhance the invasiveness and anti-apoptotic ability of OC cells by activating the PI3K/AKT pathway , which provides a new idea for exploring the microenvironmental regulation of tumor mechanics and targeted intervention strategies .
BACKGROUND : While primary breast cancer ( BC ) is often effectively managed , metastasis remains the primary cause of BC-related fatalities . Gaps remain in our understanding of the mechanisms regulating cancer cell organotropism with predilection to specific organs . Unraveling mediators of site-specific metastasis could enhance early detection and enable more tailored interventions . Liquid biopsy represents an innovative approach in cancer involving the analysis of biological materials such as circulating tumor DNA and tumor-derived extracellular vesicles ( EV ) found in body fluids like blood or urine . This offers valuable insights for characterizing and monitoring tumor genomes to advance personalized medicine in metastatic cancers . METHODS : We performed in-depth analyses of EV cargo associated with BC metastasis using eight murine cell line models with distinct metastatic potentials and organotropism to the lung , the bone , the liver , and the brain . We characterized the secretome of these cells to identify unique biomarkers specific to metastatic sites . RESULTS : Small EVs isolated from all cell lines were quantified and validated for established EV markers . Tracking analysis and electron microscopy revealed EV secretion patterns that differed according to cell line . Cell-free ( cf ) DNA and EV-associated DNA ( EV-DNA ) were detected from all cell lines with varying concentrations . We detected a TP53 mutation in both EV-DNA and cfDNA . Mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses identified 698 EV-associated proteins , which clustered according to metastatic site . This analysis highlighted both common EV signatures and proteins involved in cancer progression and organotropism unique to metastatic cell lines . Among these , 327 significantly differentially enriched proteins were quantified with high confidence levels across BC and metastatic BC cells . We found enrichment of specific integrin receptors in metastatic cancer EVs compared to EVs secreted from non-transformed epithelial cells and matched tumorigenic non-metastatic cells . Pathway analyses revealed that EVs derived from parental cancer cells display a cell adhesion signature and are enriched with proteins involved in cancer signaling pathways . CONCLUSION : Taken together , the characterization of EV cargo in a unique model of BC organotropism demonstrated that EV-DNA and EV proteomes were informative of normal and cancer states . This work could help to identify BC biomarkers associated with site-specific metastasis and new therapeutic targets .
BACKGROUND : The prognosis of osteosarcoma has improved little over the past few decades , with radioresistance being a contributing factor . Effective radiosensitizing targets and novel mechanisms for treating osteosarcoma are urgently needed . Research on the impact of regulating differentiation levels on the radiosensitivity of malignant tumors is limited . This study aimed to explore the efficacy of ITGB3 as a novel radiosensitizing target in osteosarcoma and to explore whether the modulation of osteogenic differentiation plays a role in mediating the radiosensitizing effect . METHODS : RNA sequencing was utilized to screen for potential targets that affect the radiosensitivity of osteosarcoma . In vitro assays examining cell viability , apoptosis , proliferation , migration , and invasion were conducted to verify the radiosensitizing effect of ITGB3-knockdown ( KD ) . Furthermore , in vivo validation was performed by constructing mouse models with subcutaneous and orthotopic tibial tumors . Rescue experiments involving siRNAs and molecular inhibitors were performed to explore and validate the mechanisms through which ITGB3-KD exerts a radiosensitizing effect in vitro and in vivo . Additionally , osteogenic differentiation cultures of osteosarcoma cells were conducted as auxiliary validation for the radiosensitizing mechanism . RESULTS : ITGB3-KD had a radiosensitizing effect on osteosarcoma in vitro by inhibiting cell viability , proliferation , migration , and invasion and promoting apoptosis . ITGB3-KD radiosensitized osteosarcoma in vivo in subcutaneous and orthotopic tibial tumor models . ITGB3-KD upregulated the JNK/c-JUN pathway , and rescue experiments with a JNK inhibitor revealed that the activation of this pathway was crucial for the upregulation of osteogenic markers such as RUNX2 , OCN , and OPN , as well as for promoting apoptotic pathways . siRNA-based rescue experiments indicated that the upregulation of RUNX2 mediated the proapoptotic radiosensitizing effects of ITGB3-KD . Culture in osteogenic differentiation medium promoted osteosarcoma radiosensitization by enhancing the osteogenic differentiation status , working synergistically with ITGB3-KD . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings indicate that ITGB3-KD enhances radiosensitivity in osteosarcoma by promoting osteogenic differentiation and apoptosis through activation of the JNK/c-JUN/RUNX2 pathway , identifying ITGB3 as a candidate therapeutic target and implicating JNK/c-JUN/RUNX2 signaling as a modulatory axis for improving the response to radiation of osteosarcoma .
BACKGROUND : Metachromatic leukodystrophy ( MLD ) is a life-limiting neurodegenerative disease due to pathogenic variants in the ARSA gene . Patients experience severe neurological symptoms , developmental regression , and early death . Aim of the study was to analyze disease burden and healthcare utilization in different stages of the disease in children with late infantile and juvenile MLD in Germany . METHODS : Out of a nationwide total cohort study ( TC ) ( n = 83 ) , we undertook telephone interviews in a representative follow-up cohort ( FC ) defined by advanced disease stages ( n = 19 ) . The FC allowed detailed long-term data of the disease in addition to cross-sectional data of the TC . RESULTS : Nearly all patients showed spasticity , truncal hypotonia and dysphagia , and about half of the patients developed epilepsy . Most children required special education ; none finished regular school . Analysis of the FC showed that neuronal intestinal burden was extensive , including obstipation ( 57% ) , micturition problems ( 47% ) , and tube feeding ( 63% ) . Gallbladder polyposis was seen in 52% . General well-being did not strongly correlate with motor function , whereas pain was associated with reduced well-being . Baclofen , Omeprazole , Vigabatrin and Polyethyleneglycol were the most frequently used drugs . Patients took up to 15 different drugs daily . Altogether , 127 hospitalisations ( 485 treatment days ) were registered in the FC ( median age 9 years , median one inpatient stay per patient per year ) . Diagnostic procedures were main reasons for hospitalization ( 29 hospitalizations , 128 treatment days ) , and accounted for the main burden for families ( 68% ) . The median use of 15 different devices ( maximum 29 ) throughout life illustrated a high burden of the disease . During disease course , there was a change from more " active " devices ( e . g . , walker ) to more " passive " devices ( e . g . , form seat ) . Physical therapy was the most relevant therapy in advanced disease stages ( 100% ) , while occupational therapy or speech therapy primarily were used in early disease stages . State welfare benefits , home- and palliative care were used broadly . CONCLUSION : Diagnostic and treatment routine pathways and sociomedical support in MLD require extensive resources . We provide detailed cross-sectional and long-term data of MLD-associated disease burden in different stages of disease . This data may serve as a reference when analyzing disease- and healthcare burden also after gene-/stem cell-therapy .
Immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) have transformed the treatment landscape for advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , yet durable responses remain limited in a subset of patients . Serum amyloid A ( SAA ) , an acute-phase protein linked to systemic inflammation , may reflect dynamic immune responses . This retrospective study analyzed 242 advanced NSCLC patients treated with first-line chemoimmunotherapy or immunotherapy between August 2016 and December Patients were stratified by early SAA kinetics into flare-responders ( initial rise followed by decline ) , responders ( sustained decline ) , and non-responders . Clinical outcomes , including progression-free survival ( PFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) , were evaluated using Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses . In the chemoimmunotherapy cohort , SAA flare-responders demonstrated significantly prolonged median PFS ( 8 months , 95% CI : 95-65 ; HR : 31 , 95% CI : 15-64 ; p < 01 ) compared to non-responders ( 4 months , 95% CI : 67-13 ) . Similarly , in the immunotherapy cohort , SAA flare-responders showed superior PFS . ( 9 vs . 1 months , HR 31 , p < 01 ) . Multivariate analysis confirmed early SAA kinetics as an independent prognostic factor for both PFS and OS in both treatment groups . Early SAA kinetics serve as a promising non-invasive biomarker for predicting clinical outcomes in advanced NSCLC treated with first-line chemoimmunotherapy or immunotherapy . These findings highlight SAA kinetics as a potential non-invasive biomarker and monitoring SAA dynamics may aid in identifying patients with higher likelihood of clinical benefit ; however , prospective studies are required to determine its utility in guiding therapeutic decisions .
BACKGROUND : Clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential ( CHIP ) is defined as the aging-related clonal expansion of preleukemic mutations in hematopoietic stem cells . While CHIP has been studied in cardiometabolic diseases ( CMDs ) , its role in the long-term progression from the absence of CMD to the development of a single CMD , cardiometabolic multimorbidity ( CMM ) , and eventual mortality remains uncertain . This study aimed to investigate the association between CHIP and gene-specific CHIP subtypes with the progression of CMD transitions . METHODS : We included UK Biobank participants without CMD at baseline . The primary outcomes were the first CMD , CMM , and death . We evaluated associations between any CHIP ( variant allele fraction [VAF] >/= 2% ) , large CHIP ( VAF >/= 10% ) , and gene-specific CHIP subtypes ( DNMT3 A , TET2 , ASXL1 , JAK2 , PPM1D/TP53 [DNA damage genes] , and SF3B1/SRSF2/U2 AF1 [spliceosome genes] ) with CMD transitions via multistate model analyses . We estimated multivariable-adjusted hazard ratios ( HRs ) and 95% CIs with age as the time scale , and adjusted for sex , race , Townsend Deprivation Index , body mass index ( BMI ) , smoking , alcohol , physical activity , sleep duration , and hypertension . RESULTS : The study included 371 , 544 participants , with a mean age of 60 ( +/- 03 ) years , and 2% of whom were male ( CHIP : n = 11 , 570 [1%] ; large CHIP : n = 7156 [9%] ) . During a median follow-up period of 49 years , 54 , 805 individuals developed at least one CMD , 8090 experienced CMM , and 26 , 218 died . In the fully adjusted multistate models , CHIP and large CHIP were associated with adjusted hazard ratios ( HR ) of 11 ( 95% CI 07-16 ) and 14 ( 95% CI 08-20 ) , respectively , for transitioning from a CMD-free condition to a single CMD . The mortality risk associations were strongest , with adjusted HR of 45 ( 95% CI 36-55 ) and 64 ( 95% CI 52-77 ) for those without CMD , 39 ( 95% CI 26-54 ) and 59 ( 95% CI 41-79 ) for individuals with single CMD , and 58 ( 95% CI 31-91 ) and 61 ( 95% CI 29-02 ) for those with CMM . No significant association was observed with CMM development . Gene-specific analyses identified DNMT3 A , TET2 , DNA damage genes , and spliceosome genes as the primary contributors to increased CMD risk . While CHIP showed no association with CMM progression , spliceosome genes were linked to a 72-fold higher risk ( adjusted HR 72 , 95% CI 14-59 ) of recurrent CMD events . All CHIP subtypes were strongly related to a heightened risk of mortality , with JAK2 presenting the highest adjusted odds ratio at 79 ( 95% CI 12-2 ) . CONCLUSIONS : CHIP serves as an independent risk factor for transitioning to the first CMD incidence and for mortality but is not associated with CMM development . CHIP-targeted management may represent a promising strategy for the primary prevention of CMD and for reducing mortality risk .
BACKGROUND : Podocytes are a crucial component of the glomerular filtration barrier , and changes in their 3D structure contribute to over 80% of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) cases . Exosomal small RNAs play a key role in cell-cell communication in CKD and may serve as nanocarriers for delivering small RNAs into podocytes . However , the uptake of exosomal cargo by podocytes remains poorly understood . This study explores the use of isolated exosomes , directly transfected with fluorescently-labeled small RNAs , for tracking and delivering small RNAs to cultured podocytes . METHODS : Exosomes were isolated from immortalized murine podocytes and transfected with Cy3-labeled siRNA and miRNA controls using the ExoFect siRNA/miRNA Transfection Kit . We characterized the transfected exosomes via transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) and Western blot for exosomal markers CD9 and TSG Subsequently , we co-cultured these exosomes with podocytes and used confocal laser-scanning microscopy ( cLSM ) , and structured illumination microscopy ( SIM ) to visualize cargo uptake , confirmed through flow cytometry , imaging flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining for Rab5 , Rab7 , and CD The isolated exosomes were also transfected with pre-miR-21 and filamin A ( FlnA ) -siRNAs before being co-cultured with podocytes . We confirmed the efficiency of transfection and knockdown using RT-qPCR , Western blotting , and immunofluorescence staining . RESULTS : TEM revealed that the exosomes maintained a consistent shape and size of approximately 20 nm posttransfection and exhibited a stable expression of CD9 and TSG Flow cytometry and immunofluorescence imaging showed that podocytes take up Cy3-labeled exosomal miRNAs and siRNAs time-dependently , utilizing various mechanisms , including encapsulation within vesicular structures , endocytosis and free distribution within the cells . Transfection of exosomes with FlnA-siRNAs resulted in a significant 8-fold reduction of filamin A expression in co-cultured podocytes , while pre-miR-21-transfected exosomes led to a remarkable 338-fold increase in mature miR-21 levels . CONCLUSIONS : These findings demonstrate that direct exosome transfection with fluorescently-labeled small RNAs is an effective method for tracking exosomal cargo in podocytes . This study is the first to show that directly transfected exosomes can deliver small RNAs to podocytes in vitro , suggesting their potential as RNA carriers for therapeutic strategies in more complex settings .
BACKGROUND : In the present study , we intended to discover predictive or prognostic factors of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) . We intended to investigate the differences between PDAC cases that are treated with upfront surgery ( UFS ) and surgery after neoadjuvant FOLFIRINOX chemotherapy ( NAT ) , and cases with good and poor responses to NAT , using digital spatial profiling ( DSP ) and immunohistochemical ( IHC ) analysis . METHODS : Forty-eight PDAC cases that were surgically resected with or without NAT were included . A tissue microarray was constructed for DSP and IHC . Pathological tumor regression to NAT was graded based on the College of American Pathologists ( CAP ) system . RESULTS : Between the UFS and NAT groups , there were no significant differentially expressed genes in all cell types . In the NAT group , MFAP4 and EGR3 were upregulated in CAP 2 in pan CK- and CD45-negative cells . Gene set enrichment analysis of CD45-positive cells showed that genes related to B or T cell-associated pathways were enriched in CAP 2 , which correlated with the IHC ; higher CD3- , CD4- , and CD8-positive cell densities in CAP Multivariate analysis revealed age , high monocyte infiltration , and high CD68-positive cell infiltration as independent prognostic factors for overall survival . CONCLUSIONS : Increased expression of MFAP4 and EGR3 as well as high CD3- , CD4- , and CD8-positive cell infiltration may be predictive markers of the NAT response in PDAC . Additionally , high monocyte infiltration and high CD68-positive cell infiltration could serve as prognostic markers for PDAC .
BACKGROUND : Endometrial cancer ( EC ) is a significant and serious gynecological cancer , constituting a considerable risk to women ' s health . The desumoylation of SUMO specific peptidase 5 ( SENP5 ) is intricately linked with various cancers . Nonetheless , the function of SENP5 in EC and its regulation of EC progression through the related mechanism of desumoylation modification remain elusive . METHODS : Five samples of EC tumor tissues , along with para-cancerous tissues , were obtained . The expression of SENP5 in EC was assessed using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) , immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) , and Western blot . HEC-1-B cells were treated with liposomes to interfere SENP5 and/or beta-catenin expression . The methodologies employed to assess the impact of SENP5 on the proliferation of EC cells via beta-catenin included RT-qPCR , Western blot , CCK8 , EDU , and C11-BODIPY methods . Western blot , co-immunoprecipitation ( CO-IP ) , and SUMOylation analysis were conducted to investigate the desumoylation modification of beta-catenin by SENP RESULTS : SENP5 exhibited elevated expression levels in EC cancer tissues and was correlated with a negative prognosis for patients diagnosed with EC . The suppression of SENP5 inhibited the expression of beta-catenin and GPX4 , activated ferroptosis , and inhibited HEC-1-B -cell proliferation . Knockdown of beta-catenin counteracted the impact of SENP5 overexpression on ferroptosis and HEC-1-B proliferation . In addition , SENP5 stabilized beta-catenin level in HEC-1-B cells through desumoylation modification of the beta-catenin protein . CONCLUSIONS : SENP5 promotes GPX4-mediated ferroptosis resistance , thereby enhancing the proliferation of EC cells by regulating beta-catenin desumoylation , this finding indicates that SENP5 may serve as a promising target for therapeutic interventions in the treatment of EC .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is the sixth most prevalent malignancy worldwide , and represents a major global health challenge . While surgical resection at early stages offers favorable prognosis with 5-year survival rates exceeding 70% , the clinical reality in China reveals a contrasting scenario , where over 60% of patients present with advanced disease , resulting in a dramatic decline in 5-year survival to below 5% . The immunological landscape plays a pivotal role in HCC pathogenesis and progression , comprising two complementary arms : the innate immune system ' s rapid-response mechanism for immediate tumor surveillance and the adaptive immune system ' s antigen-specific targeting with immunological memory capabilities . Emerging evidence has highlighted ubiquitination , a sophisticated post-translational modification system , as a critical regulator of immune homeostasis in HCC pathogenesis . This molecular process exerts precise control through three primary mechanisms : Modulation of immune cell activation thresholds via proteasomal degradation of signaling proteins , Orchestrating immune cell differentiation through stability regulation of transcriptional factors , and Maintenance of immune tolerance by dynamic modification of checkpoint regulators . Such multifaceted regulation affects both innate immune recognition pathways ( e . g . , NF-kappaB and STING signaling ) and adaptive immune effectors ( particularly T cell receptor signaling cascades ) . This comprehensive review establishes a threefold Objective : First , to elucidate the mechanistic interplay between ubiquitination networks and HCC-related immune dysregulation ; Second , to systematically analyze how innate immune-associated ubiquitination events drive hepatocarcinogenesis through chronic inflammation modulation ; and third , to critically evaluate recent clinical advances combining ubiquitination-targeted therapies ( e . g . , proteasome inhibitors and E3 ligase modulators ) with immunotherapeutic regimens . Our synthesis revealed that strategic manipulation of ubiquitination pathways can potentiate PD-1/PD-L1 blockade efficacy while mitigating therapeutic resistance , particularly through modulation of tumor-associated macrophages and exhausted T cell populations . By integrating fundamental mechanistic insights with translational clinical data , this review provides a conceptual framework for the development of next-generation diagnostic biomarkers and rational therapeutic combinations . The proposed strategy of ubiquitination-immune axis modulation holds significant potential to transform current HCC management paradigms , offering new avenues for precision immunotherapy for this challenging malignancy .
BACKGROUND : The salivary glands of female ticks rapidly degenerate after feeding via programmed cell death mediated by an ecdysteroid receptor ( ECR ) . The degeneration includes both apoptosis and autophagy . The process of degeneration can also be regulated by microRNAs ( miRNAs ) , but the underlying mechanism of miRNA involvement in salivary gland degeneration remains incompletely understood . Here , we demonstrate that microRNA34-5p ( miR-34-5p ) regulates the process of salivary gland degeneration in Rhipicephalus haemaphysaloides by modulating the target gene RhECR . METHODS : Dual luciferase reporter assays and phenotypic rescue experiments identified RhECR as a direct target of miR-34-5p . The overexpression and inhibition of miR-34-5p were quantified by hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E ) and Terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP Nick-End Labeling ( TUNEL ) staining . RESULTS : The results showed that miR-34-5p inhibited the expression of RhECR to retard apoptosis in salivary gland acini . The study identified the roles of miR-34-5p and RhECR and their interactions in tick salivary gland degeneration . CONCLUSIONS : The findings will aid in the application of ECR genes for tick control .
Human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( HTLV-1 ) retrovirus that infects millions of individuals worldwide , have caused severe diseases like adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma ( ATLL ) and HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( HAM/TSP ) . Despite extensive research efforts , the underlying mechanisms leading to HTLV-1 pathogenesis remain incompletely understood . New research has revealed that microRNAs ( miRNAs ) play a crucial role in the complex interplay between HTLV-1 infection and host cellular responses . This review highlights the multifaceted interactions between HTLV-1 and miRNAs , encompassing both viral manipulation of cellular miRNA networks and host miRNA-mediated responses . Gaining a comprehensive understanding of the complex interconnection between HTLV-1 infection and miRNAs provides a significant opportunity for discovering innovative therapeutic approaches and creating advanced diagnostic tools aimed in HTLV-1 treatment .
BACKGROUND : The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) supplies critical metabolites that support cancer cell survival and progression . Adipocytes support tumor progression by secreting free fatty acids ( FFAs ) and adipokines ; however , the role and mechanisms underlying lipid droplet ( LD ) release from adipocytes remain elusive . METHODS : Using two nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) cell lines and primary human pre-adipocytes ( HPA ) , we evaluate the effect of LDs on cell growth , proliferation , colony formation , and migration . We also assess the roles of LD on the tumor progression in vivo . Using RNA-seq analysis , we elucidate the effect of hypoxic NPC cell-derived exosomes ( H-exo ) on the gene expression profile of adipocytes . By co-culture system , we investigated the effect of vacuolar protein sorting 4 homolog B ( VPS4B ) -annexin A5 ( ANXA5 ) interaction on adipocyte LD maturity and release . RESULTS : Herein , we report that LDs , rather than FFAs , are the primary lipid form transferred from adipocytes to NPC cells , enhancing cancer progression . NPC cells internalize LDs directly via macropinocytosis , while H-exo induces oxidative stress and membrane fluidity in adipocytes , leading to LD release . Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses reveal that VPS4B triggers LD release by interacting with ANXA5 , and low LKB1 in H-exo enhances VPS4B O-linked N-acetylglucosamine ( O-GlcNAc ) modification through the inhibition of serine/threonine kinase 11 ( STK11/LKB1 ) -AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) pathway and activation of the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway ( HBP ) flux . CONCLUSIONS : This study uncovers critical mechanisms of LD transfer in the TME , suggesting new therapeutic avenues in NPC .
BACKGROUND : E-cigs ( E-cigs ) use is increasing worldwide . Recent studies suggest that E-cigs contain harmful elements that could lead to adverse oral health outcomes . Therefore , the aim of this study was to evaluate the impact of E-cigs smoking on periodontal health among current male smokers in Al-Kharj city in Saudi Arabia by assessing periodontal parameters and proinflammatory cytokine levels . METHODS : Fifty-three male individuals ( 25 E-smokers and 28 non-smokers ) participated in the study . This study compared periodontal parameters , including the plaque index ( PI ) , bleeding on probing ( BOP ) , probing pocket depth ( PPD ) , clinical attachment loss ( CAL ) , and marginal bone loss ( MBL ) , as well as levels of unstimulated whole saliva ( UWS ) , interleukin IL-1B , and IL-6 , between E-smokers and non-smokers . RESULTS : The E-cigs users consumed approximately 6 +/- 22 puffs on average daily , with a nicotine content of approximately 2 +/- 23 mg on average . There was no statistically significant difference between the groups in terms of BOP and PI . A statistically significant difference was detected in PPD and CAL ( p < 05 ) between the two groups , in which the PPD ( 10 +/- 87 ) and CAL ( 72 +/- 89 ) were greater in E-smokers . The mean MBL was also higher among E-smokers , which was statistically significant ( p < 05 ) . The mean cytokine IL-1B level was found to be ( 75 +/- 78 ) among non-smokers and ( 05 +/- 56 ) among E-smokers , and this difference was statistically significant ( p < 05 ) . However , while IL-1B had shown a significant difference between groups in the bivariate analysis ( t-test ) , its association with E-cigs use became non-significant in the multivariate model ( OR = 01 , 95% CI : 00-02 , p = 194 ) . The mean IL-6 level among non-smokers was ( 49 +/- 90 ) and among E-smokers , it was ( 07 +/- 21 ) . And , this difference was not statistically significant ( p > 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : This study revealed that E-cigs smoking had a negative effect on periodontal status ( especially PPD , CAL and MBL ) . These results may contribute to the pathogenesis of periodontal diseases and tissue destruction . Efforts must be made to educate and create awareness among patients and the general community regarding the risks associated with E-cigs usage especially in young populations .
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is a growing public health concern linked to the increasing prevalence of metabolic syndrome , including obesity and type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) . MASLD remains a significant clinical challenge due to the absence of effective therapeutic interventions . Intermittent fasting ( IF ) has emerged as a promising non-pharmacological strategy for managing MASLD . Although the exact mechanisms underpinning the possible beneficial effects of IF on MASLD are not yet fully elucidated , the gut microbiota and its metabolic byproducts are increasingly recognized as potential mediators of these effects . The gut-liver axis may act as an important conduit through which IF exerts its beneficial influence on hepatic function . This review comprehensively examines the impact of various IF protocols on gut microbiota composition , investigating the resultant alterations in microbial diversity and metabolomic profiles , and their potential implications for liver health and the improvement of MASLD .
BACKGROUND : Sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 3 ( S1PR3 ) has been implicated in promoting tumor progression in various cancers . However , the role and molecular mechanisms of S1PR3 in oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) remain poorly understood . The aims of this study were to investigate the function of S1PR3 in OSCC progression and its potential as a therapeutic target . METHOD : The expression of S1PR3 was determined through qPCR , Western blotting analysis , immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) , and the TCGA database . The correlation between S1PR3 expression and clinical prognosis was analyzed using the TCGA database and IHC . The effects of S1PR3 on OSCC cell proliferation and cell cycle were investigated through CCK-8 assay , colony formation assay , EdU incorporation assay , cell cycle analysis , and a xenograft mouse model . The potential mechanisms through which S1PR3 affects the OSCC cell cycle were explored using RNA-seq and a cell cycle array . The effects of combining S1PR3 antagonist with cisplatin on OSCC cell growth were examined through CCK-8 and EdU incorporation assays . RESULTS : S1PR3 was overexpressed in OSCC and the upregulation of S1PR3 in OSCC was correlated with unfavorable clinicopathological characteristics and adverse prognosis . Targeting S1PR3 reduced AKT phosphorylation , which led to a downregulation of WEE1 , a kinase involved in cell cycle regulation . This downregulation resulted in reducing CDC2 phosphorylation , disrupting the G2/M cell cycle checkpoint and inhibiting OSCC cell proliferation . Furthermore , the combination of S1PR3 antagonist exhibited synergistic inhibitory effects on OSCC cell growth when combined with cisplatin . CONCLUSIONS : These findings reveal a critical role for S1PR3 in regulating OSCC cell cycle via the AKT/WEE1/CDC2 pathway , thus offering a basis for developing treatment strategies for OSCC patients .
Neutrophils are readily activated immune cells after ischemic stroke in mice and patients . Still , the impact of gut microbiota on neutrophil activation and its influence on inflammatory brain injury remain undefined . We report that natural microbiota colonization of germ-free ( GF ) mice induces substantial neutrophil activation and deteriorates stroke pathology . The colonized Ex-GF stroke mice had considerably larger infarct sizes and higher sensorimotor deficits than GF littermates . Furthermore , employing an antibiotic-based mouse model of microbiota deficiency , we demonstrate that gut microbiota depletion induces a juvenile neutrophil phenotype characterized by the upregulation of resting state surface receptors , reduced inflammatory proteins , and levels of circulating NETs . This disarming of neutrophil responses was associated with decreased expression of brain inflammatory genes , vascular thrombus formation , reduced infarct size , and alleviated behavioral deficits . We conclude that gut microbes strongly influence neutrophil activation after stroke and thus directly contribute to stroke severity .
BACKGROUND : Antiphospholipid syndrome ( APS ) is an autoimmune disease primarily manifested by recurrent thrombosis and pregnancy-related complications . The migration and invasion abilities of trophoblast cells play a crucial role in maintaining normal pregnancy . It is now increasingly recognized that adverse pregnancy outcomes in APS are associated with the disruption of trophoblast function by aPL ( antiphospholipid antibodies ) , rather than thrombotic occlusion of the placental vasculature . Therefore , this article aimed to explore the potential mechanisms by which aPL affect trophoblast cell function . METHOD : An APS cell model was established in the HTR-8 trophoblast cell line , followed by RNA sequencing to identify key genes involved in trophoblast cell function . To explore the underlying mechanisms , we employed quantitative real-time PCR , Western blotting , immunohistochemistry , ELISA , plasmid transfection and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis . Functional assays , including migration and invasion tests , were conducted to evaluate trophoblast cell ability . Clinical samples were collected , and the expression levels of target molecules in serum were quantified using ELISA . Additionally , an APS animal pregnancy model was developed to assess pregnancy loss rates and analyze the expression of specific target genes in the placenta . RESULTS : Sequencing analysis revealed significant downregulation of MMP1 in the APS model , confirmed by qPCR and Western blotting . Correspondingly , migration and invasion of HTR-8 cells were impaired in the APS group , but MMP1 overexpression restored trophoblast cell function . Serum MMP1 levels were lower in APS patients than in controls . In the animal pregnancy model , the APS group exhibited higher pregnancy loss , with placental immunohistochemistry confirming decreased MMP1 expression . KEGG enrichment analysis of differentially expressed genes between the NC and APS groups revealed a significant difference in the MAPK pathway , with P-JNK showing the most notable reduction . C-Jun , a downstream regulator of JNK , also decreased and modulated MMP1 expression . Notably , Anisomycin treatment increased P-C-Jun , upregulated MMP1 , and enhanced trophoblast migration and invasion . CONCLUSION : APL downregulated MMP1 expression by suppressing the JNK/C-Jun signaling pathway in trophoblast cells , thereby reducing their migratory and invasive capabilities . This represent a potential pathogenic mechanism contributing to adverse pregnancy outcomes in APS patients , highlighting possible therapeutic targets for intervention in APS management .
BACKGROUND : Bone marrow adipose tissue ( BMAT ) plays an essential role in skeletal health and systemic metabolism , particularly under conditions of ageing and osteoporosis . Despite increasing recognition of BMAT as an active endocrine organ , the molecular mechanisms underlying its formation and expansion remain incompletely understood . METHODS : We conducted a transcriptomic re-analysis of publicly available datasets focused on the adipogenic differentiation of bone marrow stromal cells ( BMSCs ) . Differential gene expression and pathway enrichment analyses were performed to identify key molecular changes . Validation was conducted at both the transcript and protein levels . Furthermore , re-analysis of single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) data was employed to determine the cell type-specific expression of candidate genes within the bone marrow . Functional assays using RNA interference were carried out to investigate the role of glutathione peroxidase 3 ( GPx3 ) in adipogenesis . RESULTS : Our analysis revealed a consistent activation of oxidative stress-related pathways during adipogenic differentiation . Among the upregulated antioxidant enzymes , GPx3 was selectively increased during adipogenic-but not osteogenic-differentiation . This pattern was validated at both mRNA and protein levels in vitro . scRNA-seq analysis showed that GPx3 expression is predominantly localized in BMSCs and adipocytes , with reduced expression observed in aged mice , corresponding to elevated levels of adipocyte-related genes . In vitro functional experiments demonstrated that GPx3 knockdown significantly promoted adipogenic differentiation of BMSCs . CONCLUSION : These findings indicate that GPx3 is closely associated with adipocyte lineage commitment within the bone marrow microenvironment and may serve as a key modulator of BMSC fate . This study underscores the potential role of antioxidant enzymes such as GPx3 in the regulation of age-related bone-fat imbalance and highlights their relevance in metabolic bone disorders .
BACKGROUND : Obesity is highly overrepresented in patients with psoriatic arthritis ( PsA ) and associated with increased disease activity and inferior treatment outcome . We have previously reported in 41 patients with PsA and body mass index ( BMI ) >/= 33 kg/m that weight loss treatment with Very Low Energy Diet ( VLED ) resulted in a median weight loss of 18 , 6% and concomitantly a significant improvement in C-reactive protein ( CRP ) and disease activity at six months ( M6 ) . This sub-study analyzes the effects on serum biomarkers associated with inflammation , bone and cartilage metabolism in the same PsA patients and matched controls . METHODS : Patients and controls received VLED treatment ( 640 kcal/day ) during 12-16 weeks depending on baseline ( BL ) BMI < 40 or >/= 40 kg/m , followed by an energy restricted diet . Serum was collected at BL and M6 , and biomarkers were measured with Magnetic Luminex ( ( R ) ) Assays and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) . Nonparametric statistics and paired comparison tests were used . RESULTS : In the PsA patients , the following proteins were significantly reduced at M6 as compared to BL : hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) ( median ( first-third quartile ) 9 ( 3-6 ) pg/mL vs . 3 ( 9-0 ) pg/mL , p < 01 ) , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) ( 6 ( 9-5 ) pg/mL vs . 6 ( 1-3 ) pg/mL , p = 01 ) , B-cell activating factor ( BAFF ) ( 4 ( 4-3 ) pg/mL vs . 6 ( 2-5 ) pg/mL , p = 01 ) and cartilage oligomeric matrix protein ( COMP ) ( 1 ( 9-0 ) ng/mL vs . 0 ( 0-0 ) ng/mL , p < 01 ) , whereas carboxyterminal telopeptide of type-1 collagen ( CTX-1 ) was significantly increased ( 0 ( 0-5 ) pg/mL vs . 0 ( 0-0 ) pg/mL , p < 01 ) . Similar results were found in the control group . CONCLUSIONS : Weight loss was associated with reduced levels of serum biomarkers related to inflammation and cartilage degradation , and increased biomarkers for bone resorption . The study supports the strong relationship between obesity , inflammation , bone and cartilage metabolism , identifying BMI as a possible confounder for biomarker levels . TRIAL REGISTRATION : ClinicalTrials . gov identifier : NCT02917434 , registered on September 21 , 2016 , retrospectively registered .
BACKGROUND : Incorporation of gene expression when estimating polygenic risk scores ( PRS ) in atopic dermatitis ( AD ) may provide additional insights in disease pathogenesis and enhance predictive accuracy . In this study , we developed polygenic transcriptome risk scores ( PTRSs ) derived from AD-enriched tissues and evaluated their performance against traditional PRS models and a baseline risk model incorporating eosinophil and lymphocyte counts in the prediction of AD . METHODS : We conducted transcriptome-wide association studies ( TWAS ) using the PrediXcan framework to construct tissue-specific PTRSs . Risk score performance was assessed in 256 , 888 Europeans ( 10 , 816 cases ) and validated in an independent cohort of 64 , 152 Europeans ( 2669 cases ) from the UK Biobank . RESULTS : We observed a modest correlation between PRS and PTRS , exerting independent effects on AD risk . While PRS demonstrated superior predictive performance compared to single-tissue PTRSs , combining both models significantly enhanced prediction accuracy , yielding a c-statistic of 646 ( 95% confidence intervals : 634-656 ) . Notably , tissue-specific PTRSs revealed stronger associations with baseline risk factors , where Eppstein-Bar virus ( EBV ) -transformed lymphocytes and unexposed skin PTRSs tissues reported positive associations with lymphocyte counts . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings highlight the value of integrating transcriptome-based risk models to incorporating additional omics layer to refine risk prediction and enhance our understanding of genetic architecture of complex traits .
BACKGROUND : Levels of the human cationic antimicrobial host defence peptide LL-37 are enhanced in the lungs during neutrophilic airway inflammation . LL-37 drives Th17 differentiation , and Th17 cells produce IL-17A and IL-17F which form the biologically active heterodimer IL-17A/F . While IL-17 is a critical mediator of neutrophilic airway inflammation , LL-37 exhibits contradictory functions ; LL-37 can both promote and mitigate neutrophil recruitment depending on the inflammatory milieu . The impact of LL-37 on IL-17-induced responses in the context of airway inflammation remains largely unknown . Therefore , we examined signaling intermediates and downstream responses mediated by the interplay of IL-17A/F and LL-37 in human bronchial epithelial cells ( HBEC ) . As LL-37 can become citrullinated during airway inflammation , we also examined LL-37-mediated downstream responses compared to that with citrullinated LL-37 ( citLL-37 ) in HBEC . RESULTS : Using an aptamer-based proteomics approach , we identified proteins that are altered in response to IL-17A/F in HBEC . Proteins enhanced in response to IL-17A/F were primarily neutrophil chemoattractants , including chemokines and proteins associated with neutrophil migration such as lipocalin-2 ( LCN-2 ) . We showed that selective depletion of LCN-2 mitigates neutrophil migration , functionally demonstrating LCN-2 as a critical neutrophil chemoattractant . We further demonstrated that LL-37 and citLL-37 selectively suppress IL-17A/F-induced LCN-2 abundance in HBEC . Mechanistic studies revealed that LL-37 and citLL-37 suppresses IL-17 A/F-mediated enhancement of C/EBPbeta , a transcription factor required for LCN-2 production . In contrast , LL-37 and citLL-37 enhance the abundance of ribonuclease Regnase-1 , which is a negative regulator of IL-17 and LCN-2 in HBEC . In an animal model of allergen-challenged airway inflammation with elevated IL-17A/F and neutrophil elastase in the lungs , we demonstrated that CRAMP ( mouse orthologue of LL-37 ) negatively correlates with LCN- CONCLUSIONS : Overall , our findings showed that LL-37 and citLL-37 can selectively suppress the abundance of IL-17A/F-mediated LCN-2 , a protein that is critical for neutrophil migration in HBEC . These results suggest that LL-37 , and its modified citrullinated form , have the potential to negatively regulate IL-17-mediated neutrophil migration during airway inflammation . To our knowledge , this is the first study to report that the immunomodulatory function of LL-37 enhances the RNA binding protein Regnase-1 , suggesting that a post-transcriptional mechanism of action is mediated by the peptide .
Artemisinin is a sesquiterpene lactone extracted from the medicinal plant Artemisia annua L . ( sweet wormwood ) . It has traditionally been utilized in artemisinin-based combination therapies ( ACTs ) for the malarial parasite , including drug-resistant strains . Natural artemisinin extraction is costly with low yields . Due to its effectiveness , there is a significant rise in the demand for artemisinin production . In vitro cell suspension culture offers a cost-effective and viable technique for artemisinin production . Therefore , this study aimed to optimize a protocol for cell suspension culture of A . annua L . to enhance biomass and artemisinin production . A successful cell suspension culture was initiated from induced callus . The highest cell biomass was obtained in suspension cultures grown with an initial inoculum size of 1 g of mixed type cell aggregates , in media with a pH of 2 and a rotation speed of 90 rpm . Macronutrient concentrations influenced both biomass and artemisinin content , with optimal biomass achieved at 19 mM KNO and 56 mM KHPO . The absence of these nutrients resulted in the highest artemisinin levels . Different LED wavelengths also significantly influenced biomass and artemisinin production . Red + blue LED increased cell biomass , while the highest artemisinin content was observed under red LED . The upscaling of the culture indicated a variation in biomass yield pattern , but the highest growth index was achieved in the 500 mL Erlenmeyer flask . This study successfully established a cell suspension culture for A . annua L . , demonstrating the influence of macronutrients and red LED on biomass and artemisinin production , providing insights for potential large-scale production .
BACKGROUND : Higher embryonic mortality , especially in aged breeding hens , is associated with insufficient hepatic functionality in maintaining redox homeostasis . Our previous study demonstrated that egg exosome-derived miRNAs may play a key role in modulating embryonic oxidation-reduction process , whereas the exact function and mechanism were still poorly understood . The present study aimed to investigate the roles of egg exosome miRNAs in maintaining dynamic equilibrium of free radicals and peroxide agents in embryonic liver , as well as demonstrate the specific mechanism using oxidative stress-challenged hepatocytes . RESULTS : Compared to 36-week-old breeding hens , decreased hatchability and increased embryonic mortality were observed in 65-week-old breeding hens . Meanwhile , the older group showed the increased MDA levels and decreased SOD and GSH-Px activities in embryonic liver , muscle and serum . Embryonic mortality was significantly positively correlated with MDA level and negatively correlated with GSH-Px activity in embryonic liver . In addition , 363 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified in embryonic liver , 13 differentially expressed miRNAs ( DE-miRNAs ) were identified in egg exosomes . These DEGs and DE-miRNAs were involved in oxidoreductase activity , glutathione metabolic process , MAPK signaling pathway , apoptosis and autophagy . miRNA-mRNA network analysis further found that DEGs targeted by DE-miRNAs were mainly enriched in programmed cell death , such as apoptosis and autophagy . Wherein , MAPK10 with highest MCC and AUC values was significantly related to GSH-Px activity and MDA level , and served as the target gene of miR-145-5p based on dual luciferase reporter experiment and correlation analysis . Bioinformatics analysis found that miR-145-5p/MAPK10 axis might alleviate peroxide generation and apoptosis . In primary hepatocytes of chick embryos , miR-145-5p transfection significantly reversed HO-induced mitochondrial ROS increase , MAPK10 , BAX and CASP3 overexpression and excessive apoptosis . CONCLUSION : Exosome miR-145-5p in eggs could target MAPK10 and decrease mitochondrial ROS , attenuating oxidative damage and apoptosis in hepatocytes of chick embryos . These findings may provide new theoretical basis for the improvement of maternal physiological status to maintain embryonic redox homeostasis by nutritional or genetic modifications .
BACKGROUND : Injectable platelet-rich fibrin ( I-PRF ) is an autologous fibrin matrix rich in leucocytes , platelets and growth factors , and could serve as a sustained-release vehicle for a variety of active biomolecules . The aim of the current randomized controlled trial was to compare the effect of vitamin C ( VitC ) with I-PRF as a locally delivered adjunct to professional mechanical plaque removal ( PMPR ) versus PMPR with local delivery of I-PRF or PMPR alone on non-surgical periodontal treatment ( NSPT ) outcomes of stage-II periodontitis . METHODOLOGY : Forty-five patients ( n = 45 ) diagnosed with stage-II grade A periodontitis were randomly assigned into test ( PMPR + I-PRF/VitC ; n = 15 ) or control groups ( PMPR + I-PRF ; n = 15 and PMPR ; n = 15 ) . Bleeding on probing ( BOP ; primary outcome ) , probing depth ( PD ) , clinical attachment level ( CAL ) , gingival margin ( GM ) , plaque index ( PI ) and radiographic bone gain/loss ( horizontal , vertical and total ) were assessed at baseline , three- and six-months post-treatment . Post-operative pain was further assessed at second- and third-day post-treatment . RESULTS : Although BOP scores were lower in the PMPR + I-PRF/VitC group , the regression analysis revealed that gender was the only significant predictor for BOP , with females showing a reduced propensity ( p < 05 ) . Clinical and radiographic parameters significantly improved in all groups independently ( p < 05 ) . PD-reduction was 73 +/- 59 mm , 67 +/- 49 mm and 73 +/- 59 mm , CAL-change was 33 +/- 49 mm , 20 +/- 56 mm and 93 +/- 59 mm and GM-change was 40 +/- 51 mm , 33 +/- 49 mm and 73 +/- 70 mm in the PMPR + I-PRF/VitC , PMPR + I-PRF and PMPR groups respectively . No intergroup differences were notable regarding BOP or changes in PD , CAL , GM , PI and radiographic bone measurements at three or six months relative to baseline ( p > 05 ) . Significantly lower pain scores at two and three days were notable in the PMPR + I-PRF/VitC and PMPR + I-PRF groups compared to the PMPR group ( p < 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Apart from a positive effect on the patients ' post operative pain perception , I-PRF with or without the addition of vitamin C does not additionally improve the clinical outcomes of PMPR alone in the NSPT of stage-II grade A periodontitis patients . TRIAL REGISTRATION : Trial registration . The study was retrospectively registered in the US National Institutes of Health Clinical Trials Registry ( NCT05129267 ) on 2021-11-
BACKGROUND : Pancreatic cancer is one of the most difficult to treat neoplasias . Because of that , the prognosis of the disease is dismal , and identification of novel therapeutic approaches is needed . This study investigates the role of transforming growth factor-alpha ( TGFalpha ) in pancreatic cancer and its potential as a therapeutic target . METHODS : Using in silico platforms , it was confirmed that TGFA , the gene encoding TGFalpha , is significantly overexpressed in pancreatic adenocarcinomas relative to normal pancreatic tissues . In patient-derived xenografts as well as in pancreatic cancer cell lines , multiple molecular forms of TGFalpha were identified , including the transmembrane TGFalpha precursor ( proTGFalpha ) and the soluble 6 kDa mature form . Functional assays using RNA interference and CRISPR/Cas9 demonstrated that TGFA knockdown significantly impaired cell proliferation , reinforcing the critical role of TGFalpha in driving tumor growth . The therapeutic potential of targeting TGFalpha was evaluated through the development of two monoclonal antibodies ( 5F1 and 16B10 ) specific for TGFalpha . RESULTS : These antibodies effectively bound to proTGFalpha-expressing cells , with minimal off-target effects in TGFA-knockout cell lines . When conjugated to cytotoxic agents such as MMAF , the resulting antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) exhibited potent antiproliferative activity , significantly reducing the viability of TGFalpha-expressing pancreatic cancer cells . Mechanistic studies revealed that MMAF-loaded ADCs induced G2/M cell cycle arrest , with markers of mitotic disruption evident in treated cells . In vivo , the TGFalpha-targeting ADCs elicited substantial tumor regression in murine models of pancreatic cancer , whereas the unconjugated antibodies merely stabilized tumor growth . CONCLUSIONS : These findings highlight TGFalpha as a promising therapeutic target in pancreatic cancer , supporting further preclinical and clinical development of TGFalpha-directed ADCs .
BACKGROUND : Tumour-stroma ratio ( TSR ) is the proportion of tumour cells relative to surrounding stroma . This study aimed to investigate the prognostic impact of TSR , and to construct a prognostic nomogram in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) . METHODS : Clinico-pathological data of 206 patients treated at Guangzhou Institute of Cancer Research , the Affiliated Cancer Hospital , Guangzhou Medical University for NPC were used as the training cohort . Assessment of TSR was performed on haematoxylin and eosin-stained slides and the correlation of TSR with survival outcomes was examined . A nomogram model comprising TSR was established and the clinical performance was evaluated by concordance index ( C-index ) , calibration curve , time-dependent area under the curve ( tAUC ) , and decision curve analysis ( DCA ) . External validation was performed using cohort from Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center ( n = 343 ) . RESULTS : High stroma ratio was proved to be an adverse prognostic factor for OS . A prognostic model integrating T stage , N stage and TSR for individual prediction of survival was constructed and graphically represented as a nomogram . Calibration curves indicated good agreement between the nomogram and actual observations . Moreover , the nomogram outperformed the commonly used staging systems . In addition , the nomogram could successfully classified patients into three different risk groups . The external validation cohort supported these findings . CONCLUSIONS : TSR is a strong and independent prognostic factor for NPC patients . A nomogram that integrated T stage , N stage and TSR could serve as a precise and convenient model of risk stratification in predicting the prognosis of patients with NPC .
Lung cancer ( LC ) is one of the most common malignant tumors globally . Non-SMC condensin II complex subunit D3 ( NCAPD3 ) has been involved in the progression of many kinds of tumors . However , the effects of NCAPD3 in LC remain unclear . NCAPD3 expression was investigated by the Ualcan database and using Western blot . The effect of NCAPD3 on prognosis was explored via the Kaplan-Meier plotter database . Cell viability , colony formation , apoptosis , and Transwell assays , and in vivo tumorigenesis were performed to reveal the biological roles of NCAPD Glycolysis was assessed via measurement of glucose consumption , extracellular acidification rate ( ECAR ) , lactate production , and ATP levels . The deeper mechanisms of NCAPD3 were investigated by Western blot and rescue experiments . Upregulation of NCAPD3 levels in LC tissues was found in Ualcan and significantly associated with poor prognosis . The expression of NCAPD3 was up-regulated in LC cell lines compared to BEAS-2B cells . Knockdown and overexpression experiments suggested that proliferation , apoptosis , migration , invasion , and glycolysis were regulated by NCAPD3 via the MEK/ERK/LDHA pathway . Additionally , NCAPD3 knockdown inhibited tumor growth in vivo . Mechanistically , NCAPD3 overexpression-mediated activation of the MEK/ERK/LDHA pathway and proliferation , Glucose uptake , and glycolysis were attenuated by MEK inhibitor U Also , histone lactylation helps in tumorigenesis by promoting NCAPD3 expression . Taken together , our results revealed that histone lactylation of NCAPD3 promoted proliferation , migration , invasion , and glycolysis through modulating the MEK/ERK/LDHA signaling pathway in LC , which highlights a novel understanding of NCAPD3 in LC .
Neuroinflammation plays a complex and context-dependent role in many neurodegenerative diseases . We identified a key pathogenic function of macrophages in a mouse model of a rare human congenital neuropathy in which SARM1 , the central executioner of axon degeneration , is activated by hypomorphic mutations in the axon survival factor NMNAT Macrophage depletion blocked and reversed neuropathic phenotypes in this sarmopathy model , revealing SARM1-dependent neuroimmune mechanisms as key drivers of disease pathogenesis . In this study , we investigated the impact of chronic subacute SARM1 activation on the peripheral nerve milieu using single cell/nucleus RNA-sequencing ( sc/snRNA-seq ) . Our analyses reveal an expansion of immune cells ( macrophages and T lymphocytes ) and repair Schwann cells , as well as significant transcriptional alterations to a wide range of nerve-resident cell types . Notably , endoneurial fibroblasts show increased expression of chemokines ( Ccl9 , Cxcl5 ) and complement components ( C3 , C4b , C6 ) in response to chronic SARM1 activation , indicating enhanced immune cell recruitment and immune response regulation by non-immune nerve-resident cells . Analysis of CD45 ( + ) immune cells in sciatic nerves revealed an expansion of an Il1b ( + ) macrophage subpopulation with increased expression of markers associated with phagocytosis and T cell activation/proliferation . We also found a significant increase in T cells in sarmopathic nerves . Remarkably , T cell depletion rescued motor phenotypes in the sarmopathy model . These findings delineate the significant changes chronic SARM1 activation induces in peripheral nerves and highlights the potential of immunomodulatory therapies for SARM1-dependent peripheral neurodegenerative disease .
Fragmentomics features of cell-free DNA represent promising non-invasive biomarkers for cancer diagnosis . A lack of systematic evaluation of biases in feature quantification hinders the adoption of such applications . We compare features derived from whole-genome sequencing of ten healthy donors using nine library kits and ten data-processing routes and validated in 1182 plasma samples from published studies . Our results clarify the variations from library preparation and feature quantification methods . We design the Trim Align Pipeline and cfDNAPro R package as unified interfaces for data pre-processing , feature extraction , and visualization to standardize multi-modal feature engineering and integration for machine learning .
Epigenetic regulation , including DNA methylation and histone modifications , play a pivotal role in shaping T cell functionality throughout life . With aging , these epigenetic changes profoundly affect gene expression , altering T cell plasticity , activation , and differentiation . These modifications contribute significantly to immunosenescence , increasing susceptibility to infections , cancer , and autoimmune diseases . In CD8 ( + ) T cells , chromatin closure at key regulatory regions suppresses activation and migration , while chromatin opening in pro-inflammatory gene loci amplifies inflammation . These changes drive terminal differentiation , characterized by increased expression of senescence-associated markers , impaired migration and loss of epigenetic plasticity . CD4 ( + ) T cells experience fewer but critical epigenetic alterations , including disrupted pathways , a skewed Th1/Th2 balance , and reduced Treg functionality . These epigenetic changes , compounded by metabolic dysfunctions , such as mitochondrial deficiency and oxidative stress , impair T-cell adaptability and resilience in the aging organism . Therefore , understanding the interplay between epigenetic and metabolic factors in T cell aging offers promising therapeutic opportunities to mitigate immunosenescence and enhance immune function in aging populations . This review explores the interplay between DNA methylation , histone alterations , and metabolic changes underlying T cell aging .
BACKGROUND : Leptomeningeal metastasis in EGFR-mutant ( EGFRm ) non-small-cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) is a severe complication particularly prevalent in patients who have previously been treated with EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( EGFR-TKIs ) . However , an optimal treatment strategy for dealing with leptomeningeal metastases in patients with NSCLC has yet to be developed . High-dose EGFR-TKIs in combination with intrathecal chemotherapy may offer a promising treatment strategy for this patient population . METHODS : We retrospectively identified patients with EGFRm NSCLC who were diagnosed at the First Affiliated Hospital of Gannan Medical University between January 1 , 2018 , and December 31 , All patients developed leptomeningeal metastases after EGFR-TKI treatment and then received intrathecal pemetrexed chemotherapy in combination with high-dose third-generation EGFR-TKIs ( osimertinib 160 mg/day , furmonertinib 160 mg/day , or aumolertinib 165 mg/day ) , with or without other therapies . Intracranial response , intracranial progression-free survival , overall survival , and safety were evaluated . RESULTS : Twenty-three patients were enrolled . The median follow-up was 20 months ( range , 2-35 ) . The median number of intrathecal pemetrexed injections was 4 ( range , 2-26 ) . The intracranial symptom relief rate was 3% ( 21/23 ) , intracranial disease control rate was 96% ( 20/23 ) , median intracranial progression-free survival was 10 months ( 95% CI , 52-48 ) , and median overall survival was 12 months ( 95% CI , 43-57 ) . The most frequent adverse event was myelosuppression ( n = 10 , 48% ) , which was limited to grade 1 or Two grade 3 adverse events were observed , including one case of interstitial pneumonia and one case of diarrhea . Univariate and multivariate analyses demonstrated that the combination of bevacizumab and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of </= 1 were favorable prognostic factors for survival . CONCLUSIONS : High-dose third-generation EGFR-TKIs combined with pemetrexed intrathecal chemotherapy demonstrated a high rate of intracranial symptom relief and manageable safety in patients with EGFRm NSCLC who developed leptomeningeal metastases after previous EGFR-TKI therapy .
BACKGROUND : The 2023 Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease ( GOLD ) document proposed the COPD-A subtype as a condition of COPD with asthma . We examined the characteristics of COPD-A patients and analyzed them according to smoking history and inhaled corticosteroid ( ICS ) use . METHODS : Patients in the COPD cohort with a history of asthma were included . The patients were divided into two groups according to their smoking history ( < 10 vs . >/=10 pack-years ) and their clinical characteristics were compared . The association between patients ' ICS use and the occurrence for exacerbations during 1 year follow-up period was analyzed . RESULTS : Of the 970 patients included in the analysis , the group with a smoking history less than 10 pack-years ( n = 158 ) had a significantly higher BMI , FEV ( % ) , FEV/FVC ( % ) , DLco , ESR , and prevalence of osteoporosis . Among 560 patients who were followed up for 1 year , the patients with ICS ( n = 274 ) had a higher exacerbation rate than without ICS ( n = 286 ) ( 54% vs . 1% , p = 018 ) . However , in multivariable analysis , ICS use was not significantly associated with exacerbation . In subgroup analysis of patients with blood eosinophil count >/= 300 cells/microl , ICS use showed a trend to reduce the risk for exacerbation ( IRR = 907 , p = 708 ) . In patients with blood eosinophil count < 300 cells/microl , ICS use significantly increased the risk for exacerbation ( IRR = 547 , p = 005 ) . CONCLUSIONS : COPD-A patients with a smoking history of less than 10 pack-years had better pulmonary function test results , BMI , ESR , and prevalence of osteoporosis . The use of ICS did not decrease exacerbations in COPD-A .
BACKGROUND : Advances in Pediatric Rheumatology are driven by mechanistic insights from basic and translational science . We have selected and reviewed the most impactful basic/translational science from our " Year in Review ( YIR ) " presentations from the 2024 Pediatric Rheumatology European Society and American College of Rheumatology Convergence meetings ( September and November 2024 , respectively ) . MAIN BODY : We drew from fundamental immunology , human genetics , animal models , and computational & " omic " manuscripts published in the year preceding these meetings . Avoiding overlap with other topics presented in this " Perspectives " series , summarized herein are the major themes we gleaned from that process . These include innovative concepts and tools to study immune health , new mechanistic insights into pediatric rheumatic diseases and novel therapeutic targets and treatment approaches in rheumatic disease . CONCLUSIONS : As part of a living relationship with the basic/translational literature that shapes our field and practice , we hope readers will be inspired to delve more deeply into the topics and manuscripts highlighted in this YIR summary .
BACKGROUND : Intravascular large B-cell lymphoma ( IVLBCL ) is a rare subtype of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma , predominantly affecting the elderly . The disease often involves multiple tissues and organs , leading to a wide range of nonspecific symptoms . Early detection is challenging due to the absence of prominent signs such as enlarged lymph nodes or significant blood and bone marrow abnormalities in the early stages . Moreover , biopsy specimens may be insufficient for accurate diagnosis , resulting in a high false-negative rate and delayed treatment initiation . CASE PRESENTATION : A 61-year-old male presented with a bilateral adrenal mass detected during routine examination . The patient had a history of diabetes , managed with regular antidiabetic medications and good blood sugar control for over a year . Symptoms included dizziness and mild bilateral flank discomfort . Imaging revealed patchy , soft tissue lesions in both adrenal glands on an upper abdominal CT scan . The larger lesion measured 71 x 37 mm on the left , and 51 x 31 mm on the right . Enhanced imaging showed mild to moderate enhancement , with neoplastic lesions or metastasis suspected . A CT-guided percutaneous biopsy was performed . Histopathological examination revealed large or medium-sized lymphoma-like cells localized to endothelial markers CD31 and CD34-positive lumen epithelium , with strong diffuse positivity for B-lymphocyte markers . The final diagnosis was IVLBCL . The patient was treated with rituximab combined with CHOP chemotherapy and discharged without significant symptoms . CONCLUSIONS : IVLBCL is often overlooked due to its varied and nonspecific clinical presentation , making early diagnosis difficult . The disease progresses rapidly and has a poor prognosis , with definitive diagnosis relying on pathological findings . Increased awareness of this rare lymphoma is crucial , particularly for diagnosing needle biopsy specimens in patients with mild symptoms and no distinct space-occupying lesions . Careful morphological examination , supported by targeted immunohistochemical staining ( for B-cell and endothelial markers ) , is essential for timely diagnosis .
BACKGROUND : Esophageal adenocarcinoma ( EAC ) is the sixth most deadly cancer worldwide , with increasing incidence in North America . As no targeted therapy or immunotherapy has revolutionized the management of EAC , chemotherapy is the only standard of care . Most patients with EAC experience poor outcomes because of the inherent or acquired resistance to chemotherapy . METHODS : Adapting a patient-centered approach , we leveraged a microfluidic cell culture technology platform ( Emulate ) , organoids derived from treatment-naive patient tumors or adjacent normal tissues , and patient-matched cancer-associated or normal fibroblasts respectively , to develop a novel , physiologically relevant , high-fidelity preclinical esophagus-on-a-chip model . H&E , immunofluorescence staining , live/dead assay , LDH assay , and ELISA-based detection of tumor biomarkers were used to assess treatment responses . RESULTS : Each patient-specific stroma-inclusive microfluidic esophageal adenocarcinoma on-a-chip ( EAC chip ) faithfully recreates the tumor-stroma interface while preserving the full diversity of two cell types ( epithelia and fibroblasts ) , genetic landscapes and histological architecture of the source tumors . EAC chips also accurately predict the response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( NACT ) within a clinically useful timeframe ( approx . 12 days ) . A docetaxel-based triplet chemotherapy regimen matched with the treatment of the source patient was successfully perfused through the interstitial space within this model . Therefore , EAC chips more accurately recapitulate inpatient pathological and objective responses than the corresponding static 3D-organoid-only cultures . CONCLUSIONS : Overall , this model is an effective tool for predicting patients ' responses to chemotherapy and testing tumor- or stroma-targeted alternative therapies . Moreover , these high-fidelity , low-throughput EAC chips effectively complement high-throughput PDO culture-based drug testing and provide improved insights into drug efficacy before human studies .
BACKGROUND : Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) presents significant therapeutic challenges , particularly in patients with advanced disease . Despite advancements in treatment , high recurrence rates and poor overall survival ( OS ) remain major concerns . This study evaluates the impact of tegafur-uracil ( UFUR ) maintenance therapy on survival outcomes in patients with advanced HNSCC following definitive chemoradiotherapy . METHODS : A cohort of 424 advanced HNSCC patients treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy were analyzed , with a median follow-up of 25 months . Patients were stratified into UFUR ( + ) and UFUR ( - ) groups , with baseline characteristics balanced across both arms . Oncologic outcomes , including recurrence-free survival ( RFS ) , OS , locoregional recurrence-free survival ( LRFS ) , and distant metastasis-free survival ( DMFS ) were compared between these groups . RESULTS : UFUR maintenance therapy significantly reduced recurrence rates ( 34% vs . 47% , p < 002 ) , driven primarily by improving locoregional control ( 23% vs . 37% , p < 001 ) . While distant metastasis rates were similar between groups , UFUR ( + ) patients demonstrated a markedly improved median OS ( 6 months vs . 3 months , p < 001 ) . The UFUR ( + ) group also showed superior median LRFS ( 9 months vs . 2 months , p = 003 ) and DMFS ( 0 months vs . 5 months , p = 010 ) . Subgroup analysis confirmed the benefits of UFUR maintenance across different stages of disease . Multivariate analysis identified UFUR maintenance , gender , and T stage as independent predictors of survival . CONCLUSION : UFUR maintenance therapy significantly improves survival outcomes in patients with advanced HNSCC following definitive chemoradiotherapy , particularly through enhanced locoregional control , and should be considered a key component of personalized treatment strategies .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) , which was formerly known as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) has become a global epidemic that is predicted to affect more than 50% of the world population by However , except for Resmetiron , there are no approved drugs in conventional medicine to treat MASLD . The aim of this study was to explore the hepatoprotective effects of the aqueous extracts ( AEs ) of Osbeckia octandra ( O . octandra ) , Vernonia cinerea ( V . cinerea ) , and Atalantia ceylanica ( A . ceylanica ) which have been extensively used to treat hepatic diseases in the Sri Lankan traditional medicine . METHODS : During initial in vitro experiments , aqueous extracts ( AEs ) of these three medicinal plants were prepared and evaluated for antioxidant potential using 2 , 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl ( DPPH ) assay and Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity ( TEAC ) assay . Cytotoxicity was assessed using the MTT assay on Vero cells to determine non-toxic doses for in vivo studies . For in vivo experiments , a high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced MASLD mouse model was used . After co-treating the mice with AEs of the tested medicinal plants , their body weight gain was evaluated . Serum ALT , cholesterol , and triglyceride levels were analyzed using standard chemical methods . Hepatic lipid aggregation was evaluated by histopathology . Expression of TNF-alpha , IL-6 , and PPAR-alpha genes was quantified using qRT-PCR . Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey ' s post hoc test or LSD test . The level of significance was ( p < 05 ) . RESULTS : Initial in vitro experiments revealed that AEs of these medicinal plants are rich sources of natural antioxidants with low cytotoxic effects . Subsequent in vivo experiments on the HFD-induced MASLD mouse model also demonstrated that AEs of these medicinal plants can ameliorate HFD-induced weight gain , dyslipidemia , and hepatic lipid aggregation . Reversal of downregulated PPAR-alpha gene expression confirmed their positive impact on lipid metabolism . Attenuation of increased serum ALT concentration provides evidence for their protective role against hepatic injury . In addition , these extracts could suppress the upregulation of TNF-alpha and IL-6 genes , which are crucial for inducing steatohepatitis . CONCLUSION : Aqueous extracts of O . octandra , V . cinerea , and A . ceylanica are rich in antioxidants and have the ability to suppress HFD-induced weight gain , dyslipidemias , hepatic steatosis , and hepatic inflammation providing solid evidence for their beneficial effects against initiation and progression of MASLD . Among these extracts , O . octandra stands out with the highest antioxidant activity , lowest cytotoxicity , and most promising hepatoprotective effects .
The transcriptome profiling for underpinning the role of key genes controlling formation of fiber in cultivated Gossypium barbadense compared to wild allotetraploid cotton Gossypium darwinii which remained less investigated . Owing to excellent fiber quality of both Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium darwinii and information obtained via Simple Sequence Repeat ( SSR ) markers , two lines : Xh-18 and darwinii 5-7 were selected for transcriptome sequencing during developmental stages i . e . , fiber initiation , elongation , and secondary cell wall ( SCW ) biosynthesis followed by 0 day after anthesis ( DPA ) , 5DPA , 10DPA , 15DPA and 25DPA , respectively . Twelve libraries of RNA-seq were generated and sequenced individually generating approximately 818 million clean reads of Gossypium darwinii . However , for Gossypium barbadense more than 844 million clean reads were recorded . The Pearson Correlation Coefficient ( PCC ) analysis results indicated that gene expressions for both Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium darwinii indicated more than 90% of the commonalities at the same stage of fiber growth . However , genes found among Gossypium darwinii at 5 , 6 and 7 DPA and XH-18 at 10 and 25 DPA were found disimilar . The expression quantity of RNA sequencing data , 31 genes were found common throughout all stages of DPAs in Gossypium darwinii 5-7 whereas , 377 genes were common in Gossypium barbadense XH-18 at 0 , 5 , 10 , 15 , 20 , and 25 DPA stages of fiber development . Three genes XLOC_080616 ( LTPG2_ARATH/ NLTL2_ARATH ; GPI-anchored 2 non-specific lipid transfer protein , similar to At2 g13820 ) , XLOC_065471 ( LPAT2_ARATH/LPAT2_BRAOL 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase2 ) , and XLOC_077416 ( uncharacterized protein ) shown up-regulated expression during 15 and 20 DPA for both Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium darwinii . It will also explore the possible role Gossypium barbadense DNA segment associated with development of fiber quality . Furthermore , this research will decipher the underlying process of fiber development and the possible role of genes for fiber formation in both Sea Island and wild cotton species .
BACKGROUND : tRNA-derived fragments ( tRFs ) have emerged as significant noncoding RNAs in cancer biology ; however , their roles and mechanisms in triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) remain inadequately characterized . METHODS : tRF and tiRNA sequencing , real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) , fluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ) , and subcellular fractionation were used to explore the expression and characteristic of tiRNA-Met in TNBC . The biological functions of tiRNA-Met were assessed using CCK-8 assays , colony formation assays , and Transwell assays in vitro , alongside mouse xenograft models in vivo . RNA pull-down , mass spectrum , RNA immunoprecipitation ( RIP ) , western blot , ubiquitination assays , RNA sequencing , actinomycin D assays , immunofluorescence , immunohistochemical staining , and rescue experiments were performed to explore the regulatory mechanisms of tiRNA-Met in TNBC . RESULTS : tiRNA-Met was an uncharacterized tRF that originated from mitochondrial tRNA ( Met-CAT ) and was primarily localized in the cytoplasm . Its expression was significantly downregulated in TNBC tumor tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues . Overexpression of tiRNA-Met markedly inhibited the proliferation , migration , and invasion of TNBC cells ; whereas , its reduced expression elicited opposite effects . In addition , tiRNA-Met overexpression suppressed TNBC cell growth in vivo . Mechanistically , tiRNA-Met directly interacted with the RNA recognition motif 2 ( RRM2 ) domain of small nuclear ribonucleoprotein A ( SNRPA ) , promoting SNRPA protein degradation via the ubiquitin/proteasome pathway . This interaction enhanced the stability of Ran-binding protein 3-like ( RANBP3L ) mRNA , resulting in increased RANBP3L expression and subsequent inhibition of the mTORC1/RPS6 signaling pathway . CONCLUSIONS : Our study identified tiRNA-Met as a novel anti-oncogenic tRF and elucidated its mechanism for inhibiting the malignancy of TNBC . tiRNA-Met directly bound to SNRPA , promoting its degradation and stabilizing RANBP3L mRNA , ultimately leading to the inhibition of the mTORC1 signaling pathway . These findings position tiRNA-Met as a promising candidate for diagnostic and therapeutic applications in TNBC .
The proper distribution of nutrients and metabolites between the mother and fetus is one important factor for successful pregnancy . As a bridge , the placenta plays a key role in sensing the nutritional needs of the fetus , coordinating the maternal nutrition supply , and enhancing its nutritional transport capabilities . Imperfect placental development can lead to pregnancy-related disorders such as preeclampsia , recurrent miscarriage , and/or fetal growth restriction , posing risks to both mother and child in the short and long term . However , current understanding of the human placenta remains as a " black box " , and its developmental control mechanisms for adaptive pregnant regulation still needs to be elucidated . As one form of post-translational modification ( PTM ) , ubiquitination plays an important role in regulating cellular functions and is regarded as a valuable drug target . Particularly , ubiquitination related to placenta development has been discovered in recent years . Placental development processes closely associated with pregnant complications , such as blastocyst implantation , syncytiotrophoblast cell differentiation , and immune barrier maintenance , have been reported to be affected by ubiquitination . However , the diagnosis and intervention of pregnancy diseases also urgently need to be improved . Thus , aiming to comprehensive summarize and further exploring the molecular mechanism , target and regulatory mechanism of pregnancy complications , we have herein reviewed genes and pathways regulating pregnancy progress and diseases and focusing on ubiquitin-related physiological process in placenta .
BACKGROUND : Intraocular lens ( IOL ) dislocations represent a serious complication of cataract surgery . In cases of isolated dislocation of a three-piece IOL , the dislocated IOL can be fixed in the ciliary sulcus . However , stability issues arise when the total haptic length does not match the ciliary sulcus distance or when zonular dehiscence causes the IOL to slip into the dehiscence site . Therefore , this study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of posterior optic capture ( POC ) for repositioning dislocated three-piece IOLs , with haptics fixated in the ciliary sulcus and the optic captured within a posterior capsular window . METHODS : The dislocated IOL was first refixed in the ciliary sulcus . A 25-gauge vitrectomy cutter was inserted through the corneal stab incision and positioned between the optic and posterior capsules to create a posterior capsular window with a 4-5 mm diameter . The optic was then pushed into the posterior capsular window and was captured . The surgical outcomes of 13 eyes from 13 patients who were followed for at least 12 months after surgery were retrospectively evaluated based on medical records . RESULTS : The mean time from IOL implantation to POC was 3 +/- 8 months . The mean postoperative follow-up period was 9 +/- 55 months . The mean surgical duration was 4 +/- 8 min . No intraoperative complications were observed . The postoperative best-corrected visual acuity improved or remained unchanged in all patients . The mean change in spherical equivalent before and after surgery was 60 +/- 65 D . The postoperative anterior chamber depth ( ACD ) was 29 +/- 34 mm , which was increased from the preoperative ACD of 86 +/- 48 mm ( p < 05 ) . The corneal endothelial cell density loss was 28 +/- 96% . Postoperatively , one patient experienced recurrent IOL dislocation due to enlargement of the zonular dehiscence . In all other cases , slit-lamp examination and anterior segment optical coherence tomography ( AS-OCT ) confirmed stable IOL positioning and maintained optic capture . At the final visit , IOL decentration and tilt calculated from AS-OCT were 35 +/- 22 mm and 68 +/- 52 degrees , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : POC is a minimally invasive and straightforward technique for intermediate-term fixation of dislocated three-piece IOLs .
BACKGROUND : Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 4 ( ITIH4 ) , a Type 2 acute phase protein , is critical for resolving inflammation and promoting tissue repair . While its role in chronic respiratory diseases is recognized , its effects on asthma remain unclear . This study investigated the effects of ITIH4 on the modulation of lung and gut microbiota , the attenuation of allergic inflammation , and the improvement of respiratory outcomes in an asthma mouse model . METHODS : Six-week-old male Balb/c mice were divided into five groups : control , ITIH4 , ovalbumin ( OVA ) , and two OVA + ITIH4 treatment groups at different doses . Lung function and oxygen saturation were measured , and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( BALF ) was analyzed for white blood cell counts and cytokines . Lung and gut microbiota were profiled using 16 S rRNA gene sequencing , and short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) were measured using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . Proteomic profiling of intestinal tissues was conducted to identify ITIH4-associated signaling pathways . RESULTS : ITIH4 administration significantly mitigated OVA-induced asthma symptoms by reducing weight loss , airway resistance , and tissue damping ( p < 05 ) . Histological analysis showed decreased airway wall thickening and lung injury scores ( p < 05 ) . ITIH4 also lowered BALF eosinophils and lymphocytes , IgE , and Th2 cytokines ( IL-4 , IL-5 , and IL-13 ) ( p < 05 ) . ITIH4 treatment modulated microbiome composition , enriching Gram-positive taxa ( Nocardioidaceae and Acholeplasmataceae ) and depleting Gram-negative Helicobacteraceae ( p < 05 ) . SCFAs correlated with microbiome alterations , notably reduced 4-methylpentanoic acid levels ( p < 05 ) . Proteomic analysis revealed a dose-dependent activation of granzyme A signaling and suppression of metabolic and solute transport pathways . CONCLUSIONS : ITIH4 ameliorates asthma symptoms by modulating lung and gut microbiota , dampening Th2-driven inflammation , and restoring mucosal immune balance . These findings support ITIH4 as a potential candidate for microbiome-targeted asthma therapy .
Numerous studies have demonstrated that extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) carry a variety of noncoding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) , which can be taken up by neighboring cells or transported to distant sites via bodily fluids , thereby facilitating intercellular communication and regulating multiple cellular functions . Within the tumor microenvironment , EV-ncRNA , on the one hand , regulate the expression of PD-L1 , thereby influencing tumor immune evasion , promoting tumor cell proliferation , and enhancing tumor growth , invasion , and metastasis in vivo . On the other hand , these specific EV-ncRNAs can also modulate the functions of immune cells ( such as CD8 + T cells , macrophages , and NK cells ) through various molecular mechanisms , inducing an immunosuppressive microenvironment and promoting resistance to anti-PD-1 therapy . Therefore , delving into the molecular mechanisms underlying EV-ncRNA regulation of immune checkpoints presents compelling therapeutic prospects for strategies that selectively target EV-ncRNAs . In this review , we elaborate on the cutting-edge research progress related to EV-ncRNAs in the context of cancer and dissect their pivotal roles in the PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint pathway . We also highlight the promising clinical applications of EV-ncRNAs in anti-PD-1/PD-L1 immunotherapy , bridging basic research with practical clinical applications .
BACKGROUND : Bladder cancer ( BCa ) , a prevalent malignancy of the urinary tract , is associated with high recurrence and mortality rates . SLC16A7 , a member of the solute carrier family 16 ( SLC16 ) , encodes monocarboxylate transporters that are involved in the proton-coupled transport of metabolites , including lactate , pyruvate , and ketone bodies , across cell membranes . Evidence suggests that SLC16A7 exhibits variable expression in cancers and may influence tumor development , progression , and immune regulation . This study examined the role of SLC16A7 in cancer prognosis , progression , and immune regulation , focusing on BCa . METHODS : A comprehensive analysis was conducted to evaluate the clinical and immunological relevance of SLC16A7 across multiple cancer types using data from 33 tumor datasets from ' The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . ' Associations between SLC16A7 expression and clinicopathological features , prognostic indicators , tumor mutation burden ( TMB ) , microsatellite instability ( MSI ) , immune cell infiltration , and immune-related gene expression were systematically analyzed . Experimental validation was performed to assess SLC16A7 expression in the BCa tissues and cell lines . The prognostic value of SLC16A7 was confirmed using clinical follow-up data from an independent patient cohort . Functional studies included proliferation assays to investigate the effect of SLC16A CD8 + T cells were obtained from the peripheral blood of healthy donors and stimulated using CD3 and CD28 antibodies in combination with recombinant IL- To investigate the immunological role of SLC16A7 , co-culture experiments were performed between BCa cells and activated CD8 + T cells . Additionally , CD8 + T cell chemotaxis assays and ELISA analyses were conducted to evaluate the immune responses mediated by SLC16A RESULTS : SLC16A7 expression was downregulated in 16 cancer types , including BCa , and upregulated in three cancer types . Its expression was significantly associated with tumor stage in four cancers and showed both positive and negative correlations with prognosis , depending on the cancer type . Genomic analyses revealed significant associations between SLC16A7 and TMB in 13 cancer types and MSI in 11 cancer types . Pathway enrichment analyses ( Hallmark-GSEA and KEGG-GSEA ) indicated strong associations between SLC16A7 , immune responses , and tumor progression . Immune infiltration analysis showed a predominantly positive association between SLC16A7 expression and immune cell infiltration , except in low-grade gliomas ( LGG ) . CIBERSORT analysis demonstrated that SLC16A7 expression correlated positively with resting memory CD4 T cells , eosinophils , monocytes , resting mast cells , and memory B cells and negatively with activated memory CD4 T cells , M1 macrophages , follicular helper T cells , M0 macrophages , and CD8 T cells . SLC16A7 expression was also significantly associated with the expression of immune-regulatory molecules . Experimental validation showed reduced SLC16A7 expression in BCa tissues and cell lines compared to that in their normal counterparts . Kaplan-Meier survival analysis indicated that higher SLC16A7 expression was correlated with better overall survival in patients with BCa . Functional assays revealed that SLC16A7 inhibited BCa cell progression and promoted the chemotaxis and tumor-killing ability of CD8 + T cells in the BCa tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . CONCLUSIONS : SLC16A7 exhibits tumor-suppressive properties , with downregulation in most cancers , and is associated with favorable prognosis and enhanced immune responses . SLC16A7 functions as a tumor suppressor in BCa and is associated with improved survival outcomes . These findings suggest that SLC16A7 is a potential biomarker for cancer diagnosis and prognosis .
BACKGROUND : The CRP-Albumin-Lymphocyte ( CALLY ) index , a novel inflammatory biomarker combining serum albumin , lymphocyte count , and C-reactive protein ( CRP ) , has been proposed for clinical use . This study aimed to investigate the association between CALLY index and Asthma-COPD Overlap ( ACO ) in the general US population . METHODS : We analyzed data from 6 , 797 participants aged >/= 40 years from the 2015-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) . Participants were categorized into quartiles based on natural logarithmic transformed ( ln ) CALLY index . ACO was defined as self-reported physician-diagnosed asthma and COPD . Logistic regression models were used to examine the association between ln CALLY and ACO , adjusting for potential confounders across three models . Generalized additive models , subgroup analyses , and receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis were also performed . RESULTS : The prevalence of ACO across the four CALLY quartiles was 56% , 89% , 54% , and 66% . In the fully adjusted model , for each 1-unit increase in ln CALLY , the risk of ACO decreased by 43% ( OR = 57 , 95% CI : 44-73 , P = 001 ) . Compared with Q1 , the risk of ACO in Q2 , Q3 , and Q4 was reduced by 63% ( OR = 37 ) , 66% ( OR = 34 ) , and 87% ( OR = 13 ) , respectively ( P for trend = 003 ) . Generalized additive models showed a non-linear negative relationship ( P < 001 ) . Subgroup analysis revealed that the association remained consistent across different sexes , age groups , races , smoking status , and disease statuses ( arthritis , DM , and hypertension ) . ROC curve analysis indicated moderate predictive ability of ln CALLY for ACO ( AUC = 675 , 95% CI : 636-714 ) , with an optimal cutoff value of 007 ( sensitivity 669 , specificity 598 ) . CONCLUSION : Higher CALLY index is independently associated with lower risk of ACO , suggesting its potential value as a biomarker for ACO risk assessment in clinical practice . By integrating inflammation , immune , and nutritional status evaluation , the CALLY index offers a novel perspective for early identification of high-risk individuals in clinical practice .
BACKGROUND : Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) involves systemic inflammation and is often accompanied by comorbidities . Blood eosinophil count ( BEC ) is a key marker of airway inflammation , used for patient stratification and treatment guidance . However , the association between BEC ( < 300 vs . >/= 300 cells/microL ) and pulmonary or extrapulmonary comorbidities in COPD remains unclear . METHODS : This study analyzed COPD patients from the 2013-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) . Weighted multivariable logistic regression models examined associations between BEC and comorbidities , adjusting for potential confounders . Associations were quantified using odds ratios ( ORs ) and 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) . RESULTS : A total of 614 COPD patients were included ( 395 with BEC < 300 cells/microL , 219 with BEC >/= 300 cells/microL ) . Patients with BEC >/= 300 cells/microL had a higher prevalence of extrapulmonary comorbidities than those with BEC < 300 cells/microL ( 35% vs . 48% ) . Adjusted analysis showed that BEC >/= 300 cells/microL was significantly associated with increased odds of any extrapulmonary comorbidity ( OR = 03 , 95% CI : 19-44 , p = 009 ) , congestive heart failure ( OR = 69 , 95% CI : 02-82 , p = 043 ) , and renal dysfunction ( OR = 95 , 95% CI : 01-79 , p = 048 ) , but not with pulmonary comorbidities . Sensitivity analyses using 3- and 4-level BEC categories revealed consistent trends , with higher BEC levels significantly associated with greater prevalence of at least one extrapulmonary comorbidity . CONCLUSIONS : In COPD , higher BEC ( >/= 300 cells/microL ) is significantly associated with extrapulmonary comorbidities , particularly congestive heart failure and renal dysfunction , but not pulmonary comorbidities .
BACKGROUND : Primary liver cancer is one of the most common fatal malignancies worldwide . Observational studies have shown that immune cells are closely linked to primary liver cancer , however , due to issues like reverse causality and confounding variables , the causal direction and extent of this association remain unclear . Thus , this study aimed to explore the potential causal association between immune cells and primary liver cancer , encompassing hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) and intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma ( ICC ) . METHODS : A two-sample mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis was performed using summary statistics from genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) of the 731 immune traits and primary liver cancer . The primary liver cancer dataset consisted of a total of 456 , 348 subjects , with 123 cases of HCC and 456 , 225 controls , as well as 104 cases of ICC and 456 , 244 controls , all of European ancestry . The primary method for assessing causality was inverse variance weighting ( IVW ) , with sensitivity analysis utilized for testing heterogeneity and pleiotropy . RESULTS : Two immunophenotypes were significantly associated with HCC risk : CD3 on CD45RA + CD4+ ( OR [95% CI] : 334 [077 to 651] , p = 008 ) , CD80 on monocyte ( OR [95% CI] : 578 [397 to 844] , p = 004 ) . Additionally , six immunophenotypes were identified to be significantly associated with the risk of ICC : SSC-A on NK ( OR [95% CI] : 685 [166 to 436] , p = 006 ) ; CD3 on CD28- CD8br : ( OR [95% CI] : 826 [206 to 766] , p = 004 ) ; CD45RA on naive CD4+ : ( OR [95% CI] : 391 [119 to 729] , p = 003 ) ; Resting Treg %CD4 : ( OR [95% CI] : 290 [069 to 558] , p = 008 ) ; HLA DR on HSC : ( OR [95% CI] : 539 [343 to 846] , p = 007 ) ; Plasmacytoid DC %DC : ( OR [95% CI] : 610 [462 to 806] , p < 001 ) . And sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of the main findings . CONCLUSIONS : MR analysis has revealed the causal relationship between immune cells and primary liver cancer through genetic methods . These findings could assist in clinical decision-making and provide new directions for the treatment and research of primary liver cancer .
BACKGROUND : Fatty liver disease ( FLD ) , characterized by hepatic lipid accumulation , impairs quality of life and can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma , imposing a healthcare burden . This study investigates the association between the aggregate index of systemic inflammation ( AISI ) and FLD prevalence , evaluating AISI ' s potential as an early biomarker for risk assessment . METHODS : Data were obtained from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) database , which encompasses the years 2017 through Participants were chosen based on the availability of controlled attenuation parameter ( CAP ) scores derived from transient elastography ( TE ) , a technique utilized for assessing liver steatosis . The formula employed to compute the AISI is as follows : AISI = N x P x M / L , where N , P , M , and L refer to neutrophils , platelets , monocytes , and lymphocytes , respectively . Additionally , demographic , socioeconomic , dietary , and health-related information was gathered . Logistic regression models were utilized to pinpoint risk factors associated with FLD , and a nomogram was created to forecast FLD risk . RESULTS : Of the 3 , 961 participants , 2 , 377 ( 0% ) were diagnosed with FLD based on a CAP score >/= 248 dB/m . Elevated AISI was significantly associated with FLD ( P = 021 ) . Other significant risk factors included sex , age , BMI , race , marital status , hypertension , and diabetes . The nomogram demonstrated excellent discriminatory performance with an AUC of 814 ( 95% CI : 800 , 827 ) and good calibration . CONCLUSION : This study reveals a significant , independent association between elevated AISI and increased FLD risk in the U . S . population , even after adjusting for confounders . AISI demonstrated good discriminative performance for FLD , but its effect size suggests it should supplement , not replace , existing clinical risk assessment tools . AISI , a cost-effective biomarker , holds potential for enhancing FLD screening , particularly in resource-limited settings .
Photovoltaic ( PV ) hydrogen production from seawater enables solar energy to be stored as hydrogen fuel ; highly active electrocatalysts for the oxygen evolution reaction ( OER ) are critical . The interplay between PV output and the OER performance is crucial for achieving cost-effective and efficient hydrogen production . Here , we detail the synthesis of transition metal oxide catalysts through a rapid electrodeposition technique . Notably , the CoFe/indium tin oxide ( ITO ) demonstrated superior OER activity in a simulated seawater environment , with an overpotential of merely 268 mV at 10 mA/cm . Unassisted perovskite PV hydrogen production coupled by tandem perovskite solar cells ( PSCs ) and CoFe/ITO//Pt water splitting cell achieved a peak operating current density of about 53 mA/cm and a solar to hydrogen efficiency of 18% . Furthermore , we meticulously crafted an extensive perovskite solar module framework for hydrogen production by scrutinizing the operational mechanisms of various active areas within the PSCs and the OER catalysts throughout the electrolytic process . A comprehensive techno-economic analysis has been conducted , which has unveiled that the levelized cost of hydrogen for the perovskite PV hydrogen production system was approximated at 17 $/kg . This finding provides both theoretical underpinning and practical direction for the advancement of solar hydrogen fuel production , underscoring its potential as a sustainable energy solution . FAU - Li , Yixian
The JAK family , particularly JAK3 , plays a crucial role in immune signaling and inflammatory responses . Dysregulated JAK3 activation in SARS-CoV-2 infections has been associated with severe inflammation and respiratory complications , making JAK inhibitors a viable therapeutic option . However , their use raises concerns regarding immunosuppression , which could increase susceptibility to secondary infections . While long-term adverse effects are less of a concern in acute COVID-19 treatment , patient selection and monitoring remain critical . Furthermore , adverse effects associated with oral JAK3 inhibitors necessitate the exploration of alternative strategies to optimize therapeutic efficacy while minimizing risks . This review highlights the role of JAK3 in immune and epithelial cells , examines the adverse effects of oral JAK3 inhibitors in COVID-19 and other treatments , and discusses alternative therapeutic strategies for improving patient outcomes .
BACKGROUND : To perform correlation analyses between the ultrasonographic characteristics of porta hepatis lymph nodes ( PHLNs ) and the pathological features of PHLNs and the liver in biliary atresia ( BA ) . METHODS : We analyzed the clinical ultrasonographic characteristics of PHLNs in 27 patients with BA , along with specific pathological features , including pathological size , the number of bile granules , the number of germinal centers , the proportion of lymphocytes , and the analysis of liver biopsy specimens . A series of correlation analyses were then performed between ultrasonography data , pathological features , and prognosis . RESULTS : The level of ultrasound echogenicity of PHLNs was positively correlated with the number of bile granules ( r = 377 , p = 004 ) , while ultrasound and pathological size were also positively correlated with the number of germinal centers ( r = 591 , p = 001 ; r = 459 , p = 016 , respectively ) . No significant correlations were detected between the stage of liver fibrosis and pathological features or postoperative jaundice ( all p > 05 ) . Different types of lymphocytes proliferating in the livers , and CD8 + cells were positively correlated with the pathological size of PHLNs ( r = 390 , p = 045 ; r = 424 , p = 028 , respectively ) , and the number of germinal centers ( r = 554 , p = 003 ; r = 482 , p = 011 , respectively ) . The ultrasonographic and pathological size of PHLNs were only positively correlated with the serum levels of direct bilirubin ( r = 431 , p = 025 ; r = 593 , p = 001 , respectively ) . Finally , the pathological size of PHLNs and the number of CD8 + cells in the liver were negatively correlated with the reduction of jaundice following Kasai portoenterostomy ( KPE ) surgery ( r=-385 , p = 047 ; r=-567 , p = 0411 ; r=-002 , p = 033 , respectively ) . CONCLUSIONS : Analyses demonstrated that the ultrasonographic features of PHLNs are significantly correlated with pathological features of PHLNs and the liver . In addition , the enlargement of PHLNs might represent a prognostic predictor following KPE surgery .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : The identification of affordable and easily accessible indicators to predict overall survival is important for tumor immunotherapy . Myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( MDSCs ) are a heterogeneous population of immature myeloid cells , which promote tumor immune escape in the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . This study aimed to determine whether peripheral blood MDSCs could determine their potential as predictors of survival in tumor patients with immunotherapy . METHODS : Flow cytometry was used to detect peripheral blood monocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( M-MDSCs ) and granulocytic myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( G-MDSCs ) in 126 patients . Multivariate Cox regression analysis was conducted to examine the associations between peripheral blood MDSCs and patient survival . The receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve determined the optimal cutoff value for peripheral blood MDSCs and grouped the indicators . The relationship between peripheral blood M-MDSCs and the prognosis and treatment outcome of tumor patients was explored . RESULTS : The proportion of peripheral blood M-MDSCs was associated with the prognosis of patients with tumors , as were tumor metastasis , the red blood cell count , absolute neutrophil count , absolute monocyte count , and BMI . Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that M-MDSCs , absolute lymphocyte value , and tumor metastasis were independent risk factors affecting the prognosis of patients with tumors . Detection of peripheral blood M-MDSCs obtained high sensitivity and specificity for tumor diagnosis . Patients with high M-MDSCs percentage demonstrated reduced survival durations and diminished responses to immunotherapy compared to those with low M-MDSCs percentage . CONCLUSIONS : Peripheral blood M-MDSCs may be used to predict overall survival and immunotherapy efficacy outcomes . This study provides a putative predictive biomarker for clinicians to choose from to predict tumor patients ' survival and the selection of receiving immunotherapy regimens .
Bacteria play a crucial role in human health and disease pathogenesis . In recent years , the therapeutic potential of probiotics has gained increasing attention , with studies suggesting their application in treating various diseases , including cancer . We evaluated clinical data supporting the use of oral and topical probiotics for skin malignancies by conducting a literature search in PubMed and Google Scholar . Although limited , clinical trials investigating probiotics in cancer prevention and treatment have shown promising results , particularly in controlling tumor progression and enhancing therapeutic outcomes . Emerging research suggests that probiotics may contribute to skin cancer prevention by modulating the gut and skin microbiomes , enhancing immune responses , exerting antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects , and inducing apoptosis . Given their antiproliferative and pro-apoptotic effects on carcinoma cells , probiotic-based therapies may serve as potential cancer-preventive agents and adjunctive treatments during conventional therapies . Key findings from our review highlight the ability of probiotics to influence cancer progression through immune regulation , apoptosis induction , and modulation of inflammatory pathways . However , further well-designed clinical trials are needed to validate these findings and establish probiotics as a viable therapeutic approach in oncology .
The skin is a complex organ composed of multiple layers and diverse cell types , including keratinocytes , fibroblasts , adipocytes , and sensory neurons , which maintain its structural and functional integrity together . Conventional in vitro and ex vivo models help investigate drug permeation and selected biological effects . However , they are limited in replicating neural interactions critical for assessing the efficacy of neuropeptide-based therapies . To address this limitation , a sensory neuron-integrated skin spheroid ( SS ) model was established , incorporating key skin cell types and providing a rapid , adaptable , and physiologically relevant platform for screening the biological activity of topical delivery systems targeting neuronal pathways . The model ' s responsiveness was demonstrated using acetyl hexapeptide-3 ( HEX-3 ) , a neuropeptide that inhibits acetylcholine release . HEX-3 was internalized by spheroid cells , with preferential accumulation around sensory neurons , confirming targeted cellular uptake . In parallel , ex vivo human skin studies confirmed that HEX-3 can traverse the stratum corneum and accumulate in deeper layers . Treatment with this film enhanced skin hydration , reduced scaling , and improved the structural organization of the stratum corneum after 48 h . Functional assays using the SS model showed that HEX-3 treatment suppressed acetylcholine release , upregulated the antioxidant enzyme SOD2 , and stimulated type I collagen synthesis . In aged skin samples , the application of HEX-3 significantly increased collagen levels . This effect was mirrored in the spheroid model , which reached collagen levels comparable to those of aged human skin upon treatment . These findings establish the SS model as a robust platform for evaluating the biological activity of neuropeptide-based topical therapies , offering valuable insights for developing advanced strategies for skin rejuvenation and repair . FAU - Martin , Bianca Aparecida
Most transcriptional activities are silent during mitosis and reactivated upon mitotic exit ; however , the underlying detailed mechanisms are still largely unknown . We revealed that the cell cycle regulatory machinery anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome ( APC/C ) and mitotic checkpoint complex ( MCC ) are coupled with transcription termination to modulate cell cycle progression via the transcription termination factor TTF The protein level of TTF2 oscillated during cell cycle progression , and increased in the S and G2/M phases while maintaining a low level in late mitosis and the G1 phase . Knockdown of TTF2 induced G2/M arrest , while overexpression of TTF2 accelerated the M/G1 transition and promoted cell proliferation . Mechanistic studies revealed that TTF2 was ubiquitinated by APC/C ( CDH1 ) and targeted for proteasomal degradation . Interestingly , TTF2 bound to CDC20 and prevented MCC formation during normal mitosis . However , TTF2 was degraded by APC/C ( CDH1 ) when the cell encountered persistent G2/M arrest , which would release CDC20 and promote the assembly of MCC . Additionally , TTF2 was overexpressed in almost all solid tumors and correlated with poor survival in patients with several kinds of solid tumors . Thus , these findings establish a link between transcription termination and cell cycle regulation , revealing an unexpected mechanism by which TTF2 plays dual roles in mitosis by binding to CDH1 and CDC20 to balance the activation of APC/C and MCC .
BACKGROUND : Basal cell carcinoma ( BCC ) is the most common type of malignant skin tumour , and its incidence is increasing worldwide . While it grows slowly , BCC is locally invasive , causing significant tissue damage . This study investigated the role of mRNAs in BCC through bioinformatics and experimental validation to elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved . METHODS : Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified from the transcriptome data of 30 BCC patients and 16 controls from the GSE7553 , GSE103439 , and GSE42109 datasets . Gene Ontology and KEGG analyses were performed to explore gene expression and pathways . A proteinprotein interaction ( PPI ) network was constructed to identify hub genes , and immune cell infiltration was analysed to study the tumour microenvironment . The diagnostic potential of target genes ( LEF1 , LGR5 , and SOX4 ) was assessed using ROC curves . Gene expression was validated with qPCR and Western blotting . RESULTS : A total of 135 DEGs were identified , with 9 hub genes selected . LEF1 , LGR5 , and SOX4 showed strong diagnostic potential , with AUC values of 888 , 955 , and 996 , respectively . The immune cell analysis revealed increased numbers of B cells , NK cells , and T cells in BCC , whereas the numbers of DCs , pDCs , and Treg cells were reduced . qPCR and Western blotting confirmed increased LEF1 and LGR5 expression in BCC . SOX4 expression was increased according to the qPCR results but was not significantly elevated according to the Western blot results , warranting further validation . CONCLUSIONS : LEF1 , LGR5 , and SOX4 may play roles in BCC pathogenesis and could serve as diagnostic biomarkers . These findings provide insights into BCC development and support future research for improved detection and treatment .
Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 C ( UBE2C ) is involved in tumor progression and cellular processes in many cancers and is implicated in cell cycle regulation . However , its prognostic significance in Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) and the mechanism of tumor immune response are unknown . The expression of UBE2C genes in HCC and normal tissue samples was investigated based on The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) LIHC dataset and validated by Gene Expression Omnibus and Human Protein Atlas . Subsequently , the relationship between UBE2C gene expression , clinicopathologic parameters , and each survival period was investigated by regression analysis and Kaplan-Meier survival curves . The set of genes co-expressed with UBE2C was constructed and subjected to genomic enrichment analysis , GO and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis . Finally , the relationship between UBE2C gene expression and immune cell infiltration , immunosuppressive molecules in tumor samples from the TCGA-LIHC dataset was investigated . UBE2C gene expression levels were significantly higher in HCC samples compared to normal samples ( p < 05 ) . Higher UBE2C gene expression was closely associated with higher tumor grade and later tumor stage . The results of Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that the survival of HCC patients with high UBE2C expression was shorter than that of patients with low UBE2C expression ( p < 05 , HR ( CI ) = 870[276 , 741] ) . The results of PPI showed a high correlation between cell cycle-related proteins and UBE2C gene expression . Additionally , the highly expressed UBE2C gene was associated with an increased number of immunosuppressive molecules . UBE2C is an independent predictive marker for HCC patients , and the prognostic value of survival is improved when combined with clinical stage information . This study reveals its potential as a prognostic biomarker and as a new target for HCC intervention .
Cellular aquaculture requires well-characterized marine cell lines for sustainable seafood production . This study developed muscle satellite cell lines from red seabream ( Pagrus major ) ( PMMSC ) to support cultured seafood production . Primary cells , isolated via collagenase digestion ( 61 x 10 cells/mL ) , were cultured in L- 15 medium under varying FBS levels ( 10-20% ) and temperatures ( 20-28 degrees C ) . Optimal growth occurred at 24 degrees C with 10% FBS , forming dense monolayers by day Differentiation into myotubes , induced with 2% horse serum , was confirmed by myogenic protein expression ( Pax7 , MYH , MyoD , MyoG , Desmin ) over 12 d . PMMSC proliferation was evaluated under reduced-serum conditions supplemented with Spirulina platensis extract , an algae-derived alternative to fetal bovine serum . The algae extract improved cell proliferation , demonstrating its potential for sustainable seafood production . Additionally , 3D cell expansion using gelatin microcarriers in a bioreactor resulted in an 18-fold increase in cell count , showcasing its potential for scalable production . This research provides a valuable resource for the cellular aquaculture field by establishing a well-characterized red seabream muscle satellite cell line and demonstrating the potential of algae-based serum replacements .
This review highlights the role of Anti-Mullerian Hormone ( AMH ) in ovarian insufficiency and as a predictor of menopause . AMH , produced by granulosa cells in growing follicles , is a key marker of ovarian reserve , reflecting the remaining pool of viable follicles . In cases of primary ovarian insufficiency ( POI ) , AMH levels are significantly reduced , aiding in diagnosis and distinguishing POI from other causes of amenorrhea . AMH levels below 8 pmol/L have shown high sensitivity ( 85% ) and specificity ( 100% ) for diagnosing POI in women with secondary oligomenorrhea . Regarding ovarian aging , AMH declines steadily with age , serving as a reliable predictor of menopausal timing . AMH levels are linked to menopausal symptoms , particularly vasomotor symptoms like hot flashes and their severity . However , its reliability for diagnosing menopause is inconsistent , especially in younger populations or when determining the exact onset . AMH levels can predict an earlier onset of menopause with limited sensitivity and specificity , particularly when using age-specific concentrations , as lower age-specific AMH levels are associated with an earlier menopause onset . Tracking AMH over time can improve the prediction of menopause . The accuracy of AMH measurements can be enhanced when considered alongside other hormonal markers or clinical symptoms . In polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) , elevated AMH levels suggest a delayed onset of menopause , indicating an approximately two-year longer reproductive lifespan compared to women without PCOS ( mean menopause age : 4 years in PCOS cases vs . 7 years in healthy controls ) . In endometriosis , AMH levels generally decline after surgery ; however , they remain stable after chemotherapy , even years later , indicating that the decline in ovarian reserve may not be significantly affected .
Prostate cancer ( PCa ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality in men , with a high propensity for bone metastasis that significantly impairs patient quality of life . The Wnt5a signaling pathway plays a pivotal role in the progression and metastasis of PCa . Wnt5a can act as both an oncogene and a tumor suppressor , highlighting its complex and context-dependent functions . In PCa , Wnt5a promotes tumor progression through mechanisms such as epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) and interaction with androgen receptor ( AR ) signaling . Conversely , Wnt5a can induce dormancy in bone-metastatic PCa cells via the ROR2/SIAH2 axis , inhibiting the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway . Understanding the dual roles of Wnt5a in PCa and bone metastasis is crucial for elucidating the underlying mechanisms of disease progression and identifying potential therapeutic targets . This review focuses on the current understanding of Wnt5a ' s role in PCa and bone metastasis , emphasizing its significance in tumor biology and clinical management .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) is a highly malignant tumor with a poor prognosis , underscoring the urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies . RCC cells exhibit rapid proliferation and high metabolic demands , leading to hypoglycemic and hypoxic conditions within the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . Our study reveals that the fructose transporter Glut5 is prominently expressed in RCC , facilitating increased fructose uptake . This compensatory mechanism supports RCC survival under glucose deprivation and hypoxia . Fructose utilization sustains RCC proliferation , migration , and colony formation in vitro , significantly reduces apoptosis , and accelerates renal cancer growth in vivo . Mechanistically , fructose activates the cAMP/PKA signaling pathway , driving metabolic reprogramming and promoting tumor progression . Furthermore , 2 , 5-dehydro-D-mannitol ( 2 , 5-AM ) , a competitive inhibitor of fructose transport , significantly inhibits RCC growth both in vivo and in vitro . These findings provide new insights into the role of fructose metabolism in RCC progression and suggest potential therapeutic targets .
The perennial life cycle involves the reiterative development of sexual and asexual organs . Asexual structures such as rhizomes are found in various plant species , fostering extensive growth and competitive advantages . In the African wild rice Oryza longistaminata , we investigated the formation of rhizomes from axillary buds , which notably bend diagonally downward of the main stem , as the factors determining whether axillary buds become rhizomes or tillers are unclear . Our study revealed that rhizome buds initiate between the third and fifth nodes of seedlings beyond the 6-leaf stage , while the buds above the sixth node develop into tillers . We propose that precise regulation of gibberellin ( GA ) biosynthesis plays a pivotal role in optimal rhizome bud development , as demonstrated by a comparative transcriptome analysis between tiller buds and rhizome buds and quantification of phytohormones . Furthermore , GA treatment upregulated the expression of genes associated with flowering repression and cell wall modification . These findings highlight the integration of GA biosynthesis and flowering repression genes as crucial in asexual organ development , shedding new light on the molecular mechanisms governing rhizome bud development in O . longistaminata and deepening our understanding of asexual reproduction regulation in perennial plants .
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) remains a major global health challenge with a need for improved diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers . This study aimed to evaluate the biomarker potential of extracellular vesicle ( EV ) -encapsulated glial fibrillary acidic protein ( EV-GFAP ) , neurofilament light chain ( EV-NfL ) , total tau ( EV-T-Tau ) , and ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 ( EV-UCH-L1 ) in TBI . A cohort of 93 trauma patients ( 75 with TBI and 18 without TBI ) was analyzed . Patients were sampled on admission , as well as 15 and 72 h post-injury . Following initial method validation , EVs were isolated from plasma using size exclusion chromatography ( SEC ) , and plasma levels and EV cargo levels of biomarkers were measured using an ultra-sensitive Single Molecule Array . EV-GFAP levels were significantly elevated in TBI patients compared to non-TBI trauma patients at admission and 15 h . A positive head CT was associated with 85 ( 95% CI : 18-91 ) fold increased EV-GFAP , whereas EV-NfL , EV-T-Tau , and EV-UCH-L1 levels were not affected . None of the tested EV biomarkers were associated with 1-year mortality or 6-12 months ' functional outcome . Plasma-GFAP levels increased 4 ( 95% CI : 72-70 ) fold with a positive head CT but were not associated with outcomes . EV-GFAP shows potential as an early biomarker of TBI , but plasma-GFAP remains a practical and reliable alternative . Future studies should explore the potential complementary roles of EV-based biomarkers on alternative aspects of TBI pathophysiology and prediction of long-term outcomes . Studies should refine methods to enhance reproducibility and clinical applicability .
Unlocking the neural regulation of complex behavior is a foundational goal of brain science . Touchscreen-based assessments of behavior have been used extensively in the pursuit of this goal , with traditional pharmacological and neurochemical approaches being employed to provide key insights into underlying neural systems . So far , optically based approaches to measure and manipulate neural function , which have begun to revolutionize our understanding of relatively simple behaviors , have been less widely adopted for more complex cognitive functions of the type assessed with touchscreen-based behavioral tasks . Here we provide guidance and procedural descriptions to enable researchers to integrate optically based manipulation and measurement techniques into their touchscreen experimental systems . We focus primarily on three techniques , optogenetic manipulation , fiber photometry and microendoscopic imaging , describing experimental design adjustments that we have found to be critical to the successful integration of these approaches with extant touchscreen behavior pipelines . These include factors related to surgical procedures and timing , alterations to touchscreen operant environments and approaches to synchronizing light delivery and task design . A detailed protocol is included for each of the three techniques , covering their use from implementation through data analysis . The procedures in this protocol can be conducted in as short a time as a few days or over the course of weeks or months .
BACKGROUND : Cervical squamous cell carcinoma and endocervical adenocarcinoma ( CESC ) pose significant global health challenges . While the mitochondrial unfolded protein response ( UPR ( mt ) ) is known to influence cancer biology , its specific role in CESC remains unclear . METHODS : We employed machine learning to analyze UPR ( mt ) genes in CESC using TCGA multi-omics data . Our comprehensive analysis included genetic alterations , prognostic significance , tumor-immune interactions , single-cell transcriptomics , pathway enrichment , and drug sensitivity assessments . RESULTS : ATF5 emerged as the most significant prognostic factor among UPR ( mt ) genes , with high expression correlating with better overall survival . High ATF5 expression was associated with an immunologically active tumor microenvironment , characterized by enhanced immune cell infiltration , increased immune checkpoint expression , and higher tumor mutational burden . Single-cell RNA sequencing revealed ATF5 ' s distinct expression patterns in stromal cells , particularly in endometrial stromal and smooth muscle cells . Gene set enrichment analysis provided mechanistic insight , revealing ATF5 ' s connection to the immune response via the regulation of P-stalk ribosome functions , a finding that underscores a novel aspect of UPR ( mt ) ' s role in shaping the tumor immune landscape . Drug sensitivity analysis showed that low ATF5 expression correlated with resistance to conventional chemotherapeutics ( cisplatin , paclitaxel , and etoposide ) but increased sensitivity to imatinib , potentially through EP300-dependent mechanisms . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings establish ATF5 as both a favorable prognostic marker and a key immune response regulator in CESC . Its influence on the tumor microenvironment and treatment response suggests potential therapeutic applications . These insights into UPR ( mt ) ' s role in CESC provide new directions for developing personalized treatment strategies .
BACKGROUND : Prostate cancer ( PCa ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality among men worldwide . Despite progress in the understanding of tumor biology , the prognosis for advanced prostate cancer remains poor , necessitating the identification of novel diagnostic , prognostic , and therapeutic biomarkers . Methuosis , a recently identified form of programmed cell death ( PCD ) , is characterized by cytoplasmic vacuole accumulation and subsequent cell rupture , distinct from classical apoptosis and necrosis . The key regulatory gene in Methuosis , ARF6 ( ADP-ribosylation factor 6 ) , has emerged as a potential marker for cancer diagnosis and treatment . However , its role in prostate cancer and other malignancies remains insufficiently understood . METHODS : In this study , we performed a comprehensive pan-cancer multi-omics analysis to investigate the role of ARF6 in Methuosis across multiple cancer types , with a specific focus on PCa as the primary context . Using data from public databases , including RNA sequencing , gene expression profiling , and clinical outcomes , we assessed the association between ARF6 expression and patient prognosis in PCa within this broader pan-cancer framework . Additionally , we employed functional enrichment analyses and survival analysis to explore the potential of ARF6 as a diagnostic and prognostic marker for prostate cancer . Immunotherapy-related gene expression signatures were also evaluated to determine the therapeutic relevance of ARF RESULTS : ARF6 was significantly overexpressed in PCa tissues compared to normal tissues and was associated with poor prognosis ( p < 05 ) , particularly in advanced and metastatic stages . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) analysis revealed a diagnostic AUC of 792 for ARF Functional analyses indicated that ARF6 regulates pathways critical to cell migration , invasion , and drug resistance . Moreover , ARF6 expression showed a strong negative correlation with immune checkpoint markers , such as PD-L1 ( r = - 74 ) , suggesting its potential as an immunotherapy target . These findings underscore ARF6 ' s pivotal role in Methuosis and its promise as a biomarker in PCa . CONCLUSION : ARF6 is a key regulator of Methuosis in prostate cancer , contributing to tumor progression , metastasis , and resistance to treatment . Our findings support the potential of ARF6 as a diagnostic , prognostic , and immunotherapeutic target in prostate cancer . Further experimental validation is needed to confirm these observations and to explore the therapeutic implications of targeting ARF6 in cancer treatment .
Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder , characterized by the progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the midbrain . With its incidence rising annually , the multi-mechanistic pathogenesis of PD presents new opportunities for the development of multi-target therapies . While previous studies have explored the therapeutic potential of natural products in PD , existing reviews often focus on single mechanisms or a limited number of compounds . While previous studies have explored the therapeutic potential of natural products in PD , existing reviews often focus on single mechanisms or a limited number of compounds . This article systematically evaluates preclinical studies published between 2018 and 2025 , encompassing 32 bioactive components and 10 categories of traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM ) formulas . It highlights the therapeutic potential of TCM active ingredients for PD by examining key mechanisms , including oxidative stress , ferroptosis , neuroinflammation , gut microbiota imbalance , mitochondrial dysfunction , autophagy , and endoplasmic reticulum stress . By integrating these insights , this review provides an interdisciplinary perspective to guide the development of next-generation botanical drugs for PD .
Tamoxifen is a cornerstone in the treatment of estrogen receptor ( ER ) -positive breast cancer , yet resistance to this therapy remains a significant clinical challenge . In most cases , the resistance phenotype is not caused by loss or mutation of the ER , but by changes in multiple proliferative and survival pathways . The mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) signaling pathways regulate various cellular processes such as cell growth , proliferation , and apoptosis . This review provides a comprehensive analysis of molecular mechanisms that sustain MAPK activation and promote tamoxifen resistance . We evaluated molecular factors that promote the survival of tamoxifen-resistant cells through the regulation of MAPK signaling , including growth factors , RNA-binding proteins , non-genomic ER variants , and microRNAs . Mitochondrial dynamics and their regulation by MAPK highlight novel adaptive mechanisms employed by resistant cells to survive . Furthermore , MAPK-mediated phosphorylation of ERalpha enhances resistance through ligand-independent activation and sustained cellular proliferation . MAPK and parallel oncogenic pathways , including PI3K/AKT and receptor tyrosine kinases ( EGFR , IGF-1R , and FGFR ) , function synergistically to enhance signaling redundancy and compensatory survival mechanisms . Therapeutic interventions targeting MAPK signaling-ranging from small-molecule inhibitors to RNA-based therapies-offer promising avenues for overcoming tamoxifen resistance .
Endocrine therapy ( ET ) is essential for managing ER+ HER2- breast cancer ; however , resistance remains a significant clinical challenge . This study investigated whether CD44-SLC1A2 gene fusions , reported in gastrointestinal malignancies , contribute to ET resistance mechanisms in breast cancer . Although no CD44-SLC1A2 fusions were detected , high expression of CD44 and SLC1A2 was associated with poor survival outcomes and identified a therapy-resistant subpopulation sustained by aspartate and glutamate metabolism , highlighting potential metabolic vulnerabilities for future therapeutic intervention .
BACKGROUND : Stomach adenocarcinoma ( STAD ) is a prevalent and aggressive cancer , often diagnosed at later stages , which poses challenges for effective treatment . Despite advancements in cancer therapies , the phenomenon of tumor drug resistance remains a critical hurdle . Recent studies have highlighted cuproptosis , a copper-dependent regulated cell death process , as a potential mechanism in various cancers , including STAD . This study integrates cuproptosis-related gene signatures with clinical features to better predict prognosis and explore potential therapeutic targets , focusing on the role of cuproptosis in overcoming tumor resistance mechanisms . METHODS : Using comprehensive datasets from TCGA-STAD ( n = 375 tumor samples , 32 normal samples ) , GTEx ( n = 211 normal gastric tissues ) , and GEO ( GSE84437 and GSE29272 ) , we analyzed the expression of genes associated with cuproptosis . We examined genetic alterations , immune infiltration , and constructed multivariate Cox regression models with clinicopathological covariates ( age , gender , TNM stage , histological grade , residual tumor status ) to assess the relationship between cuproptosis gene expression and patient survival outcomes , including overall survival ( OS ) , disease-specific survival ( DSS ) , and progression-free interval ( PFI ) . Drug sensitivity analysis was performed using the Genomics of Drug Sensitivity in Cancer ( GDSC ) database . RESULTS : Our analysis identified significant upregulation of several cuproptosis-related genes , including FDX1 , which was correlated with improved prognosis and immune cell infiltration patterns . High expression of FDX1 was associated with better OS and DSS outcomes . Further genetic alterations , notably in CDKN2A , were frequent and linked to poor prognosis , highlighting the complexity of tumor drug resistance in STAD . Prognostic models incorporating FDX1 , PDHA1 , and LIAS expression stratified patients into distinct risk categories , emphasizing their potential as biomarkers for personalized therapeutic strategies . CONCLUSIONS : This study underscores the importance of cuproptosis-related genes , particularly FDX1 , in the prognosis and therapeutic response of STAD . By integrating molecular features with clinical data , we offer insights into the potential for overcoming drug resistance in cancer therapy . These findings lay the groundwork for future research into targeted treatments that modulate cuproptosis , offering a novel approach to tackling tumor progression and resistance in STAD .
Cryopyrin-associated periodic syndrome ( CAPS ) is a condition characterized by dominant genetic variants in the NLRP3 gene , which lead to the formation of constitutively active inflammasomes . These inflammasomes play a crucial role in CAPS patients ' inflammatory episodes , these being primarily driven by the production of interleukin ( IL ) -1b . Although treatment with IL-1 blockers is effective for CAPS , some patients develop refractory responses and adverse reactions to these therapies . Consequently , there is a need for novel treatments for CAPS patients . Promising candidates are the derivatives of itaconate , which have been shown to impair NLRP3 inflammasome activation and IL-1beta release in blood mononuclear cells from CAPS patients . In this study , we provide insight into the inhibitory mechanisms by which the itaconate derivative 4-octyl itaconate ( 4-OI ) acts on NLRP3 that has different gain-of-function mutations ( p . R262W , p . D305N and p . T350M ) associated with CAPS . Notably , 4-OI effectively blocks the basal auto-activation of the inflammasome formed by NLRP3 p . R262W , p . D305N and p . T350M variants , which in turn reduces caspase-1 activation , gasdermin D processing , and IL-18 release . Furthermore , after lipopolysaccharide priming of macrophages , 4-OI also decreases IL-1beta gene expression and release . Overall , 4-OI impairs CAPS-associated inflammasome function at multiple levels , meaning that therapeutic agents based on itaconate could be a promising therapeutic approach to managing inflammatory episodes in CAPS patients carrying p . R262W , p . D305N or p . T350M variants .
The intestinal barrier is a critical defense against external pathogens and plays a central role in immune regulation and nutrient absorption . Oxidative stress and chronic inflammation in high-altitude environments can exacerbate the damage to the intestinal barrier in Baimei ternary pigs . Anthocyanin extract of Lycium ruthenicum Murray ( AEL ) , has garnered widespread attention due to its rich anthocyanin flavonoid content , which exhibits antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties . These properties help alleviate inflammation and oxidative stress , thereby enhancing gut function in animals . Based on this , the study employed Bamei ternary pigs and supplemented their basic diet with varying concentrations of AEL to investigate its impact on gut barrier function . The results demonstrated that AEL inhibited key factors of the intestinal Toll-like receptor pathway , including Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) , myeloid differentiation factor 88 ( MyD88 ) , tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated protein 6 ( TRAF6 ) , and nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) , affecting gene transcription and protein expression levels . This led to a reduction in pro-inflammatory cytokines , including tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) and interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , an increase in anti-inflammatory IL-10 production , and improved antioxidant capacity by enhancing total antioxidant capacity ( T-AOC ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and glutathione peroxidase ( GSH-Px ) activity , while decreasing malondialdehyde ( MDA ) production . Additionally , AEL improved intestinal morphology and facilitated the transcription and expression of tight junction proteins , including zonula occludens-1 ( ZO-1 ) , claudin-1 ( CLDN-1 ) , and occludin ( OCLN ) . AEL also elevated the transcription levels of mucin 1 ( MUC1 ) and mucin 2 ( MUC2 ) , as well as the secretion levels of polymeric immunoglobulin receptor ( pIgR ) and secretory immunoglobulin A ( SIgA ) , while increased the number of intestinal goblet cells . Furthermore , dietary supplementation with AEL altered the structure of the intestinal microbiota , enhancing the abundance of beneficial bacterial genera such as Verrucomicrobiaceae , Rikenellaceae , Butyricicoccaceae , UCG-005Rikenellaceae_RC9_gut_groupnorank_f_RuminococcaceaeEubacterium_oxidoreducens_group , thereby promoting the production of intestinal short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) . In conclusion , AEL inhibits the Toll-like receptor pathway , reduces the production of inflammatory factors , enhances antioxidant levels , improves intestinal morphology and microbiota structure , , thereby reinforcing intestinal barrier function .
Cytoplasmic dynein-1 ( dynein ) is an essential molecular motor controlled in part by autoinhibition . Lis1 , a key dynein regulator mutated in the neurodevelopmental disease lissencephaly , plays a role in dynein activation . We recently identified a structure of partially autoinhibited dynein bound to Lis1 , which suggests an intermediate state in dynein ' s activation pathway . However , other structural information is needed to fully understand how Lis1 activates dynein . Here , we used cryo-EM and yeast dynein and Lis1 incubated with ATP at different time points to reveal conformations that we propose represent additional intermediate states in dynein ' s activation pathway . We solved 16 high-resolution structures , including 7 distinct dynein and dynein-Lis1 structures from the same sample . Our data support a model in which Lis1 relieves dynein autoinhibition by increasing its basal ATP hydrolysis rate and promoting conformations compatible with complex assembly and motility . Together , this analysis advances our understanding of dynein activation and the contribution of Lis1 to this process .
Congenital ptosis , a genetic disorder involving levator palpebrae muscle dysfunction , is often associated with congenital myopathy . The genetic causes of this condition remain poorly understood . In this study , we identified FOXK2 mutations in five pedigrees with congenital myopathy and ptosis through whole exome sequencing and Sanger sequencing . Zebrafish with foxk2 deficiency exhibited underdeveloped skeletal muscles and reduced mobility , while mice with Foxk2 deletion in skeletal muscle stem cells ( MuSCs ) showed generalized skeletal muscle abnormalities . Further analysis revealed that FOXK2 deficiency impaired myogenic differentiation in C2C12 cells and disrupted mitochondrial homeostasis in both mouse MuSCs and C2C12 cells . Rescue experiments confirmed the loss-of-function effects of FOXK2 mutation . Coenzyme Q10 treatment improved mitochondrial function and alleviated skeletal muscle development defects in Foxk2-deficient mice . Preliminary omics analysis suggested FOXK2 directly regulates the expression of mitochondrial function-related genes by modulating chromatin accessibility at its binding sites . Our study identifies FOXK2 as a novel pathogenic gene for congenital myopathy with ptosis and highlights its essential role in skeletal muscle development and mitochondrial homeostasis , offering insights for potential diagnostics and therapies .
Natural killer ( NK ) cells have evolved to detect abnormalities in tissues arising from infection with pathogens , genomic damage , or transformation and respond rapidly to the production of potent proinflammatory and cytolytic mediators . While this acute proinflammatory response is highly efficient at orchestrating sterilizing immunity to pathogens in a matter of days , cellular transformation often avoids the innate detection mechanisms of NK cells . When cellular transformation results in malignancy , tumor cells and/or the tumor microenvironment can evolve additional mechanisms to circumvent NK cell responses , and cancer is now a dominant disease burden worldwide . Here , we review recent advances in our understanding of the combined relationship between malignancies and natural killer ( NK ) cells , learn from recent clinical efforts in therapeutically targeting natural killer ( NK ) cells in cancer and outline some emerging therapeutic concepts that aim to improve the innate immune response against cancer .
This study aimed to compare the efficacy and safety of preemptive and maintenance therapies as post-transplant therapy for acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . Patients with AML who underwent allogeneic stem cell transplantation and received post-transplant therapy were eligible . Preemptive therapy was initiated if elevated Wilms ' tumor-1 mRNA was detected in the peripheral blood . Twenty-nine patients received either preemptive ( n = 12 ) or maintenance therapy ( n = 17 ) . The median age was 56 years ( range , 18-70 ) . The median time from transplantation to intervention was 77 days ( range , 43-203 ) for maintenance and 346 days ( range , 104-1027 ) for preemptive therapy . Maintenance therapy consisted of azacitidine ( AZA ) monotherapy in six patients , venetoclax ( VEN ) + AZA in five , and VEN + cytarabine ( AraC ) in six . Preemptive therapy consisted of AZA monotherapy in two patients , VEN + AZA in nine , and VEN + AraC in one . One-year overall survival from intervention was 92% for maintenance and 73% for preemptive therapy ( P = 28 ) , and 1-year event-free survival was 83% and 66% , respectively ( P = 29 ) . No serious adverse events or treatment-related mortality were observed in either group . Both therapies were safe and effective in preventing disease relapse . A prospective study comparing these two groups is warranted .
BACKGROUND : Adrenoleukodystrophy ( ALD ) is associated with disruption in very long chain fatty acid ( VLCFA ) processing due to a genetic mutation in the X-linked ABCD1 gene . The buildup of VLCFAs predisposes males to adrenal insufficiency ( AI ) and cerebral demyelination ( cerebral ALD ) . If diagnosed early , these conditions can be treated effectively by hormone replacement and hematopoietic stem cell transplant , respectively . ALD is now included on the newborn screen panel in the majority of the United States . Thus far , there are no predictive tools to identify the development of early cerebral disease , necessitating frequent imaging surveillance with biannual MRIs starting at age 2 years through 12 years , then per annum for the remainder of the patient ' s life . A bloodborne biomarker has been desirable to efficiently predict the onset of cerebral disease and reduce the healthcare burden on the family as well as healthcare expense . METHODS : We prospectively measured plasma neurofilament light ( NfL ) chain levels in five boys with ALD who ultimately developed cerebral ALD . RESULTS : We describe that baseline plasma NfL levels can be established for boys with ALD and that an increase of 50% above baseline occurs at the time that cerebral disease develops . CONCLUSIONS : As far as we are aware , this is the first report highlighting that a bloodborne biomarker , plasma NfL , could potentially be used as a concomitant indicator of cerebral disease initiation , thus simplifying surveillance for cerebral ALD .
During aging , hematopoietic stem cell ( HSC ) function progressively declines which can lead to reduced blood cell production and regeneration . This work uncovered that cell surface presentation of P-selectin ( CD62P , encoded by Selp ) increases in a large fraction of aging HSCs driven by a proinflammatory milieu in mice . Notably , expression of P-selectin molecularly and functionally dichotomized the aging HSC pool ; stem cells presenting with highly abundant P-selectin were hallmarked by aging-associated gene expression programs and reduced repopulation capacity upon regenerative stress . Ectopic expression of Selp in young HSCs was sufficient to impair long-term reconstitution potential and impair erythropoiesis . Mechanistically , we uncovered that P-selectin receptor activation by its primary ligand , P-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 , suppressed aging-associated gene expression , and , reversely , lack of P-selectin signaling led to HSC premature aging . Collectively , our study uncovered a functional role of P-selectin engagement in regulating HSC regeneration and driving stem cell aging when perturbed .
Liver fibrosis is an over-reacted wound healing that becomes lethal in its late stage , when hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) trigger fibrotic response , proliferation of connective tissue and build-up of directional fibrous tissue bands ( septa ) . Current in vitro models of liver fibrosis cannot reproduce liver lobule structure and the dynamic formation of septa at the same time , and the known biochemical cues underlying the progression of liver fibrosis cannot explain directional formation of fibrotic tissue . Here we report a microfabricated in vitro model that reproduces both the hexagonal liver lobule structure and the dynamic directionality of septa formation . By using collagen and primary mouse HSCs or human HSC lines , we found that tension was necessary to coordinate the cell migration that contributes to the band-like cell distribution and that HSCs sensed directional biophysical cues through liquid-liquid phase separation . This system allows the study of the biophysical interaction of HSCs and collagen during the formation of septa structures , and could be used to deepen our understanding of liver fibrosis progression .
The development of biosensors that can detect specific analytes continuously , in vivo , in real time has proven difficult due to biofouling , probe degradation and signal drift that often occur in vivo . By drawing inspiration from intestinal mucosa that can protect host cell receptors in the presence of the gut microbiome , we develop a synthetic biosensor that can continuously detect specific target molecules in vivo . The biomimetic multicomponent sensor features the hierarchical nano-bio interface design with three-dimensional bicontinuous nanoporous structure , polymer coating and aptamer switches , balancing small-molecule sensing and surface protection in complex biological environments . Our system is stable for at least 1 month in undiluted serum in vitro or 1 week implanted within the blood vessels of free-moving rats , retaining over 50% baseline signal and reproducible calibration curves . We demonstrate that the implanted system can intravenously track pharmacokinetics in real time even after 4 days of continuous exposure to flowing blood within rat femoral vein . In this way , our work provides a generalizable design foundation for biosensors that can continuously operate in vivo for extended durations .
Rotenone-induced neurotoxicity in SH-SY5Y cells is an essential hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) and Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) . beta-Caryophyllene ( BCP ) , a cannabinoid receptor 2 ( CB2 ) agonist , has anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and cytoprotective efficacy . The involvement of the GSK-3beta/NRF2/HO-1 axis in neuroprotection has garnered attention as a possible mechanism for BCP to exhibit multitargeted neuroprotective effects . Hence , this study investigates the effects of BCP against rotenone-induced neurotoxicity and apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells , focusing on the involvement of the GSK-3beta/NRF2/HO-1 signaling pathway . Initially , we performed the in silico molecular docking of BCP with GSK-3beta , NRF2 , and HO-1 proteins to ensure the degree of binding affinities . The in vitro MTT assay was performed to evaluate cell viability , followed by the assessment of biomarkers such as LDH leakage , oxidative stress , reactive species , caspase 3 activity , pro-inflammatory markers , and GSK-3beta , NRF2 , and HO-1 proteins in BCP , as well as specific receptor modulators ( chir98023 and quercetin ) against the rotenone pre-treated cells . In silico molecular docking studies revealed that BCP exhibits a strong binding affinity for GSK-3beta , NRF2 , and HO-1 proteins . Also , in vitro studies revealed that BCP ( 100 microg/ml ) , as compared to the rotenone-treated group , significantly restored cell viability ( 72% ) . Moreover , BCP significantly modulates cell cytotoxicity ( LDH leakage ) , pro-apoptotic , pro-inflammatory , reactive species , and oxidative stress markers . Molecular docking established robust binding affinities of BCP with GSK-3beta , NRF2 , and HO-1 proteins . Furthermore , protein estimation by ELISA confirmed the BCP-mediated modulation of these pathways . These findings suggest that BCP protects SH-SY5Y cells from rotenone-induced neurotoxicity , offering a potential therapeutic candidate for neurodegenerative diseases like AD .
The most prevalent form of primary liver cancer and one of the chief drivers of cancer-related mortality globally is hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . Imminent evidence has indicated that non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) play an integral part in the development and propagation of HCC . RNA stabilization , transcription regulation , chromatin and genomic architecture remodeling , enhancer-associated activity , and other varied properties set long intergenic ncRNA ( lincRNA ) genes apart from messenger RNA ( mRNA ) -encoding genes . Through a variety of processes , lincRNAs may generally be used to fine-tune the transcription of nearby genes with exceptional tissue specificity , underscoring our quickly developing knowledge of the non-coding genome . Through their binding with divergent cell targets , some HCC-related ncRNAs have been demonstrated to exhibit abnormal expression , contribute to malignant growth , evade apoptosis , and have invasive potential . Therefore , a better comprehension of lincRNA dysregulation might offer novel perspectives on the pathophysiology of HCC as well as innovative instruments for the early detection and management of HCC . In the present review , we provide an overview of the increasing relevance of lincRNAs as a major contributor to the pathophysiology of HCC , emphasizing their influence on signaling pathways implicated in the development , progression , and response to treatment of tumors . In addition , we go over the new approaches that target lincRNAs for HCC treatment as well as the possible therapeutic uses of lincRNAs as prognostic and diagnostic biomarkers for HCC .
Natural and synthetic retinoids are derivatives of vitamin A that mediate different transcriptional activities . Synthesis of fluorescent probes can be a useful tool in cellular imaging and understanding different regulatory signaling pathways . In this study , new fluorescent synthetic retinoid analogues ( 3a , 3b , 4a , and 4b ) were prepared and biologically screened against six different cancer and normal cell lines for assessment of their anticancer and fluorescent activities . A combination of biological assays , such as MTT , flow cytometry , gene and protein expression analysis , DNA fragmentation , and ATPase activity assays , as well as in-silico and ADME studies , was performed . All new compounds showed anti-proliferative activity ( 09-70 microM ) against different cancer cell types with minimal cytotoxicity ( SI > 1 ) , and the Caco-2 cancer cell line was selected for further in vitro investigation . All compounds showed cell cycle arrest at the SubG-G phase with induction of early apoptosis and necrosis . Compound 4b showed a significant apoptotic effect by overexpression of Caspase-3 and Cyt-c genes , followed by compound 3a . All compounds showed anti-inflammatory activity by significantly down-regulating the IL-10 pro-inflammatory marker , while compounds 3b , 4a , and 4b specifically down-regulated IL- Retinoic acid receptors ( RARs ) were suggested as molecular targets confirmed by their overexpression of both gene and protein levels with molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation studies . All fluorescent compounds showed intracellular fluorescent emission spectra with intracellular lipophilic properties . The new fluorescent synthetic retinoids showed dual activities as anticancer agents with fluorescence properties and can be used as useful probes in a variety of cellular imaging investigations .
The SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has reemphasized the urgent need for broad-spectrum antiviral therapies . We developed a computational workflow using scRNA-Seq data to assess cellular metabolism during viral infection . With this workflow we predicted the capacity of cells to sustain SARS-CoV-2 virion production in patients and found a tissue-wide induction of metabolic pathways that support viral replication . Expanding our analysis to influenza A and dengue viruses , we identified metabolic targets and inhibitors for potential broad-spectrum antiviral treatment . These targets were highly enriched for known interaction partners of all analyzed viruses . Indeed , phenformin , an NADH : ubiquinone oxidoreductase inhibitor , suppressed SARS-CoV-2 and dengue virus replication . Atpenin A5 , blocking succinate dehydrogenase , inhibited SARS-CoV-2 , dengue virus , respiratory syncytial virus , and influenza A virus with high selectivity indices . In vivo , phenformin showed antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 in a Syrian hamster model . Our work establishes host metabolism as druggable for broad-spectrum antiviral strategies , providing invaluable tools for pandemic preparedness .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : The diversity of the donor pool has an impact on blood provision for patients with inherited blood disorders , such as sickle cell anaemia . Many patients are critically dependent on red cell transfusions and due to uneven antigen distribution among different ethnic groups , they are at high risk of red cell alloimmunization . The aims of the present study were to understand the motivators and barriers to young Black Irish people donating blood , to explore the views of older Black individuals who were previously excluded but may now be eligible to donate following the recent changes to donor screening , and lastly , to make recommendations for future campaigns that appeal to the Irish Black community . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Online focus groups with people of African Ancestry living in Ireland were conducted ( n = 6 focus groups , n = 47 participants ) . A semi-structured format was adopted . The focus group transcripts were analysed to identify the key themes expressed . RESULTS : The main barriers to blood donation were ( i ) personal beliefs , ( ii ) distrust of healthcare organizations , ( iii ) previous negative donation experiences , ( iv ) a lack of basic information and ( v ) replacement donation . Motivators to donate blood included ( i ) altruism , ( ii ) Black representation , ( iii ) targeted information , ( iv ) helping the Black community and ( v ) building trust . CONCLUSION : Blood donor recruitment among the Irish Black community should be informed by an understanding of the varied attitudes to blood donation and the current social norms within Irish African communities . Ireland is a modern multicultural society and its blood donor pool should strive to reflect this diversity .
Sunitinib , a multi-targeted receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitor with specificity for VEGFR , KIT , FLT3 , and PDGFR , has demonstrated clinical efficacy as a first- to third-line treatment for refractory renal carcinoma . Our previous research indicated that sunitinib malate suppresses intestinal polyp proliferation by downregulating IL-6 mRNA expression , suggesting a potential analogous mechanism in colorectal carcinoma inhibition . This study aimed to elucidate the pharmacological effects and molecular mechanisms of sunitinib malate on colorectal carcinoma using HCT116 , RKO , HT29 , and SW480 cell lines in vitro and HCT116-derived xenografts in nude mice in vivo . We employed a comprehensive array of experimental techniques , including CCK-8/MTT assays for cell viability , Transwell and/or wound healing assays for migration , and Western blot and immunohistochemistry for protein expression analysis . Our findings demonstrate that sunitinib malate significantly inhibits colorectal cancer cell proliferation and migration in vitro . Moreover , in the xenograft model , sunitinib malate markedly suppressed colorectal tumor growth in vivo . Notably , we observed significant downregulation of c-MYC , TWIST , and MMP2 expression both in vitro and in vivo following sunitinib malate treatment . These results collectively suggest that sunitinib malate exerts its anti-colorectal carcinoma effects , at least in part , by disrupting the autocrine IL-6/STAT3/c-MYC/TWIST/MMP2 signaling axis .
BACKGROUND : The tumour-suppressor protein p53 can form amyloid aggregates resulting in loss of tumour-suppressing functions and leading to tumour formation . The detection of p53 aggregates in cancer cells has been demonstrated but these aggregates have not been detected in liquid biopsies to date , due to the lack of sufficiently sensitive methods . METHODS : We developed an ultrasensitive immunoassay based on the single-molecule array ( SiMoA ) technology to detect p53 aggregates in plasma , based on antibody capture of the aggregates . We confirmed that the assay detects p53 aggregates using super-resolution imaging . We then investigated the p53 aggregate concentrations in the plasma of 190 pre-surgery glioblastoma ( GB ) patients and 22 controls using this assay . RESULTS : We found that the plasma p53 aggregate levels are significantly elevated in pre-surgery GB patients ' plasma compared to controls . Longitudinal study further reveals that p53 aggregate levels may increase before GB recurrence and decrease following treatment . We also observed raised p53 aggregate concentrations in the plasma of cancer patients with brain metastases . CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates the detection of p53 aggregates in liquid biopsies . Our findings highlight the potential of p53 aggregates as a novel biomarker for glioblastoma .
Recombinant proteins , cell , and gene therapies are collectively defined as biological drugs or biologics . These therapies have transformed the lives of millions of patients over the past decades , with the number of FDA-approved biologics increasing exponentially in recent years . However , out of approximately 700 biological therapies approved by the FDA in the last 20 years , less than 1% are indicated for cardiac pathologies . The application of biologics in cardiovascular disease has faced significant challenges , including short plasma half-life , the multifactorial complexity of cardiac disease , and the lack of efficient , non-invasive , and patient-friendly drug-delivery routes . This translational gap is particularly pressing given the immense socioeconomic burden of cardiovascular disease , which remains the leading cause of death globally and accounts for billions in annual healthcare costs and lost productivity . Inhalation-based drug delivery has recently emerged as a promising strategy for treating cardiovascular disease , with several proof-of-concept studies demonstrating its potential in heart failure , the most prevalent cardiac condition . This narrative review summarizes the latest experimental evidence in the novel field of Cardiovascular Inhalation , i . e . , the lung-to-heart route for biologics . We discuss translational challenges , preclinical evidence , and future perspectives for bringing this innovative approach to clinical practice .
BACKGROUND : Lung squamous cell carcinoma ( LUSC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality , and tumor heterogeneity could result in diverse prognostic subtypes . Traditional prognostic factors , like tumor , node , and metastasis ( TNM ) staging , offer limited predictive accuracy . This study aims to identify LUSC subtypes and develop predictive models that have the potential to improve prognosis prediction accuracy and support personalized treatment . METHODS : Expression and clinical data were collected from three datasets . One dataset ( TCGA-LUSC ) was used as a training set , while the others ( GSE30219 and GSE73403 ) were independent testing sets . Unsupervised clustering was applied to the training set to identify LUSC subtypes . The relationship between survival outcomes and these identified subtypes was validated in the testing sets using binary machine learning models and survival curve analysis . The impact of chemotherapy on the prognosis for subtypes was also presented . Subsequently , four survival machine learning models were developed to predict LUSC prognosis . These models were validated in the testing sets and integrated into an online tool to assist in survival prediction . RESULTS : Two subtypes , C1 and C2 , were identified in the training set . The C1 subtype was associated with poorer survival outcomes and was enriched in cancer-associated fibroblasts and macrophages . In contrast , the C2 subtype correlated with better outcomes and was enriched in CD8 + T cells . Regarding chemotherapy , the C2 subtype with chemotherapy showed the best survival outcomes compared to other groups . A 9-gene signature was derived from the model ' s importance values for subtype prediction and included TGM2 , AOC3 , TBXA2R , RGS3 , DLC1 , MMP19 , ACVRL1 , TCF21 , and TIMP This signature outperformed 14 published signatures and clinical variables at survival prediction with the highest time-dependent AUC ( tdAUC ) and concordance index ( C-index ) . Four machine learning models were developed using this signature , achieving tdAUC values of 712 and 684 and C-index values of 682 and 625 in the independent testing sets . An online tool for predicting survival probabilities for LUSC patients up to 10 years post-treatment is available at https : //hznuduan . shinyapps . io/LCSP/ . CONCLUSION : We identified two LUSC subtypes by unsupervised clustering and developed an online tool for prognosis prediction using supervised machine learning models .
To explore the effect of sodium dichloroacetate ( DCA ) , a pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase ( PDK ) inhibitor , on the progression of gastric cancer and resistance to radiotherapy , we analyzed histopathological microarrays from 60 gastric cancer and paracancerous tissues to determine PDK expression and its prognostic significance . 5-Ethynyl-2 ' -deoxyuridine ( EdU ) incorporation assay and Transwell migration assay were used to investigate the effects of PDK inhibition on gastric cancer cell proliferation and migration . Flow cytometry revealed that PDK inhibition promoted apoptosis and induced G1 phase cell cycle arrest . Colony formation assay combined with radiation was performed to calculate radiobiological parameters , while Western blot detected the expression of phosphorylated histone H2AX ( gamma-H2AX ) , a DNA double-strand break marker . Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation was measured using the fluorescent probe 2 ' , 7 ' -dichlorodihydrofluorescein diacetate ( DCFH-DA ) . Our results showed that PDK was highly expressed in gastric cancer tissues and correlated with poor patient prognosis . PDK inhibition suppressed proliferation and migration of gastric cancer cells , promoted apoptosis and G1 phase arrest , and enhanced gamma-H2AX accumulation and ROS generation , thereby increasing radiosensitivity . These findings demonstrate that targeting PDK inhibits gastric cancer progression and sensitizes tumor cells to radiotherapy .
Diabetic retinopathy is a retinal damage , which causes vision impairment and blindness . Integrin Subunit Alpha 5 ( ITGA5 ) regulates angiogenic response , but its roles in diabetic retinopathy remain unclear . In this work , diabetes mellitus was induced in rats by streptozotocin . ITGA5 interference was achieved by intravitreal delivery of adeno-associated virus . Upregulation of ITGA5 was found in diabetic rat retinal tissues . ITGA5 knockdown decreased the neovascularization , acellular capillary formation , and pericytes . The protein expression of vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGFA ) , vascular adhesion molecule-1 ( VCAM-1 ) , and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( ICAM-1 ) was reduced after ITGA5 interference . Besides , ITGA5 knockdown decreased the phosphorylation level of FAK , TAK-1 , and p In vitro , rat retinal microvascular endothelial cells ( RRMECs ) were cultured under high glucose condition to stimulate diabetic environment . ITGA5 knockdown inhibited VEGFA secretion , tube formation , cell invasion , and migration . Upregulation of VCAM-1 and ICAM-1 that induced by high glucose was reversed by ITGA5 silencing . ITGA5 knockdown blocked the activation of TAK-1/NF-kB pathway in RRMECs . Additionally , in oxygen-induced retinopathy model , ITGA5 interference inhibited pathological neovascularization . These results demonstrate that ITGA5 contributes to the angiogenesis in diabetic retinopathy by activating TAK-1/NF-kB pathway .
The medial prefrontal cortex ( mPFC ) is important for higher cognitive functions , including working memory , decision making , and emotional control . In vivo recordings of neuronal activity in the mPFC have been achieved via invasive electrical and optical approaches . Here we apply low invasive three-photon in vivo imaging in the mPFC of the mouse at unprecedented depth . Specifically , we measure neuronal and astrocytic Ca ( 2+ ) -transient parameters in awake head-fixed mice up to a depth of 1700 microm . Furthermore , we longitudinally record dendritic spine density ( 41 +/- 07 microm ( -1 ) ) deeper than 1 mm for a week . Using 1650 nm wavelength to excite red fluorescent microglia , we quantify their processes ' motility ( 9 +/- 2% turnover rate ) at previously unreachable depths ( 1100 microm ) . We establish three-photon imaging of the mPFC enabling neuronal and glial recordings with subcellular resolution that will pave the way for novel discoveries in this brain region .
Diabetic wounds are common in patients with type 2 diabetes ; they are ischemic and inflammatory , and difficult to heal without intervention . Hyperbaric oxygen therapy ( HBOT ) is a standard treatment , but its effectiveness is limited to a subset of the aging population . Senescent fibroblasts , a hallmark of aging , impair wound healing , and senolytic drugs , like quercetin ( Q ) , which target senescent cells , may improve healing . In this study , we developed a mathematical model that defines biological aging through two parameters , eta and [Formula : see text] , that decline with age . These parameters reflect the biological age of an individual , where eta represents fibroblast proliferation and [Formula : see text] represents the production of the angiogenetic protein VEGF . Our model predicts that treatment with only HBOT achieves wound closure , within normal expectable time , for patients with a limited subset pairs of [Formula : see text] , and this subset is increased to a larger subset by combining Q with HBOT . The two subsets of [Formula : see text] are determined explicitly by simulations of the model . To make these results applicable in clinical setting , one will have to relate the aging parameters eta and [Formula : see text] to tangible marks of biological-aging factors .
BACKGROUND : Gastric cancer ( GC ) , known for its aggressive growth and metastasis , remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality . Although Timosaponin B-II ( TB-II ) from Anemarrhena asphodeloides has shown anticancer potential , its underlying mechanisms in GC are not yet fully understood . METHODS : Our study investigates and compares the expression patterns of Kruppel-Like Factor 6 ( KLF6 ) in GC tissues across different TNM stages , while exploring its upstream regulatory factors . GC cells were treated with Timosaponin B-II ( TB-II ) , and alterations in cell proliferation and apoptosis rates were evaluated using CCK-8 and TUNEL assays . Furthermore , the expression levels of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) , miR-455-3p , and KLF6 were quantified to elucidate the mechanisms underlying TB-II ' s effects . To confirm the interaction between miR-455-3p and KLF6 , as well as Nrf2 and miR-455-3p , bioinformatics analysis , luciferase assays , and ChIP-PCR were conducted . Finally , protein synthesis and degradation assays were performed to explore the mechanism by which TB-II regulates the expression and activity of Nrf RESULTS : Both mRNA and protein expression levels of KLF6 were significantly lower in GC tissues compared to adjacent normal tissues . Notably , only KLF6 protein expression exhibited a decline in GC tissues from stages I to III of GC , whereas its upstream regulator , miR-455-3p , displayed the opposite trend . Treatment with TB-II markedly inhibited GC cells proliferation and induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent manner . Mechanistically , TB-II treatment upregulated the expression of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 ( Keap1 ) protein , facilitating the formation of the Keap1/Nrf2 complex , which enhanced the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of Nrf2 in GC cells . Consequently , the transcriptional activation of miR-455-3p by Nrf2 was suppressed , resulting in the upregulation of the tumor suppressor KLF Silencing KLF6 can counteract the effects of TB-II in inhibiting proliferation and promoting apoptosis in GC cells . CONCLUSION : TB-II suppresses GC cell proliferation and induces apoptosis via the Nrf2/miR-455-3p/KLF6 pathway .
OBJECTIVE : This bibliometric study aimed to map the global research landscape of programmed cell death ( PCD ) in renal cancer , delineating publication trends , influential authors , contributing regions , and thematic shifts between 1998 and 2023 year . METHODS : We retrieved 5 , 134 records from the Web of Science Core Collection ( 1998-2023 ) using comprehensive keywords encompassing " renal cancer , " " programmed cell death , " and related synonyms . After applying inclusion and exclusion criteria , we conducted co-citation , keyword , and cluster analyses with CiteSpace ( v . R2 ) and VOSviewer ( v . 20 ) to identify major research fronts , collaboration networks , and thematic clusters . RESULTS : Findings revealed a progressive increase in publications , notably accelerating after 2010 in tandem with the rise of immunotherapeutic strategies and targeted molecular interventions . China and the United States emerged as leading contributors , while journals such as Cancer Research and Clinical Cancer Research dominated in both publication frequency and citation impact . Authors including Kwon Taeg Kyu and Dahiya Rajvir significantly shaped foundational apoptosis research . Keyword and cluster analyses demonstrated a shift from earlier apoptosis- and angiogenesis-focused studies toward intersections of metabolic reprogramming , immune infiltration , and newer cell death modalities ( e . g . , ferroptosis , pyroptosis ) . High-impact papers underscored immunotherapy ' s pivotal role in modulating cell death pathways and informing novel combination regimens . CONCLUSION : PCD research in renal cancer has evolved into a dynamic , interdisciplinary domain integrating immunology , molecular targeting , and multi-omic profiling . Future development of the field aimed at refining precision therapies that exploit diverse cell death mechanisms and thereby improve clinical outcomes .
Patients of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) were grouped into subtypes by a symptom-based diagnostic system of the traditional Chinese medicine for detecting metabolomic information that would otherwise be lost due to the high degree of variations in clinical samples . LC/MS-based metabolomic tools were employed to identify distinct metabolomic features in T2DM patients in one of the subtypes in the symptom-based diagnostic system . Several of the affected metabolic pathways could be ameliorated by the combined treatment of metformin and DPP4 inhibitor , except the taurine/hypotaurine metabolic pathway . It was possible that modulating the taurine/hypotaurine metabolism in the combined treatment with metformin and DPP4 inhibitor would enhance the therapeutic effects . To this end , a mouse diabetic model was treated with taurine in addition to metformin and DPP4 inhibitor . Indeed supplementing taurine during the combined treatment led to improvements in various indicators of the disorder such as those for the fatty acid and glucose metabolisms . It could be concluded that taurine was a useful supplement for treating T2DM with metformin and DPP4 inhibitor .
To examine changes in peripheral blood complete blood count ( CBC ) parameters during acute Kawasaki disease ( KD ) , compare immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) -sensitive and IVIG-resistant groups , and develop an IVIG resistance model . A retrospective review of clinical and lab data from 282 KD patients ( 2014-2024 ) was conducted . CBC parameters were collected at initial , pre-IVIG , and post-IVIG stages . The rank-sum test assessed parameter differences over time . Patients were categorized into IVIG-resistant ( n = 29 ) and IVIG-sensitive ( n = 253 ) groups . Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses identified IVIG resistance risk factors , resulting in four predictive models ( A , B , C , and D ) based on blood changes and clinical experience . The models ' effectiveness was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves , the Hosmer-Lemeshow test , and decision curve analysis , with the bootstrap ( BS ) method confirming performance . Significant differences were found in post-IVIG blood parameters , including white blood cell count ( WBC ) , neutrophils , lymphocytes , eosinophils , hemoglobin , platelets , neutrophil to lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) , platelet to lymphocyte ratio ( PLR ) , and mean platelet volume to lymphocyte ratio ( MPVLR ) , compared to pre-IVIG and initial CBC ( P < 05 ) . In IVIG-resistant patients , NLR , PLR , MPVLR , neutrophil percentage were higher , while lymphocyte percentage was lower than in IVIG-sensitive patients ( P < 05 ) . The resistant group also showed smaller changes in neutrophil percentages ( big up tri , openN ) and lymphocyte percentages ( big up tri , openL ) . Area under the curve ( AUC ) values for BS-ROC curves were as follows : model A : 758 ( 95% CI : 636-878 ) , model B : 917 ( 95% CI : 852-982 ) , model C : 949 ( 95% CI : 909-978 ) , and model D ( NLR post-IVIG administration combined with big up tri , openL ) : 910 ( 95% CI : 857-963 ) . Hosmer-Lemeshow test P values for all four models were > DCA indicated clinical value for all models , especially model C . Blood routine parameters in children with KD vary over time , and IVIG administration alters these parameters . We developed and validated four prediction models for IVIG resistance in KD patients using blood routine data . This indicates that ongoing monitoring of these parameters can predict IVIG resistance and enhance patient outcomes .
The advent of single cell multi-omic technologies has ushered in a revolution in how we study the impact of three-dimensional genome organization on brain cellular composition and function . Transcriptomic and epigenomic studies reveal enormous cellular diversity that is present in mammalian nervous systems , raising the question , " how does this diversity arise and for what is its use ? " Advances in the field of three-dimensional nuclear architecture have illuminated our understanding of how genome folding gives rise to dynamic gene expression programs important in healthy brain function and in disease . In this review we highlight recent work defining how neuronal identity , maturation , and plasticity are shaped by genome architecture . We discuss how newly identified genetic variations influence genome architecture and contribute to the evolution of species-unique neuronal and behavioral functional traits . We include examples for both humans and model organisms in which maladaptive genomic architecture is a causal agent in disease . Finally , we make conclusions and address future perspectives of dynamic three-dimensional genome ( 4D nucelome ) research .
Venous malformations ( VMs ) are vascular anomalies lacking curative treatments , often caused by somatic PIK3CA mutations that hyperactivate the PI3Kalpha-AKT-mTOR signaling pathway . Here , we identify a venous-specific signaling circuit driving disease progression , where excessive PI3Kalpha activity amplifies upstream TIE2 receptor signaling through autocrine and paracrine mechanisms . In Pik3ca ( H1047R ) -driven VM mouse models , single-cell transcriptomics and lineage tracking revealed clonal expansion of mutant endothelial cells with a post-capillary venous phenotype , characterized by suppression of the AKT-inhibited FOXO1 and its target genes , including the TIE2 antagonist ANGPT An imbalance in TIE2 ligands , likely exacerbated by aberrant recruitment of smooth muscle cells producing the agonist ANGPT1 , increased TIE2 activity in both mouse and human VMs . While mTOR blockade had limited effects on advanced VMs in mice , inhibiting TIE2 or ANGPT effectively suppressed their growth . These findings uncover a PI3K-FOXO1-ANGPT-TIE2 circuit as a core driver of PIK3CA-related VMs and highlight TIE2 as a promising therapeutic target .
Neuronal ferroptosis plays a vital role in the progression of neonatal hypoxic-ischemic brain damage ( HIBD ) . M2-type microglia-derived exosomes ( M2-exos ) have been shown to protect neurons from ischemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) brain injury , but their impact on I/R-induced neuronal ferroptosis and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood . In this study , we used an in vitro oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation ( OGD/R ) model in HT-22 neuronal cells to investigate how M2-exos modulate ferroptosis . We found that M2-exos were internalized by HT-22 cells and significantly attenuated OGD/R-induced ferroptosis . Mechanistically , M2-exos enhanced mitophagy , which was mediated by the upregulation of FUN14 domain-containing protein 1 ( FUNDC1 ) , thereby inhibiting ferroptosis . Further analysis revealed that M2-exos activated FUNDC1-dependent mitophagy through the AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) /UNC-51-like kinase 1 ( ULK1 ) signaling pathway . Taken together , these findings suggest that M2-exos ameliorate I/R-induced neuronal ferroptosis by enhancing FUNDC1-mediated mitophagy through the activation of AMPK/ULK1 signaling pathway .
Agouti Related Peptide ( AgRP ) neurons are located in the hypothalamus , and upon stimulation , these neurons regulate hunger and hunger-mediated behaviors , especially food-seeking and compulsive eating . AgRP neurons are naturally activated by ghrelin binding onto the ghrelin receptors on the neuron surface during starvation or fasting state to evoke the aforementioned behaviors . In this study , we used channelrhodopsin ( ChR2 ) , an optogenetic actuator , to control AgRP neuronal activity . For the first time , we observed food-intake behavior in zebrafish larvae by optogenetically triggering AgRP1 neurons . We created a transgenic line , Tg ( AgRP1 : ChR2-Kaede ) , where ChR2-Kaede is expressed in AgRP1 neurons . Transgenic zebrafish Tg ( AgRP1 : ChR2-Kaede ) larvae at 6 days post fertilization and wild-type ( ABWT ) larvae were used to compare the suction behavior . We found that AgRP1 neuron activation in transgenic larvae led to a significantly higher food-consumption behavior than wildtype larvae when analyzed using Particle Image Velocimetry ( PIV ) to calculate the food particle velocity initiated by larval suction behavior . These findings in this novel transgenic zebrafish model would be useful in studying various hunger-related behaviors , their underlying neural circuits , and substrates subjected to different chemical stimuli , including drugs of abuse .
Biallelic inactivating variants in ZNF142 underlie a clinically variable neurodevelopmental disorder . ZNF142 is a zinc-finger transcription factor with potential roles on chromatin organization , implying a possible association of ZNF142 loss of function with perturbed genome-wide DNA methylation ( DNAm ) pattern . We performed EPIC array-based methylation profiling of peripheral blood-derived DNA samples from 27 individuals with biallelic ZNF142 inactivating variants , together with 6 heterozygous carriers and 40 controls . A DNAm signature discovery pipeline was applied by using 440 controls for discovery and validation analyses , and a machine-learning model was trained to classify 8 individuals carrying ZNF142 variants of uncertain clinical significance . Analyses directed to explore the genome-wide DNAm landscape in affected individuals revealed 88 differentially methylated probes constituting the minimal informative set specific to ZNF142 loss of function . This reproducible pattern of DNAm changes involved regulatory regions of a small number of genes . The DNAm signature derived from peripheral blood allowed us to diagnose individuals carrying biallelic inactivating ZNF142 variants when applied to fibroblasts . Our findings provide evidence that biallelic loss-of-function ZNF142 variants result in a specific and robust DNAm signature . The identified DNAm pattern suggests occurrence of a methylation disturbance involving a small number of loci that appears to be shared by different cell lineages .
Glycosaminoglycan ( GAG ) -binding proteins regulating essential processes such as cell growth and migration are essential for cell homeostasis . As both GAGs and the lipid A disaccharide core of Gram-negative bacteria contain negatively charged disaccharide units , we hypothesized that GAG-binding proteins could also recognize LPS and enclose cryptic antibiotic motifs . Here , we report novel antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) derived from heparin-binding proteins ( HBPs ) , with specific activity against Gram-negative bacteria and high LPS binding . We used computational tools to locate antimicrobial regions in 82% of HBPs , most of those colocalizing with putative heparin-binding sites . To validate these results , we synthesized five candidates [HBP-1-5] that showed remarkable activity against Gram-negative bacteria , as well as a strong correlation between heparin and LPS binding . Structural characterization of these AMPs shows that heparin or LPS recognition promotes a conformational arrangement that favors binding . Among all analogs , HBP-5 displayed the highest affinity for both heparin and LPS , with antimicrobial activities against Gram-negative bacteria at the nanomolar range . These results suggest that GAG-binding proteins are involved in LPS recognition , which allows them to act also as antimicrobial proteins . Some of the peptides reported here , particularly HBP-5 , constitute a new class of AMPs with specific activity against Gram-negative bacteria .
In most metazoans , centrosome elimination during oogenesis ensures accurate centriole inheritance in the zygote , yet the molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood . Here , we reveal a critical role for controlled SAS-6 phosphorylation in centrosome dynamics during oogenesis . Centrioles disassemble during late meiotic prophase , while the cartwheel protein SAS-6 exhibits dynamic behavior in early meiotic prophase . Purified SAS-6 undergoes phase separation in vitro , and overexpressed SAS-6 forms droplets in cells . Mass spectrometry and kinase assays reveal that SAS-6 is phosphorylated at its C-terminus in cells and in vivo , with CDK-1 identified as a direct kinase . This phosphorylation inhibits SAS-6 phase separation and weakens interactions between centriolar proteins . SAS-6 degradation confirms its role in centrosome stability , and CDK-1 activity is required for timely centriole disassembly . Phospho-mimetic and phospho-deficient mutants demonstrate that dynamic SAS-6 phosphorylation is essential for centrosome assembly and elimination . We propose that the disordered C-terminus of SAS-6 facilitates cartwheel stacking via multivalent weak interactions , promoting centriole stability . Phosphorylation disrupts these interactions , impairing centrosome duplication and promoting elimination during oogenesis .
Drug resistance develops frequently after colorectal carcinoma ( CRC ) surgery , indicating the urgent need for new therapeutic strategies . Taletrectinib ( DS-6051b/AB-106 ) , a synthetic ROS1/NTRK inhibitor which has shown meaningful antitumor activity , is currently undergoing clinical trials aimed at addressing targeted resistance . However , the anti-cancer effect of taletrectinib on CRC remains unclear . In this study , our purpose was to evaluate taletrectinib-related cytotoxicity in vitro using two CRC cell lines , as well as in vivo in a mouse tumor model . The mechanism underlying the cytotoxicity of taletrectinib was evaluated using light microscopy , scanning electron microscopy , immunofluorescence assays , an annexin V-FITC/propidium iodide detection , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) release assays , and western blotting . We found that the viability of CRC cells decreased with increasing concentrations of taletrectinib . In addition , transcriptome sequencing indicated that HCT116 and LOVO cell lines did not carry ROS1- or NTRK-related gene fusions and that the cytotoxic effect of taletrectinib was exerted via caspase-3/gasdermin E ( GSDME ) -dependent pyroptosis . Moreover , the effect of taletrectinib in promoting pyroptosis was reversed by treatment with the SRC agonist , tolimidone , both in vitro and in vivo . Overall , our findings suggest that taletrectinib suppresses tumor growth by inducing GSDME-mediated pyroptosis via the SRC/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway , indicating that taletrectinib shows potential as a promising therapeutic agent against CRC .
Intestinal fibrosis represents a clinically intractable complication in colitis management . This study elucidates the regulatory mechanisms by which bone mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes ( BMSC-Exo ) modulate the myofibroblastic transdifferentiation of intestinal fibroblast . BMSC-Exo was isolated and characterized . RNA sequencing was performed on TGF-beta-activated CCD-18Co fibroblasts following BMSC-Exo intervention . Histopathology , immunoblotting , migration assays , and imaging techniques ( immunofluorescence/immunohistochemistry ) were employed to quantify extracellular matrix ( ECM ) deposition and fibrotic responses in both in vitro and murine models . Human colonic specimens from Crohn ' s disease ( CD ) patients with structuring complications were analyzed for fibrotic components . BMSC-Exo was successfully isolated . BMSC-Exo treatment significantly attenuated fibroblast activation and migratory capacity , concomitant with downregulating collagen I and N-cadherin expression . In vivo , histological fibrosis score , collagen deposition , and alpha-SMA expression were significantly decreased after BMSC-Exo administration . Transcriptomic profiling revealed significant enrichment of ECM remodeling pathways following BMSC-Exo intervention , with connective tissue growth factor ( CCN2 ) identified as a pivotal mediator . Functional validation through CCN2 overexpression demonstrated the mechanistic dependence of BMSC-Exo ' s anti-fibrotic effects on the CCN2-TGF-beta axis . Clinical specimens revealed a marked increase in collagen fiber deposition and co-upregulation of CCN2 in stenotic CD tissues compared to non-strictured regions . BMSC-Exo exerts potent anti-fibrotic effects through the suppression of fibroblast differentiation , mediated by targeted inhibition of the CCN2-TGF-beta signaling nexus . These findings establish exosome-based therapy as a novel therapeutic strategy for intestinal fibrosis .
This study explored the in vitro alleviation of the soluble and non-digestible Chinese yam polysaccharides ( YP ) with covalent selenite-grafting on the nonylphenol-induced cytotoxicity and barrier damage in rat intestinal epithelial ( IEC-6 ) cells . Two grafted products YPSe-I and particularly YPSe-II possessed much higher Se contents than YP ( 803 and 486 versus 037 g/kg ) , could alleviate the cytotoxicity of nonylphenol by causing higher cell viability but lower lactate dehydrogenase release and ROS production , and were capable of repairing the induced barrier damage through increasing transepithelial electrical resistance , reducing paracellular permeability , promoting the production and distribution of cytoskeleton F-actin , and up-regulating the expression levels of three tight junction proteins namely zonula occludens-1 , occludin , and claudin- Meanwhile , the expression levels of two proteins namely p-p38 and p-JNK in the cells , which are crucial to the activation of the MAPK signaling pathway , were up-regulated by nonylphenol but down-regulated by YPSe-I and YPSe-II . The results consistently confirmed that YP and YPSe-II exhibited the respective lowest and highest activities in the cells to alleviate the nonylphenol-induced cytotoxicity and barrier damage , declaring that both YP selenization and higher selenite-grafting extent were the critical factors controlling the measured activities of YPSe-I and YPSe-II . Collectively , this selenite-grafting of YP endowed the selenized products with higher activity in the cells to reduce nonylphenol-induced cytotoxicity , especially to alleviate the induced barrier damage by inactivating the MAPK signaling pathway .
Far-ultraviolet C ( Far-UVC ) radiation , with a wavelength range from 200 to 235 nm , is germicidal and holds potential for clinical applications . However , its use against deep-seated and internal infections , such as those affecting the lungs , remains less well established . The safety profile of Far-UVC irradiation requires further investigation across different human tissues . In this study , we utilised a krypton-chloride excimer lamp and a pulsed laser system to examine the effects of Far-UVC irradiation on human lung cells in vitro and primary human tracheal tissue . Primary human tracheal tissue and cells exposed to continuous wave ( 222 nm ) and pulsed 206 nm and 222 nm light at doses of 5 , 25 , and 50 mJ/cm exhibited DNA damage , including phosphorylation of gammaH2AX ( Ser139 ) . The continuous wave and pulsed 222 nm irradiation caused the formation of pyrimidine-pyrimidone ( 6-4 ) photoproducts . Irradiated human lung cells demonstrated reduced viability in vitro , and increased lactate dehydrogenase release into the culture medium 48 h post-irradiation . Our findings reveal that even low doses of Far-UVC ( 206 nm , 222 nm ) light can penetrate monolayers of human lung epithelial cells , causing direct DNA damage in the form of ( 6 -4 ) photoproducts and DNA double-strand breaks , ultimately leading to cell death .
Mesh adhesion is an important complication in prosthetic hernia repairs which may lead to intestinal obstruction , enterocutaneous fistula and viscus perforation . Therefore , direct contact between visceral organs and mesh should be avoided . The aim of this study was to investigate the efficacy of platelet rich fibrin ( PRF ) as an adhesion barrier . Thirty-six Wistar-Albino rats were used in the study . Four rats were used to obtain platelet-rich fibrin . Remaining rats were divided to four separate groups . In sham group , abdominal wall was repaired by suture without mesh following laparotomy . Abdominal walls of remaining rats were excised for about 2 cm in length with margins 2 cm wide . The defect was repaired with polypropylene mesh , Parietex composite mesh , or PRF coated polypropylene mesh in three separate groups . Rats were sacrificed on the 14th postoperative day . Macroscopic Zuhlke and Greca adhesion scores , histopathological fibrosis grading and multinucleated giant cells were evaluated . There was statistically significant difference of adhesion scores of Zuhlke ( p = 013 ) and Greca ( p < 001 ) between all groups . It was observed that the adhesion score in the platelet-rich fibrin group was lower than the polypropylene mesh group ( p = 003 ) , and there was no significant difference between the composite mesh group and the PRF group ( p = 13 ) . Fibroblast density and degree of fibrosis were higher in the platelet-rich fibrin group than in the polypropylene group ( p < 001 ) , but there was no significant difference with the composite mesh group . Giant cell formation , an indicator of inflammation , was significantly higher in the platelet-rich fibrin group than in the polypropylene mesh group ( p = 001 ) , and it was significantly less than in the composite mesh group ( p = 007 ) . Platelet-rich fibrin significantly reduces the incidence of adhesion to polypropylene meshes in the early postoperative period and enhances fibrosis at the mesh-abdominal wall interface . Acting as a biological barrier , platelet-rich fibrin shows potential as an alternative to composite meshes and antiadhesive barriers .
Ovarian cancer ( OC ) poses significant treatment challenges due to late-stage diagnosis and a complex tumor microenvironment contributing to therapy resistance . We optimized a U-CUP perfusion-based bioreactor method to culture patient-derived primary and metastatic OC specimens , demonstrating that perfusion better preserves cancer cell viability and proliferation , both when fresh and slow-frozen tissues were used . Perfused cultures maintained key microenvironment components , including cancer-associated fibroblasts , endothelial and immune cells . Genetic analysis confirmed the retention in culture of tumor-specific driver mutations . We hence challenged ad hoc generated cisplatin-sensitive and resistant OC cells with cisplatin during growth in U-CUP , validating our system for the testing of drug response . Finally , treatment of slow-frozen OC tissues with carboplatin/paclitaxel revealed different degrees of response to treatment , as indicated by variations in tumor necrosis and number of residual PAX8 ( + ) cells , providing the bases for the prompt evaluation of OC standard chemotherapy efficacy in our ex vivo system .
The expanding complexity of modern energy systems and the increasing integration of renewable sources make stable load frequency control ( LFC ) in interconnected power networks a continuing issue . Traditional controllers , such as proportional-integral ( PI ) , proportional-integral-derivative ( PID ) , and other subordinate control methods , frequently fail to control frequency adequately , especially in multi-source generating systems . Furthermore , standard optimization techniques may exhibit sluggish convergence and inefficient tuning , limiting their usefulness in real-time applications . To address these problems , this study suggest an enhanced LFC framework for a three-area power system that includes thermal-biodiesel ( Area-1 ) , thermal ( Area-2 ) , and hydro-thermal ( Area-3 ) components . The African Vulture Optimization Algorithm ( AVOA ) is used to improve a novel PI ( FOPD ) controller that combines integer-order PI with fractional-order Proportional Derivative ( FOPD ) . According to a comparative investigation , the AVOA-augmented PI ( FOPD ) controller outperforms conventional I , PI , and PID controllers in terms of transient responsiveness , stability , and convergence . Additionally , AVOA outperforms optimization approaches such as Cuckoo Search , Particle Swarm Optimization , and the Firefly Algorithm . The integration of a Dish-Stirling solar thermal system , a Flexible AC Transmission System ( FACTS ) device , and an energy storage component improves system robustness . The results show that the AVOA-optimized PI ( FOPD ) controller greatly enhances LFC performance , making it a promising alternative for current power networks .
Radio-resistance of cancer stem-like cells ( CSCs ) is associated with the failure of radiation therapy . ZsGreen1-positive ( ZsG ( + ) ) cells , which exhibit low proteasome activity , have been used to enable the detection and isolation of CSCs . However , the mechanisms of radio-resistance in canine tumor cells with low proteasome activity remain unclear . This study aimed to elucidate the radio-resistance mechanisms of ZsG ( + ) cells by identifying a potential target of canine CSCs . ZsG ( + ) cells , isolated using flow cytometric cell sorting , were compared with ZsG ( - ) cells . Sulfasalazine was used to suppress glutathione ( GSH ) synthesis by inhibiting xCT . In vitro experiments demonstrated a significantly higher radio-resistance in ZsG ( + ) cells than in ZsG ( - ) cells . After X-irradiation , ZsG ( + ) cells had fewer p53binding protein 1 ( 53BP1 ) foci , low reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) accumulation , and high GSH content . Sulfasalazine caused radiosensitization of ZsG ( + ) cells with an increased number of 53BP1 foci by decreasing GSH contents and increasing ROS accumulation . The low proteasome activity played a role in xCT upregulation . In conclusion , canine tumor cells with low proteasome activity are radio-resistant due to high GSH content and low ROS accumulation . Sulfasalazine causes radiosensitization of the tumor cells by altering redox balance by inhibiting GSH synthesis for effective targeting of canine CSCs .
Declining soil fertility due to unstable cultivation practices is a major challenge , particularly under water-limited conditions , leading to reduced crop productivity . Identifying sustainable soil amendments that enhance plant resilience and improve soil properties is crucial for ensuring food security in arid and semi-arid regions . Among these , activated acacia biochar has shown potential in improving soil quality . A pot-scale experiment was conducted to evaluate the effects of four different soil amendments i . e . , biochar amended soil ( BAS ) , vermicompost amended soil ( VCAS ) , perlite amended soil ( PAS ) , activated biochar amended soil ( ABAS ) on wheat physiology and yield under moisture stress conditions . Soil amendments were incorporated at 5% and 5% ( dry weight basis ) by through mixing . Two water regimes were applied from booting to grain filling : ( i ) optimal moisture ( 80% of field capacity , FC ) ( ii ) moisture stress ( 50% of FC ) . The highest improvement in water holding capacity was observed in soil amended with 5% ABAS which increased by 31% ( 3 +/- 72 ) compared to non-amended soil ( NAS ) . Under 50% FC , plants grown in 5% and 5% ABAS exhibited significantly higher total chlorophyll content ( 11% ) , stomatal area ( 42% ) , stomatal aperture ( 29% ) , and guard cell area ( 44% ) than NAS . The maximum increase in photosynthetic rate ( threefold and 2-fold higher ) and transpiration rates ( threefold and 2-fold higher ) were observed in plants of 5% BAS and 5% ABAS , respectively than NAS . However , the highest improvement in water use efficiency ( 52% ) was observed in the plants of 5% ABAS than NAS . Leaf nutrient assessment showed a 4% and 6-fold increase in percent weight of carbon and phosphorus in the plants of BAS , 75% higher sodium in PAS , 139% higher calcium in VCAS , and 5% higher nitrogen and 58% higher magnesium in ABAS than NAS . Additionally , the highest accumulation of metabolites including amides , polysaccharides , lignin and waxes , was recorded in plants grown in amended soil , particularly in ABAS . Regarding yield attributes , plants grown in 5% and 5% ABAS had significantly ( p < 05 ) higher leaf area ( 84-85% ) , spike length ( 89-93% ) , spikelet per spike ( 139-166% ) , and 1000 grain weight ( 133-157% ) under 50% FC compared to NAS . In conclusion , activated biochar considerably enhances plant physio-biochemical attributes and yield under water stress conditions . Its applications may be recommended for farmers in arid regions to mitigate the adverse effects of water scarcity .
Tick-borne encephalitis ( TBE ) is one of the most important tick-transmitted diseases in Europe and Asia . With no specific antiviral treatment available , vaccination remains the most effective protective strategy for TBE . Unlike currently available inactivated TBE vaccines that require repeated boosters , live-attenuated vaccines could offer lifelong immunity with a single dose . Langat virus ( LGTV ) is a naturally attenuated strain of TBE virus ( TBEV ) . In this study , we engineered and rescued four infectious clones ( ICs ) of LGTV using RNA- and DNA-based reverse genetics methods . The ICs rescued by DNA-based method showed higher genetic stability in cell culture . One of the ICs rescued by DNA-based method was further evaluated in vitro and in vivo , which exhibited growth kinetics and immune profile comparable to the LGTV strain in our laboratory . This reverse genetics platform will be utilized to introduce targeted mutations within the LGTV genome to develop a live-attenuated TBE vaccine .
Bladder cancer diagnosis is a challenging task because of its intricacy and variation of tumor features . Moreover , morphological similarities of the cancerous cells make manual diagnosis time-consuming . Recently , machine learning and deep learning methods have been utilized to diagnose bladder cancer . However , manual feature requirements for machine learning and the high volume of data for deep learning make them less reliable for real-time application . This study developed a hybrid model using CNN ( Convolutional Neural Network ) and less attention-based ViT ( Vision Transformer ) for bladder lesion diagnosis . Our hybrid model contains two blocks of the inceptionV3 to extract spatial features . Furthermore , the global co-relation of the features is achieved using hybrid attention modules incorporated in the ViT encoder . The experimental evaluation of the model on a dataset consisting of 17 , 540 endoscopic images achieved an average accuracy , precision and F1-score of 73% , 21% and 86% , respectively , using a 5-fold cross-validation strategy . We compared the results of the proposed method with CNN and ViT-based methods under the same experimental condition , and we achieved much better performance than our counterparts .
Fibrosis is involved in 45% of deaths in the United States , and no treatment exists to reverse progression of the disease . To find novel targets for fibrosis therapeutics , we developed a model for the differentiation of monocytes to myofibroblasts that allowed us to screen for proteins involved in myofibroblast differentiation . Inhibition of a novel protein target generated by our model , talin2 , reduces myofibroblast-specific morphology , alpha-smooth muscle actin content , and collagen I content and lowers the pro-fibrotic secretome of myofibroblasts . We find that knockdown of talin2 de-differentiates myofibroblasts and reverses bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis in mice , and further that Tln2 ( -/- ) mice are resistant to bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis and resistant to unilateral ureteral obstruction-induced kidney fibrosis . Talin2 inhibition is thus a potential treatment for reversing lung and kidney fibroses .
Plasma-mediated bacterial inactivation holds great promise but presents several challenges . This study investigates the antibacterial effect of 45 GHz non-thermal microwave ( MW ) plasma on Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) and Salmonella abony ( S . abony ) suspended in phosphate-buffered saline ( PBS ) . A 6-log reduction in both bacterial strains was achieved within 300 s of plasma exposure . The enhanced inactivation is attributed to elevated levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , particularly ( . ) OH ( 30% in S . aureus , 13% in S . abony ) and HO ( 27% in S . aureus , and 84% in S . abony ) , which caused oxidative stress and membrane depolarization , detected via fluorescence spectrofluorometry . Morphological changes were confirmed through field emission scanning electron microscopy ( FE-SEM ) . Membrane impairment led to leakage of intracellular contents such as proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids . DNA damage was evident from hyperchromic effects observed at 260 nm . Confocal microscopy revealed a qualitative increase in red fluorescent ( dead ) cells with longer exposure . Flow cytometry further quantified the dead cells at 88% in S . aureus and 95% in S . abony . These findings provide comprehensive insight into the bacterial inactivation mechanism and demonstrate the strong potential of non-thermal MW plasma for applications in sterilization , infection control , and food safety .
The expression of ubiquitin-like molecule interferon-stimulated gene 15 kDa ( ISG15 ) and its post-translational modification ( ISGylation ) are significantly activated by interferons or pathogen infections , highlighting their roles in innate immune responses . Over 1100 proteins have been identified as ISGylated . ISG15 is removed from substrates by interferon-induced ubiquitin-specific peptidase 18 ( USP18 ) or severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2-derived papain-like protease . High ISGylation levels may help prevent the spread of coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) . Polyamines ( spermidine and spermine ) exhibit anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and mitochondrial functions . However , the relationship between nutrients and ISGylation remains unclear . This study assessed the effects of spermine and spermidine on ISGylation . MCF10A and A549 cells were treated with interferon-alpha , spermine , or spermidine , and the expression levels of various proteins and ISGylation were measured . Spermine and spermidine dose-dependently reduced ISGylation . Additionally , spermidine directly interacted with ISG15 and USP18 , enhancing their interaction and potentially reducing ISGylation . Therefore , spermidine may prevent ISGylation-related immune responses .
Biallelic mutations in the DCPS gene disrupting the decapping activity of the scavenger decapping protein DcpS , leads to neurodevelopmental deficiencies and intellectual disability . However , the molecular basis for the neurogenesis defects in these individuals remains unknown . Here we show that cells derived from individuals with a DCPS mutation harbor a creatine deficiency and a corresponding elevation of the creatine precursor , guanidinoacetate ( GAA ) . The altered metabolite levels are a consequence of a reduction in both the mRNA and protein levels for the enzyme that converts GAA into creatine , guanidinoacetate methyltransferase . Importantly , the compromised neurogenesis and neurite outgrowth phenotypes observed during the differentiation of DcpS mutant patient derived induced pluripotent stem cells into neurons was reversed upon supplementation of creatine monohydrate . These findings suggest creatine deficiency as an underlying factor for the neurogenetic defect detected in DcpS mutant cells and a potential driver of the neurological deficiencies in affected individuals .
BACKGROUND : Accumulating evidence suggests that deregulation of DNA damage response ( DDR ) network affects multiple aspects of the immune system . Herein , we tested the hypothesis that DDR-related signals , measured in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) from Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma ( HNSCC ) patients , correlate with the response to immune checkpoint inhibitors . METHODS : Oxidative stress and DDR-related signals were evaluated in PBMCs from 26 healthy controls and 50 recurrent/metastatic HNSCC patients at baseline , who participated in a phase II nivolumab trial ( NCT03652142 ) . Spatial transcriptomics in three molecularly defined tissue compartments ( tumour , leucocyte , macrophage ) from biopsies of overlapping cases were also investigated . RESULTS : PBMCs from responders to nivolumab therapy showed significantly lower oxidative stress , endogenous DNA damage , DNA repair capacities and apoptosis rates compared with non-responders ( all P < 04 ) . The analysis of tissue RNA in situ data illustrated that DNA repair pathways showed enrichment in the macrophage compartment of baseline tissue biopsies of responders compared with non-responders ( P = 049 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings demonstrate that oxidative stress and deregulated DDR-related signals measured in PBMCs from HNSCC patients at baseline correlate with response to nivolumab and , if further validated , may be exploited as novel non-invasive biomarkers and the design of clinical trials .
Rosacea is treated among others by doxycycline and sodium bituminosulfonate dry substance ( SBDS ) . We addressed the molecular mechanism ( s ) underlying the therapeutic benefit of SBDS and doxycycline . Therefore , we investigated whether SBDS or doxycycline regulates the expression of signal molecules relevant for inflammatory and angiogenic effects . Cyclooxygenase 1 ( COX1 ) and COX2 activity assays were assessed in primary human monocytes . The release of nitric oxide ( NO ) and their synthesizing enzyme inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) , VEGF and LL37 release were determined in lung epithelial cells A549 , mast cells HMC 2 or in normal human epidermal keratinocytes ( NHEKs ) , respectively . The IC values of SBDS for the inhibition of recombinant human COX-1 and COX-2 were 9 and 3 microg/ml , respectively . In an inflammatory state ( COX-2 expression ) 100 microg/ml SBDS reduced PGE and TXB release in primary human monocytes . 25 microg/ml SBDS inhibited the mRNA and protein expression of iNOS . Moreover , 50 microg/ml SBDS and 30 microg/ml doxycycline inhibited the release of VEGF in an inflammatory state in HMC 2 cells . Both drugs did not affect LL37 release . Doxycycline did not affect intracellular NO levels and iNOS expression . SBDS and doxycycline mediate anti-inflammatory and anti-angiogenic effects through similar but also different signaling molecules .
Resistance to treatment , which comes from the heterogeneity of cell types within tumors , is a leading cause of poor treatment outcomes in cancer patients . Previous mathematical work modeling cancer over time has neither emphasized the relationship between cell heterogeneity and treatment resistance nor depicted heterogeneity with sufficient nuance . To respond to the need to depict a wide range of resistance levels , we develop a random differential equation model of tumor growth . Random differential equations are differential equations in which the parameters are random variables . In the inverse problem , we aim to recover the sensitivity to treatment as a probability mass function . This allows us to observe what proportions of cells exist at different sensitivity levels . After validating the method with synthetic data , we apply it to monoclonal and mixture cell population data of isogenic Ba/F3 murine cell lines to uncover each tumor ' s levels of sensitivity to treatment as a probability mass function .
Accurate prediction of prognosis and postoperative radiotherapy response is critical for personalized treatment in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) . We developed a multimodal deep learning model ( MDLM ) integrating computed tomography , whole-slide images , and clinical features from 1087 HNSCC patients across multiple centers . The MDLM exhibited good performance in predicting overall survival ( OS ) and disease-free survival in external test cohorts . Additionally , the MDLM outperformed unimodal models . Patients with a high-risk score who underwent postoperative radiotherapy exhibited prolonged OS compared to those who did not ( P = 016 ) , whereas no significant improvement in OS was observed among patients with a low-risk score ( P = 898 ) . Biological exploration indicated that the model may be related to changes in the cytochrome P450 metabolic pathway , tumor microenvironment , and myeloid-derived cell subpopulations . Overall , the MDLM effectively predicts prognosis and postoperative radiotherapy response , offering a promising tool for personalized HNSCC therapy .
Several factors can contribute to cancer development . Various methods are in use for cancer treatment , although their complications can be a cause of concern . Artemisia vulgaris L . is a medicinal herb proposed for treating several diseases , including cancer . This study investigated the inhibition activity of A . vulgaris on Bhas 42 , a cell used to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of chemicals due to its ability to recapitulate to some extent of the multi-stage cell transformation process . Ethanolic extract of A . vulgaris was used to examine cytotoxicity and transformation inhibition activity on Bhas Bhas 42 cells were induced by a cancer stimulator , 3-methylcholanthrene ( MCA ) or cancer promotor , 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( TPA ) , with and without A . vulgaris at various concentrations and date of addition . A . vulgaris can inhibit Bhas 42 cell transformation due to its smaller proportion of the transformed cells than those treated with only MCA or TPA . The most effective transformed foci inhibition condition was selected for proteomic assay . The proteomic study results also showed that the proteins related to the regulation of cancer cells , such as cancer development , proliferation , migration , transformation , and invasion of A . vulgaris treated groups , were dysregulated . Studies on the effects of A . vulgaris extract showed its ability to inhibit the transformation to cancer cells . However , further studies are required to understand these mechanisms better .
Despite advances triple negative breast cancer treatment , ~50% of patients will not achieve a pathological complete response prior to surgery with standard of care neoadjuvant therapy ( NAT ) . We hypothesize that personalized regimens for NAT could significantly improve patient outcomes , which we address with a patient-specific digital twin framework . This framework is established by calibrating a biology-based model to longitudinal magnetic resonance images with approximate Bayesian computation . We then apply optimal control theory to either reduce the final tumor cell number with equivalent dose , or reduce the total dose of NAT with equivalent response . For , the personalized regimens ( n = 50 ) achieved a median ( range ) reduction in the final tumor cell number of 62% ( 00-36% ) . For , the personalized regimens achieved a median reduction in dose delivered of 62% ( 00-55% ) when compared to the standard-of-care regimen , while providing statistically equivalent tumor control .
We show that T cells in survivors of childhood leukemia exhibit distinct profiles dominated by aging-associated changes and consistent with premature immune aging . Immune profiles during survivorship in biospecimens ( n = 251 ) from uniformly-treated children with B-acute lymphoblastic leukemia recapitulate heterogeneity at diagnosis in individual patients and correlate with genetic-risk subtypes . These data suggest that pre-therapy immune aging may determine variance in immune status during survivorship .
Neoplastic transformation is accompanied by critical changes in cell mechanical properties , including reduced cell elasticity . By leveraging such mechanical flaw , exposure to low intensity therapeutic ultrasounds ( LITUS ) has been proposed as a tool for selective killing of cancer cells . Here , we have developed dynamic models to address the morpho-mechanical differences between prostate cancer and non-tumoral counterparts and studied the effects of LITUS on cell viability . We show that LITUS exposure ( 1 MHz ) leads to cancer-selective cytoskeletal disruption associated to loss of nuclear envelope integrity , DNA damage marked by gammaH2AX and 53BP1 foci , and release of DNA into the cytosol with activation of the cGAS-STING signaling cascade . Mechanistically , the LINC complex , which connects the cytoskeleton to nucleoskeleton and chromosomes , is critical to mediate nuclear rupture triggered by LITUS . Accordingly , genetic ablation of the LINC component SUN2 tuned down DNA damage and cGAS-STING signaling while the inactivation of the endosomal sorting complex ( ESCRT ) , required for the transport machinery that preserves the nuclear envelope integrity , enhanced cell killing by LITUS . In conclusion , LITUS induce cancer cell DNA damage and an innate immune response , this suggesting LITUS treatment as a mechanobiology-driven anti-neoplastic strategy .
Wounds are common in equine practice , and often lead to complications such as infections , delayed healing and hypertrophic scarring , which can be costly and difficult to manage . Developing affordable and effective treatments has become an increasingly important focus in veterinary research . Equine advanced-platelet-rich fibrin plus ( A-PRF+ ) demonstrates regenerative properties comparable to its human counterpart , but cellular-level investigations exploring its molecular mechanisms remain limited . This study aimed to investigate the in vitro effects of equine A-PRF + on primary fibroblast cell cultures . The secretome analysis of A-PRF + revealed a complex protein profile involved in matrix remodelling , cell proliferation , and inflammation . Treatment with this platelet concentrate resulted in increased cell proliferation , enhanced migration , and significant changes in cell cycle progression compared to control groups . Reactive oxygen species production and organelles metabolism stimulation were observed , indicating active cellular responses , as well as an increase in genes and proteins associated with cell proliferation and wound regeneration . Proteomic analysis of treated fibroblasts confirmed the differential expression of key proteins associated with extracellular matrix dynamics and tissue regeneration processes . These findings provide insights into the molecular profile and functional responses of equine fibroblasts exposed to A-PRF + , contributing to our understanding of its cellular effects , supporting further exploration of this product in regenerative medicine applications .
The purpose of this study was to assess the effects of UDP-glycosyltransferases ( UGTs ) on alleviating the toxic effects of deoxynivalenol ( DON ) on Kunming mouse growth performance and gut damage . In this study , a total of 60 3-week-old male Kunming mice were randomly divided into 4 groups and fed the following dietary and drug treatments for 7 weeks : CON , basal diet ; CTX , basal diet with i . p . injection of cyclophosphamide ( CTX ) ; CTX + DON , basal diet with 12 mg/kg DON and i . p . injection of cyclophosphamide ; and CTX + DON + UGTs , basal diet with 12 mg/kg DON and UGTs 1 mg/kg and i . p . injection of cyclophosphamide . Compared with those in the CON group , the growth performance , serum immunoglobulin contents ( IgG ) , antioxidant defense enzyme activities ( SOD ) , intestinal barrier integrity and permeability ( the ratio of villi length to crypt depth ) , tight junction proteins ( occludin and claudin 5 ) expression , intestinal cell apoptosis ( Bcl-2 ) , and histopathological lesions in the guts of the DON- and CTX-treated mice were significantly lower ( p < 05 ) . These negative effects on DON-exposed mice were significantly mitigated when the mice received a UGT-supplemented diet ( 1 mg/kg ) ( p < 05 ) . We concluded that UGTs could serve as dietary supplements to treat intestinal disorders associated with DON-induced growth-retardation in animals .
Recent research underscores the crucial role of hormone regulation in benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) and the therapeutic promise of growth hormone-releasing hormone ( GH-RH ) antagonists . BPH incidence in aging men doubled over three decades , driven by prostatic enlargement and lower urinary tract symptoms ( LUTS ) . Aging-related changes in GH-RH and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone ( LH-RH ) biology promote BPH through hormonal and inflammatory processes . Traditional therapies provide symptomatic relief but often fail to prevent progression . This review explores the 50-year extensive development of LH-RH and GH-RH peptide analogs from discovery to delivery and their potential in BPH treatment . In preclinical studies , GH-RH antagonists reduced prostate volume , improved LUTS , and modulated inflammation mediated by NF-kappaB and IGF-I . Clinical trials are needed to validate antagonist efficacy and safety . Given BPH ' s public health impact among the aged , and especially among aging Veterans , integrating GH-RH antagonists into management strategies may offer precision-based therapeutic advancements .
Sulfur comproportionation , the coupled oxidation of sulfide and reduction of sulfate to elemental sulfur , is a heretofore undiscovered microbial catabolism that has been predicted based on thermodynamic calculations . Here , we report the isolation of an Acidithiobacillus thiooxidans strain that grew to cell densities of > 10 cells mL ( -1 ) in autotrophic sulfur comproportionation medium . It was isolated from extremely low pH snottite biofilms in the sulfidic karst at Frasassi , Italy . The organism ' s genome sequence revealed the presence of numerous genes involved in sulfur transformations that could be linked in a sulfur comproportionation pathway . Future investigations of this novel link in the biogeochemical sulfur cycle could include monitoring of the concentrations of sulfate , sulfide , and elemental sulfur during growth to learn whether they are consistent with stoichiometric ratios expected for sulfur comproportionation . In addition , stable and radioisotope incubations coupled with NanoSIMS , scintillation counting , and isotope ratio mass spectrometry should reveal that sulfate and sulfide are coupled in a single catabolic reaction to produce elemental sulfur .
Although chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) -caused cardiovascular diseases are frequently reported in clinics , the underlying mechanisms are poorly understood , which is primarily due to a lack of animal models . In this study , we report that CHIKV infection in homozygous interferon alpha/beta receptor-deficient ( ifnar1 ( -/- ) ) and interferon alpha/beta/gamma receptor-deficient ( ifnag ( -/- ) ) mice resulted in high viral loads in the hearts as early as day ( D ) 1 post-infection ( p . i . ) but with 100% mortality within three days p . i . In contrast , the heterozygous ifnar1 ( +/- ) and ifnag ( +/- ) mice survived CHIKV infection and bore higher viral burdens in the heart tissues than the wild-type ( WT ) controls . Immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry revealed that more leukocytes , particularly neutrophils , infiltrated the heart of ifnag ( +/- ) and ifnar1 ( +/- ) mice than WT mice . In addition , the Hematoxylin and Eosin staining analysis showed that CHIKV infection caused vasculitis in the left ventricles on D5 p . i . in both heterozygous groups and the vacuole formation and pyknosis in ifnar1 ( +/- ) mice . Moreover , CHIKV infection may also lead to cardiac fibrosis , as indicated by the upregulation of the expression of the Connective Tissue Growth Factor gene in the hearts of ifnar1 ( +/- ) mice . In summary , our data suggest that the heterozygous ifnar1 ( +/- ) and ifnag ( +/- ) mice are invaluable for studying pathogenesis and testing therapeutic interventions for CHIKV-caused cardiac diseases .
Doxorubicin ( DOX ) is a key chemotherapeutic agent but is also a leading cause of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity ( DIC ) , limiting its clinical use . Akkermansia muciniphila ( A . muciniphila ) , known for its benefits as a probiotic in treating metabolic syndrome , has uncertain effects in the context of DIC . Here , 16S rRNA sequencing of fecal samples from anthracycline-treated patients and DIC mice revealed marked depletion of A . muciniphila . Cardiac transcriptomics , supported by in vitro experiments , showed that A . muciniphila colonization improved mitochondrial function and alleviated DIC by activating the PPARalpha/PGC1alpha signaling pathway in both normal and antibiotic-treated C57BL/6 mice . Further analysis uncovered a restructured microbiome-metabolome network following A . muciniphila administration , which contributed to DIC protection . Notably , A . muciniphila supplementation increased serum levels of the tryptophan metabolite indole-3-propionic acid ( IPA ) , which binds to the cardiac aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) , leading to the activation of the PPARalpha/PGC1alpha signaling pathway . In conclusion , our study sheds light on the potential of A . muciniphila as a probiotic in mitigating DIC .
Neovascular eye diseases represent a major cause of irreversible blindness . Here , we report the specific upregulation of endogenous PRL3 protein in diseased choroid-RPE in choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) mouse model ( male ) , and diseased retina in oxygen-induced retinopathy ( OIR ) mouse model ( mixed gender ) , indicating PRL3 ' s role in neovascularization . Intravenous ( IV ) delivery of anti-PRL3 antibody in CNV model demonstrates superior efficacy in reducing vascular leakage compared to intravitreal ( IVT ) route due to larger dose permitted by IV . VEGF treatment upregulates endogenous PRL3 protein in human retinal microvascular endothelial cells ( HRMECs ) . Retroviral PRL3 overexpression in HRMECs promotes endothelial proliferation , migration and permeability by facilitating the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 , AKT , Paxillin and SRC . However , VEGF-induced proliferation is absent in PRL3-knockout HRMECs . PRL3-zumab , an anti-PRL3 humanized monoclonal antibody , has shown a strong safety profile in ongoing multi-national Phase II trials as an intravenous-administered cancer immunotherapeutic . PRL3 ' s involvement in ocular pathological angiogenesis suggests the potential of repurposing PRL3-zumab to treat neovascular eye diseases .
Male infertility is primarily caused by impaired flagella development , reduced sperm count , and decreased motility . Despite the involvement of many genes in spermatogenesis , the precise processes remain unclear . The critical E3 ubiquitin ligase Rnf126 regulates essential cellular processes through ubiquitination-induced protein degradation . It plays a significant role in DNA repair , immune response , and signaling cascades , underscoring its central importance in maintaining cellular homeostasis . However , the mechanisms by which Rnf126 controls spermatogenesis are not fully understood . This research identifies Rnf126 as a crucial component in sperm flagellar biogenesis and germ cell development . Through genetic lineage tracing , we show that RNF126 is highly expressed in sperm cells and weakly expressed in Sertoli cells . The germ epithelium of RNF126 deficiencies is characterized by a loss of germ cells due to an increase in germ cell apoptosis at various stages of development , which ultimately results in vesiculation of the spermatogenic tubule . Targeting Rnf126 results in different types of germ cells reduction , infertility , and microtubule-associated motor activity failure ( MMAF ) , characterized by spermatozoa with truncated , twisted , and malformed flagella . Detailed ultrastructural studies reveal the extent of flagellar damage in the absence of Rnf126 , highlighting its critical role in maintaining flagellar stability . An important finding is the interaction between RNF126 and BAG6 , which regulates sperm synthesis and germ cell development . Clinically , reduced RNF126 levels in sperm from individuals with oligoasthenoteratospermia are significantly different from those in fertile individuals . Investigating Rnf126 function in spermatogenesis , together with empirical findings on MMAF presentation , may improve our understanding of the developmental processes involved in sperm flagellum formation and contribute to elucidating the causes of male infertility .
Labeling cellular biomolecules via copper-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition ( CuAAC ) offers rapid reaction kinetics and uses small azide and alkyne probes that minimally disturb molecular function , making it ideal for tracking biomolecules . However , applying CuAAC inside living cells has been hindered by the high copper levels required , which compromise cell health . To overcome this barrier , here , we develop inCu-click , an intracellular CuAAC approach that employs a DNA-conjugated ligand ( BTT-DNA ) to localize and concentrate copper ions at the reaction site . This design permits efficient click chemistry at low intracellular copper concentrations without added copper salts and supports template-driven proximity and liposomal delivery of the ligand into cells . Here we show that inCu-click enables robust fluorescent labeling of nascent phospholipids and proteins in live cells with negligible impact on viability , establishing a platform for real-time visualization of biomolecule dynamics in complex , live cell environments .
Navigating a dynamic world requires rapidly updating choices by integrating past experiences with new information . In hippocampus and prefrontal cortex , neural activity representing future goals is theorized to support navigational planning . However , it remains unknown how prospective goal representations incorporate new , pivotal information . Accordingly , we designed a navigation task that precisely introduces new information using virtual reality , and we recorded neural activity as male mice flexibly adapted their planned destinations . Here we show that new information triggered increased hippocampal prospective representations of both possible goals ; while in prefrontal cortex , new information caused prospective representations of choices to rapidly shift to the new choice . When mice did not adapt , prefrontal choice codes failed to switch . Prospective codes were dependent on the amount of behavioral adaptation needed ; the new goal arm was represented more strongly when animals needed to change their behavior more . Thus , we show how prospective codes update with new information to flexibly adapt ongoing navigational plans .
Specification of primordial germ cells ( PGCs ) establishes germline development during early embryogenesis , yet the underlying mechanisms in humans remain largely unknown . Here , we reveal the functional roles of germline-specific RNA-binding protein ( RBP ) DND1 in human PGC ( hPGC ) specification . We discovered that DND1 forms a complex with another RBP , NANOS3 , to restrict hPGC specification . Furthermore , by analyzing the mRNAs bound by DND1 and NANOS3 , we found that DND1 facilitates the binding of NANOS3 to hPGC-like cells-related mRNAs . We identified SOX4 mRNAs as the key downstream factor for the DND1 and NANOS3 complex . Mechanistically , DND1 and NANOS3 function in processing bodies ( P-bodies ) to repress the translation of SOX4 mRNAs , with NANOS3 mediating the interaction between DND1 and the translational repressor 4E-T . Altogether , these findings identify the RBP complex formed by DND1 and NANOS3 functioning as a " braking system " to restrict the entry of germ cell fate in humans .
Aqueous Zn ion batteries are advantageous in terms of safety and cost , while their sustainable applications are usually impeded by dendrite growth and interfacial side reactions . Here , we present the development of an electrochemically driven artificial solid-state electrolyte interphase , utilizing a metal surface coupling agent phosphate ester as a protective layer for Zn negative electrodes . Upon cycling , the protective layer in situ transforms into a hybrid phase enriched with well dispersed Zn ( PO ) nanocrystals . This transformation ensures a uniform Zn ( 2+ ) flux , effectively suppresses dendrite growth , and mitigates side reactions . In addition , such protective layer ensures Zn electrode stable plating/stripping performance for 1500 h at 10 mA cm ( -2 ) and 1 mAh cm ( -2 ) , while pouch cells coupled with NaVO . 5HO deliver ampere-hour level capacity . Beyond that , its robust adhesion and flexibility enable the Zn electrode to maintain good performance under a variety of harsh conditions . This approach provides valuable insights into the advancement of Zn metal batteries .
Exosomes , as cell-derived lipid nanoparticles , are promising drug carriers because they can traverse challenging physiological barriers such as the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) . However , a major obstacle in utilizing exosomes as drug carriers is loading large therapeutic molecules without compromising the structural integrity of embedded biomolecules . Here , we introduce a membrane fusion method utilizing fusogenic lipid nanoparticles , cubosomes , to load large molecules into exosomes in a non-destructive manner . When the drug-loaded cubosome and exosome solutions are simply mixed , membrane fusion is completed in just 10 min . Our method effectively loads doxorubicin and immunoglobulin G into exosomes . Moreover , even the most challenging molecule-mRNA-is loaded with nearly 100% efficiency , demonstrating the versatility of our approach . In terms of biological behavior , the resulting hybrid exosomes preserve the functional behavior of exosomes in BBB uptake and penetration . Surprisingly , controlling exosome-to-cubosome ratios allows precise control over BBB uptake and transport . Furthermore , these hybrid exosomes retain cell-specific delivery properties , preserving the targeted delivery functions dictated by their exosomal origin . This study demonstrates the feasibility of a mix-and-load method for rapid and efficient drug loading into exosomes , with significant potential for the treatment of neurological diseases .
Proteolysis-targeting chimeras ( PROTACs ) present a potentially effective strategy against various diseases via selective proteolysis . How to increase the efficacy of PROTACs remains challenging . Here , we explore the necessity of the linker , which has been deemed as an integral part of heterobifunctional PROTACs . Adopting single amino acid-based degradation signals , we find that the linker is not a required feature of the PROTACs . Notably , the linker-free PROTAC , Pro-BA , exhibits superior efficacy over its linker-bearing counterparts in degrading EML4-ALK and inhibiting lung cancer cell growth , as Pro-BA induces a stronger interaction between the target and the E3 ubiquitin ligase . Pro-BA is a water-soluble , orally administered degrader that significantly inhibits the tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model . The broad applicability of this linker-free PROTAC strategy is further validated through the development of BCR-ABL degrader . Our study introduces a design paradigm for PROTACs , potentially facilitating the advancement of more efficient therapeutic degraders .
The corneal epithelium serves as the front barrier against environmental stimuli and pathogens on the ocular surface . A comprehensive protein profile of the corneal epithelium would be crucial for understanding the molecular mechanisms that are related to corneal disease . This work demonstrated a library-free data-independent acquisition ( DIA ) approach across different mass spectrometers and proteomic software to build a comprehensive proteomic dataset for human corneal epithelial cells ( HCECs ) . With the combinational use of different data-independent acquisition technologies of multiple mass spectrometers , including Sciex ZenoTOF 7600 ( DIA-SWATH ) , Bruker TimsTOF Pro2 ( DIA-PASEF ) , and ThermoFisher Orbitrap Fusion Lumos ( DIA-HRMS1 ) , protein identification and quantification were performed with superior sensitivity and resolution . By using a library-free DIA approach , this study constructed a more diverse and unbiased proteomic profile of human corneal epithelial cells ( HCECs ) , comprising 11 , 954 protein groups ( 1% FDR ) . This represents the largest corneal proteome reported to date . All raw proteomic data were deposited to ProteomeXchange Consortium via Proteomics Identifications database ( PRIDE ) with the dataset identifier accession number PXD Our findings hold the potential to enhance future understanding of corneal pathologies and transformative therapeutics .
Oxalis articulata is a widely distributed perennial herb known for its adaptability to diverse environmental conditions . Here , we report the first haplotype-resolved , chromosome-scale genome assembly for O . articulata ( Oxalidaceae ) , generated through PacBio HiFi long reads and Hi-C technology . The resulting assembly comprises two haplotypes with sizes of 04 Mb ( contig N50 = 13 Mb ) and 70 Mb ( contig N50 = 46 Mb ) , respectively . We predicted 36 , 063 protein-coding genes ( 33% functionally annotated ) and 38 , 292 protein-coding genes ( 80% functionally annotated ) in the two haplotypes , respectively . This high-quality genome assembly lays a solid groundwork for future initiatives in ecological and biochemical research for O . articulata .
Despite the wide array of oxygen evolution reaction active materials revealed thus far , challenges persist in translating their half-cell scale activities into scalable devices with long-term durability . Here , we present a dynamic polarization control for the continuous electrochemical activation of readily available Ni electrode anodes to achieve sustainable and scalable water electrolysis . Periodic application of a reductive potential between high current density cycles ( 5 or 1 A cm ( -2 ) ) is found to promote and maintain the oxygen evolution activity of Ni electrodes via the incorporation of Fe ( 3+ ) from KOH electrolytes . This transient polarization strategy successfully extends to an anion exchange membrane water electrolysis system , where a cell voltage of approximately 8 V is maintained for over 1000 h under 1 A cm ( -2 ) . The scalability is further verified by the 25 cm 3-cell stack system , which lasts for 300 h with negligible voltage loss . Ultimately , this work highlights the power of the dynamic polarization strategy to regulate the dynamic nature of the oxygen evolution interface for sustainable and scalable water electrolysis .
In vivo gene therapy to the liver using lentiviral vectors ( LV ) may represent a one-and-done therapeutic approach for monogenic diseases . Increasing LV gene therapy potency is crucial for reducing the effective doses , thus alleviating dose-dependent toxicities and facilitating manufacturing . LV-mediated liver transduction may be enhanced by positively selecting LV-transduced hepatocytes after treatment ( a posteriori ) or by augmenting the initial fraction of LV-targeted hepatocytes ( a priori ) . We show here that the a posteriori enhancement increased transgene output without expansion of hepatocytes bearing LV genomic integrations near cancer genes , in mouse models of hemophilia , an inherited coagulation disorder . Furthermore , we enhanced hepatocyte transduction a priori in mice by transiently inhibiting antiviral pathways and/or through a fasting regimen . The most promising transduction-enhancer combination synergized with phagocytosis-shielded LV , resulting in a remarkable 40-fold increase in transgene output . Overall , our work highlights the potential of minimally invasive , cost-effective treatments capable of improving the potency of in vivo LV gene therapy to hepatocytes , in order to expand its applicability and ease clinical translation .
Apicomplexan parasites are single-celled obligate intracellular eukaryotic organisms that cause significant animal and human disease and pose a substantial health and socioeconomic burden worldwide . Eimeria acervulina is one such parasite of chickens , representative of several Eimeria species causing coccidiosis disease . A complete assembly of the E . acervulina genome may help identify markers of drug-resistance and design recombinant vaccines . We sequenced E . acervulina APU1 strain using Oxford Nanopore Sequencing and Illumina technology in combination with a Hi-C ( Omni-C ) proximity linkage library and achieved a chromosomal scale assembly using the MaSuRCA assembler . The final assembly was 52 Mb . with 15 chromosomes and 99% BUSCO completeness . A total of 7 , 621 genes were predicted using a pipeline of BRAKER3 , GeneMark-ETP and AUGUSTUS , of which 4 , 647 ( 97% ) have a predicted Pfam function and 1 , 962 ( 74% ) have Gene Ontology ( GO ) terms matching molecular , biological , and functional classes . Stage-specific transcriptome analysis revealed 9 , 761 transcripts . This genome assembly and transcriptome analysis provides the foundation for identifying biologically important candidates for anticoccidial drug and vaccine development .
Neutrophils , the most abundant white blood cells in human circulation , play a crucial role in innate immunity . One of their key defense mechanisms is the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps ( NETs ) , web-like structures composed of chromatin and antimicrobial proteins that help capture and neutralize pathogens . While previous studies have identified a limited set of NET-associated proteins , the comprehensive proteomic landscape of NETs induced by different stimuli remains largely unexplored . In this study , we used data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry to analyze the proteomic composition of NETs induced by five distinct stimuli : beta-glucan , lipopolysaccharide , polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid sodium , resiquimod , and severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome bunyavirus . Across all conditions , we identified 5 , 868 NET-associated proteins , revealing significant stimulus-dependent differences in protein composition . Notably , differentially expressed proteins were detected in each condition , highlighting unique proteomic signatures that may reflect distinct immune responses . This dataset offers key insights into the proteomic diversity of NETs and their role in immune regulation , providing a foundation for future research on NET-mediated immunity in infectious and inflammatory diseases .
The spindle assembly checkpoint ( SAC ) ensures mitotic exit occurs only after sister chromatid biorientation , but how this coordination is mechanistically achieved remains unclear . Kinetochores , the megadalton complexes linking chromosomes to spindle microtubules , contribute to SAC signaling . However , whether they act solely as docking platforms or actively promote the co-orientation of SAC catalysts such as MAD1 : MAD2 and BUB1 : BUB3 remains unresolved . Here , we reconstitute kinetochores and SAC signaling in vitro to address this question . We engineer recombinant kinetochore particles that recruit core SAC components and trigger checkpoint signaling upon Rapamycin induction , and test their function using a panel of targeted mutants . At approximately physiological concentrations of SAC proteins , kinetochores are essential for efficient mitotic checkpoint complex ( MCC ) assembly , the key effector of SAC signaling . Our results suggest that kinetochores serve not only as structural hubs but also as catalytic platforms that concentrate and spatially organize SAC components to accelerate MCC formation and ensure timely checkpoint activation .
Malaria parasite undergoes interesting developmental transition in human and mosquito host . While it divides asynchronously in the erythrocytes , it switches to sexual forms , which is critical for disease transmission . We report a novel signalling pathway involving Protein Phosphatase PfPPM2 , which regulates asexual division of Plasmodium falciparum as well as its conversion to sexual forms . PfPPM2 may regulate the phosphorylation of key proteins involved in chromatin remodelling and protein translation . One of the key PfPPM2-targets was Heterochromatin Protein 1 ( HP1 ) , a regulator of heritable gene silencing which contributes to both mitotic proliferation as well as sexual commitment of the parasite . PfPPM2 promotes sexual conversion by regulating the interaction between HP1 , H3K9me3 and chromatin and it achieves this by dephosphorylating S33 of HP PfPPM2 also regulates protein synthesis in the parasite by repressing the phosphorylation of initiation factor eIF2alpha , which is likely to contribute to parasite division and possibly sexual differentiation .
Plant pathogens significantly threaten food security and agricultural sustainability , with climate change expected to exacerbate outbreaks . Despite these growing threats , current agrochemical delivery remains untargeted and inefficient . In this study , we develop surface ligand-engineered nanoparticles for targeted delivery to stomata ( SENDS ) , a nanocarrier system designed to target stomatal guard cells , which serve as key pathogen entry points into the plant apoplast . Our approach employs rational ligand engineering of porous nanoparticles , optimizing ligand orientation for efficient stomata targeting across different plant species . Foliar application of SENDS encapsulating an antimicrobial plant alkaloid reduces colonization of Xanthomonas campestris , a major crop pathogen , by 20-fold compared to untargeted nanocarriers . Quantitative assessment of stomatal aperture movement and photosynthetic performance confirms that SENDS enhance plant defense against invading pathogens without disrupting natural stomatal function . This nanobiotechnology approach provides a targeted strategy to improve plant disease resistance , offering new insights into nanocarrier design for more resilient and sustainable agriculture .
How homeodomain proteins gain sufficient DNA binding specificity to regulate diverse processes is a long-standing question . Here , we determine how the ALX4 Paired-like protein achieves DNA binding specificity for a TAAT-NNN-ATTA dimer site . We first show that ALX4 binds this motif independently of its co-factor , TWIST1 , in cranial neural crest cells . Structural analysis identifies seven ALX4 residues that participate in dimer binding , many of which are conserved across the Paired-like family , but not other homeodomain proteins . Unexpectedly , the two ALX4 proteins within the dimer use distinct residues to form asymmetric protein-protein and protein-DNA interactions and mediate cooperativity . Moreover , we find that ALX4 cooperativity is required for transcriptional activation and that ALX4 disease variants cause distinct molecular defects that include loss of cooperativity . These findings provide insights into how Paired-like factors gain DNA specificity and show how disease variants can be stratified based on their molecular defects .
Despite the STING-type-I interferon pathway playing a key role in effective anti-tumor immunity , the therapeutic benefit of direct STING agonists appears limited . In this study , we use several artificial intelligence techniques and patient-based multi-omics data to show that Ectonucleotide Pyrophosphatase/Phosphodiesterase 1 ( ENPP1 ) , which hydrolyzes STING-activating cyclic GMP-AMP ( cGAMP ) , is a safer and more effective STING-modulating target than direct STING agonism in multiple solid tumors . We then leverage our generative chemistry artificial intelligence-based drug design platform to facilitate the design of ISM5939 , an orally bioavailable ENPP1-selective inhibitor capable of stabilizing extracellular cGAMP and activating bystander antigen-presenting cells without inducing either toxic inflammatory cytokine release or tumor-infiltrating T-cell death . In murine syngeneic models across cancer types , ISM5939 synergizes with targeting the PD-1/PD-L1 axis and chemotherapy in suppressing tumor growth with good tolerance . Our findings provide evidence supporting ENPP1 as an innate immune checkpoint across solid tumors and reports an AI design-aided ENPP1 inhibitor , ISM5939 , as a cutting-edge STING modulator for cancer therapy , paving a path for immunotherapy advancements .
Age-related osteoporosis poses a significant challenge in musculoskeletal health ; a condition characterized by reduced bone density and increased fracture susceptibility in older individuals necessitates a better understanding of underlying molecular and cellular mechanisms . Emerging evidence suggests that osteocytes are the pivotal orchestrators of bone remodeling and represent novel therapeutic targets for age-related bone loss . Our study uses the prematurely aged Polg ( D257A/D257A ) ( PolgA ) mouse model to scrutinize age- and sex-related alterations in musculoskeletal health parameters ( frailty , grip strength , gait data ) , bone and particularly the osteocyte lacuno-canalicular network ( LCN ) . Moreover , a new quantitative in silico image analysis pipeline is used to evaluate the alterations in the osteocyte network with aging . Our findings underscore the pronounced degenerative changes in the musculoskeletal health parameters , bone , and osteocyte LCN in PolgA mice as early as 40 weeks , with more prominent alterations evident in aged males . Our findings suggest that the PolgA mouse model serves as a valuable model for studying the cellular mechanisms underlying age-related bone loss , given the comparable aging signs and age-related degeneration of the bone and the osteocyte network observed in naturally aging mice and elderly humans .
Methamphetamine ( METH ) is a highly addictive psychostimulant , yet its addiction mechanisms remain unclear . Oxytocin ( OXT ) , a neuropeptide , shows promise in reducing METH addiction , but how OXT exerts its effects is poorly understood . Using conditioned place preference ( CPP ) , we first found that intranasal OXT other than Arginine Vasopressin ( AVP ) administration suppressed METH-CPP in mice , which could be reversed by OXT receptors ( OXTRs ) blockade in the nucleus accumbens ( NAc ) core . Activating OXTRs in the NAc core similarly reduced METH-CPP . Then , we found repeated METH exposure inhibited oxytocinergic neurons within the paraventricular nucleus ( PVN ) and lowered PVN OXT protein level . Chemogenetic activation of PVN oxytocinergic neurons ( PVN ( OXT ) ) blocked METH-CPP . Furthermore , METH inhibited PVN ( OXT ) -NAc core circuit other than PVN ( OXT ) -NAc shell circuit . Activation of PVN ( OXT ) -NAc core circuit significantly inhibited METH-CPP . This study reveals METH may impair the endogenous OXT system , especially the PVN ( OXT ) -NAc core circuit , highlighting OXT ' s therapeutic potential for METH use disorder ( MUD ) .
Oncological microwave hyperthermia is a clinically proven sensitizer of radio- and chemo-therapies ; it acts by selectively increasing the temperature of tumor cells by means of antenna applicators . Its current limitations mostly come from the inability to reliably predict , and hence control , temperature inside the patient during treatment , especially for deep-seated tumors . Simulations are employed in treatment planning , but due to related uncertainties invasive thermometry is necessary , usually via catheters . Being invasive , their use must be minimized and provides very limited spatial information . Here , we demonstrate an approach to obtain 3D temperature information in real time from few measurement points via massive use of high-performance simulations carried out prior to treatment . The proposed technique is tested both in a fully anthropomorphic in-silico scenario , and in an experimental controlled setting . The obtained results demonstrate the potential of the proposed method as a low-cost real-time temperature monitoring technique in cancer hyperthermia . Use with intra-luminal , minimally-invasive catheters is supported by the positive outcome experimentally obtained using data points directly acquired in the trachea-mimicking phantom structure .
While Chimeric Antigen Receptor ( CAR ) T cell therapy may result in durable remissions in recurrent large B cell lymphoma , persistence is limited and the mechanisms underlying long-term response are not fully elucidated . Using longitudinal single-cell immunoprofiling , here we compare the immune landscape in durable remission versus early relapse patients following CD19 CAR T cell infusion in the NCT02348216 ( ZUMA-1 ) trial . Four weeks post-infusion , both cohorts demonstrate low circulating CAR T cells . We observe that long-term remission is associated with elevated native cytotoxic and proinflammatory effector cells , and post-infusion clonotypic expansion of effector memory T cells . Conversely , early relapse is associated with impaired NK cell cytotoxicity and elevated immunoregulatory cells , potentially dampening native T cell activation . Thus , we suggest that durable remission to CAR T is associated with a distinct T cell signature and pattern of clonotypic expansion within the native T cell compartment post-therapy , consistent with their contribution to the maintenance of response .
The tumor environment of prostate cancer ( PCa ) tissues of high Gleason score has been proved to be more immune suppressive and has higher extracellular matrix ( ECM ) stiffness , but whether ECM mechanical stiffness is the cause of higher ability of invasiveness and immune escape of PCa with high Gleason score remains uncertain . In this study , we showed that higher polyacrylamide hydrogels ( PAAG ) stiffness resulted in the progression and immune escape of PCa via integrin beta1/FAK/YAP axis . The translocation of YAP into cell nucleus to bind to TEAD2 promoted the transcriptional activation of USP NBR1 could be ubiquitinated , and then degraded , via interacting with P62/SQSTM1 and through autophagy-lysosome pathway . Increased expression of USP8 promoted the abundance of NBR1 via K63-linked de-ubiquitination and PD-L1 via K48-linked de-ubiquitination in response to high PAAG stiffness . NBR1-mediated selective autophagy accelerated the degradation of MHC-1 of PCa . The USP8 inhibitor presented a potential application value in sensitizing immunotherapy of PCa . Taken together , we identified a USP8-mediated de-ubiquitination mechanism that involves in the process of high PAAG stiffness-mediated high expression of PD-L1 and low expression of MHC-1 of PCa cells , which provided a rationale of immunotherapy sensitization of PCa via USP8 inhibition .
Genotoxic stress-induced stem cell maldifferentiation ( GSMD ) integrates DNA damage responses with loss of stemness and lineage-specific differentiation to prevent damaged stem cell propagation . However , molecular mechanisms governing GSMD remain unclear . Here , we identify the p53-induced long non-coding RNA LOC644656 as a key regulator of GSMD in human embryonic stem cells . LOC644656 accumulates in the nucleus upon DNA damage , disrupting pluripotency by interacting directly with POU5F1 and KDM1A/LSD1-NuRD complexes , repressing stemness genes , and activating TGF-beta signaling . Additionally , LOC644656 mitigates DNA damage by binding DNA-PKcs and modulating the DNA damage response . In cancer , elevated LOC644656 correlates with poor patient survival and enhanced chemoresistance . Our findings demonstrate that LOC644656 mediates stemness suppression and resistance to genotoxic stress by coordinating DNA damage signaling and differentiation pathways . Thus , LOC644656 represents a potential therapeutic target for overcoming chemoresistance and advancing stem cell biology .
Tin perovskite solar cells ( TPSCs ) are considered as a sustainable alternative to their lead-containing counterparts , offering an ideal bandgap , a more stable crystal structure , and better semiconducting properties . However , the fabrication of efficient and able TPSCs has been a challenging task . Among the main components of TPSCs , herein , we investigated the transport layers and their interface with the perovskite layer . Several microscopy techniques revealed inhomogeneity in the common hole transport layer , poly ( 3 , 4-ethylenedioxythiophene ) : poly ( styrenesulfonate ) ( PEDOT : PSS ) , and the electron transport layer ( ETL ) , indene-C bisadduct ( ICBA ) . A hydrogen-bond donor molecule d-sorbitol modified the microstructure of PEDOT : PSS , increasing its conductivity and the crystallization density of the overlying perovskite layer . Blending 1% poly ( methyl methacrylate ) into ICBA rendered a uniform ETL , which facilitated electron transport across its interface with tin perovskite . The photocurrent density , open-circuit voltage , and fill factor of the TPSCs were all enhanced to achieve a power conversion efficiency of 8% and excellent short-term stability . Our findings address an often-neglected aspect of device fabrication and provide a new approach to boosting the performance and reproducibility of TPSCs . FAU - Ning , Qinyu
Epilepsy is a common and severe neurological manifestation of primary mitochondrial disease , affecting approximately 60 % of paediatric patients and 20 % of adult patients . Many of the mitochondrial epilepsies , particularly those presenting in childhood , are refractory to anti-epileptic treatment . Moreover , these conditions are typically characterised by severe neurodegeneration and closely associated with neurological decline and premature death . Indeed , there persists an urgent need to delineate the mechanisms underpinning mitochondrial epilepsy in order to develop effective treatments . In this review , we provide an overview of currently available in vitro models of the mitochondrial epilepsies . Such models offer opportunities to characterise early disease pathophysiology and interrogate novel mitochondrial-targeting and anti-epileptic treatments , with an overall aim to modulate seizure associated pathology and activity for the mitochondrial epilepsies . We discuss the use of acute cortical and subcortical brain slice preparations , obtained from both neurosurgical patients and rodents , for modelling the common neuropathophysiological features of mitochondrial epilepsy . We also review the use of induced pluripotent stem cell derived neural and glial culture models , and the development of three-dimensional cerebral organoids , generated from fibroblasts obtained from patients with primary mitochondrial disease . Human-derived , disease-relevant in vitro model systems which recapitulate the complexity and pathological features observed in patient brain tissues are crucial to help bridge the gap between animal models and patients living with mitochondrial epilepsy .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Arterial calcification is a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality . The calcification process is driven by the osteogenic transition of vascular smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) , which release extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) that act as mineralization nucleation sites . While mitochondrial dysfunction and endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress have been implicated in arterial calcification , the role of their contact sites remains unknown . Mitochondria-associated membranes ( MAMs ) are inter-organelle contacts connecting the outer mitochondrial membrane to the ER membrane through protein-protein interactions . This study investigated the role of Glucose-regulated protein 75 ( GRP75 ) , a MAM linker protein , in SMC calcification and EV cargo . METHODS : Human coronary artery SMCs were cultured in osteogenic medium to induce calcification . MAMs were isolated from SMCs and human carotid artery by subcellular fractionation and visualized using transmission electron microscopy . SMC-derived EVs were isolated from the conditioned culture medium by ultracentrifugation . GRP75 inhibition was achieved using silencing RNA or the inhibitor MKT- Mitochondrial respiration and ER stress were analyzed using Seahorse analysis and Western blotting . RESULTS : Calcifying SMCs expressed higher GRP75 mRNA ( 2-fold +/- 7 , p = 043 ) and protein ( 3-fold +/- 2 , p = 008 ) levels compared to control SMCs . GRP75 was enriched at MAMs , and electron microscopy imaging demonstrated closer mitochondria-ER contacts in both calcifying SMCs in vitro and human calcified carotid artery specimens . GRP75 inhibition by silencing RNA ( -35 % +/- 13 % , p < 001 ) or MKT-077 ( -57 % +/- 3 % , p < 001 ) attenuated matrix mineralization and reduced close mitochondria-ER contacts along with attenuating mitochondrial respiration capacity . Additionally , GRP75 was enriched in EVs released by calcifying SMCs ( 3-fold +/- 1 , p = 040 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings demonstrate that MAMs are altered in calcifying SMCs . GRP75 inhibition disrupted close mitochondria-ER contact formation , decreased mitochondrial respiration , modulated the osteogenic transition of SMCs , and reduced vascular calcification . Therefore , GRP75 could serve as a potential target for preventing arterial calcification .
OBJECTIVES : Stromal-immune crosstalk shapes the pathogenic microenvironment of systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) , but the spatial regulatory networks underlying fibrogenesis remain poorly defined . We aimed to explore tissue organisation and cell coordination in SSc skin , providing spatiotemporal insights into disease mechanisms and bridging the gap between omics discovery and precision medicine . METHODS : We performed spatial transcriptomics on skin biopsies from 10 patients with diffuse cutaneous SSc and 4 healthy controls using the 10x Visium platform . These findings were confirmed using higher-resolution Stereo-seq transcriptomics , spatial proteomics , and single-cell RNA sequencing data from patients with SSc , SSc mouse models , and wound-healing reindeer models . In vivo and in vitro studies were conducted to validate the key regulatory pathways . RESULTS : Fourteen skin biopsies were analysed , revealing significant expansion of fibrotic niches enriched with fibroblasts and macrophages in SSc , correlating with clinical severity . We revealed disease-specific cell states of fibroblasts and macrophages and evaluated their spatial dependency and cell-cell communication . Stratification based on signature genes enabled the identification of patients with SSc with progressive disease and treatment-nonresponsive phenotype . ACKR3 ( a CXCL12 decoy receptor ) was selectively expressed in myofibroblast progenitors , which diminished during differentiation towards mature myofibroblast , potentially serving to regulate CXCL12/CXCR4-mediated proinflammatory macrophage recruitment . Inhibition of CXCR4 attenuated skin and lung fibrosis in experimental fibrosis mouse models . CONCLUSIONS : Our spatially resolved atlas uncovered dynamic fibroblast-macrophage interplay as a hallmark of fibrotic niche expansion . These findings offer spatiotemporal insights into disease mechanisms and pave the way for advanced mechanistic and therapeutic studies , bridging the gap between omics discovery and precision medicine .
OBJECTIVES : Despite the recent prognostic improvement , a sizeable proportion of patients with juvenile dermatomyositis ( JDM ) respond suboptimally to contemporary therapies . This study aimed to develop recommendations for treating JDM to target . METHODS : A Steering Committee formulated a set of provisional recommendations based on evidence derived from a systematic literature review and a retrospective chart review of patients . These were discussed , amended , and voted on by an international Task Force , including 28 paediatric rheumatologists , 2 specialists in neuromuscular diseases , 1 dermatologist , 1 physical therapist , 1 research nurse , 2 patients with JDM , and 1 parent of a patient with JDM . Items that achieved at least an 80% majority vote were accepted as final recommendations . RESULTS : Although the literature review did not reveal trials that compared a treat-to-target strategy with a nonsteered approach , it provided indirect evidence about specific end points that could serve as targets that facilitated development of recommendations . The group reached consensus on 7 overarching principles and 12 recommendations . It was agreed that both patients/parents and treaters should share decisions in setting treatment targets and therapeutic strategies , with inactive disease as the preferred target and minimal disease activity an alternative one . Inactive disease is targeted to be achieved within 12 months after treatment start . Interim targets include minimal and moderate clinical improvement within 6 weeks and 3 months , respectively , and normalisation of muscle strength within 6 months . High-dose glucocorticoids remain fundamental in the initial management , but progressive tapering and discontinuation within 12 months through optimisation of concomitant immunomodulatory therapy was advised . A research agenda was formulated . CONCLUSIONS : The Task Force developed recommendations for treating JDM to target , being aware that the evidence is not strong and needs to be expanded by future research . Implementation of the recommendations in clinical practice will help to reach optimal outcomes for JDM .
The biofilm mode of growth and drug efflux are both important factors that impede the treatment of bacterial infections with antimicrobials . Decades of work have uncovered the mechanisms involved in both efflux and biofilm-mediated antimicrobial tolerance , but links between these phenomena have only recently been discovered . Novel findings show how efflux impacts global cellular physiology and antibiotic tolerance , underpinned by phenotypic heterogeneity . In addition efflux can mediate cell-to-cell interactions , relevant in biofilms , via mechanisms including efflux of signaling molecules and metabolites , signaling using pump components and the establishment of local antibiotic gradients via pumping . These recent findings suggest that biofilm antibiotic tolerance and efflux are closely coupled , with synergistic effects leading to the evolution of antimicrobial resistance in the biofilm environment .
BACKGROUND : Most patients with lower-risk myelodysplastic syndromes ( LR-MDS ) develop red blood cell transfusion dependence ( RBC-TD ) . RBC-TD has been associated with decreased quality of life and overall survival ( OS ) . METHODS : This study assessed association between RBC-TD and survival using International Classification of Diseases , Tenth Revision ( ICD . 10 ) , codes and patterns of MDS medication from a large US health insurance claims database ( October 2015-March 2023 ) in 6531 patients who received >/=1 line of treatment . RESULTS : Erythropoiesis-stimulating agent and hypomethylating agent monotherapy were treatments most commonly used in first-line ( 1L ) and second-line ( 2L ) settings . At baseline , 8% of patients had high transfusion burden ( >/=8 RBC U/8 weeks ) . In 1L and 2L , >/=16-week RBC transfusion independence ( TI ) was achieved by 41% ( n = 935/2301 ) and 32% ( n = 239/745 ) of patients , respectively . Median real-world progression-free survival ( rwPFS ; time from start of treatment to next treatment or progression/death , whichever occurred first ) and median OS ( mOS ) were significantly longer in >/=16-week RBC-TI responders than nonresponders . Median ( 95% confidence interval [CI] ) rwPFS in 1L responders versus nonresponders was 0 months ( 0-3 ) versus 3 months ( 0-5 ; P < . 0001 ) , respectively , and was 5 months ( 6-7 ) versus 1 months ( 7-6 ; P < . 0001 ) , respectively , in 2L . mOS ( 95% CI ) in 1L responders versus nonresponders was 7 months ( 1-6 ) versus 0 months ( 0-1 ; P < . 0001 ) , respectively , and 2 months ( 9-8 ) versus 0 months ( 6-6 ; P < . 0001 ) , respectively , in 2L . RBC-TI achievement was associated with improved survival . CONCLUSIONS : Results suggest RBC-TD may be a modifiable factor corresponding to clinical outcomes in LR-MDS , further supporting RBC-TI as a primary endpoint in clinical studies .
BACKGROUND : Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) is the leading cause of cancer-related death globally , with stage IA NSCLC presenting a unique opportunity for curative interventions . The efficacy of minimally invasive surgery ( MIS ) vs . stereotactic ablative radiotherapy ( SABR ) remains debated due to limited direct comparative data . METHODS : This multicenter observational study analyzed data from 1014 patients diagnosed with clinical stage IA NSCLC ( 2015-2021 ) and treated with MIS ( including VATS and RATS ) or SABR . After propensity score matching , 234 patients ( 117 per group ) were included . Matching balanced age , ECOG performance status , Charlson Comorbidity Index , lung function , and histological subtype to compare overall survival ( OS ) , freedom from recurrence ( FFR ) , and recurrence rates . RESULTS : The mean follow-up was 35 months for MIS and 33 months for SABR . The matched cohort ( n = 234 ) showed superior 5-year locoregional control ( LRC ) rates for MIS ( 93% ) vs . SABR ( 88% ) . FFS at 2 and 5 years was higher for MIS ( 5% and 3% ) than SABR ( 1% and 9% ; P = . 010 ) . OS was significantly higher in MIS , with a hazard ratio of 60 ( 95% CI : 11-31 ) . Early mortality rates were 6% for MIS at 30 and 90 days . SABR exhibited no 30-day mortality and a 90-day rate of 7% . CONCLUSION : MIS is associated with higher OS , LRC and FFR , but higher treatment-related mortality compared to SABR for stage IA NSCLC . This study supports the preference for surgical interventions where feasible . While future randomized controlled trials may provide more insights , this observational study contributes valuable evidence to guide clinical decision-making .
OBJECTIVES : TP53 is the most frequently mutated gene in non-small-cell lung cancer . Although TP53 co-mutation is associated with poor responses to EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( EGFR-TKIs ) in advanced EGFR-mutated adenocarcinoma , its impact in resected early-stage lung adenocarcinoma remains unclear . In this study , we evaluated the effect of TP53 co-mutation on clinicopathological features , prognosis , and recurrence patterns in resected early-stage EGFR-mutated lung adenocarcinoma . METHODS : We analyzed 400 patients with completely resected lung adenocarcinoma across pathological stages I-III , screening for EGFR and TP53 mutations using whole-exome sequencing . Among 121 patients positive for EGFR mutations , we categorized those with TP53 co-mutations and those with wild-type TP We then compared clinicopathological features , prognostic outcomes , recurrence patterns , and the efficacy of EGFR-TKI treatment postrecurrence between these groups . RESULTS : TP53 co-mutations were identified in 22 cases ( 2% ) . The TP53 co-mutation group had significantly more lymphovascular invasion ( P = . 037 ) and a higher tumor mutation burden ( P = . 007 ) compared with the TP53 wild-type group . Moreover , the co-mutation group exhibited markedly poorer recurrence-free and overall survival rates [hazard ratio ( HR ) 32 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) 12-85 , P = . 025 ; HR 54 , 95% CI 01-36 , P = . 047 , respectively] . However , progression-free survival in patients treated with EGFR-TKIs postrelapse did not differ significantly between the groups . CONCLUSIONS : TP53 co-mutations may negatively affect the prognosis of patients with resected early-stage EGFR-mutated lung adenocarcinoma . Larger studies are needed to confirm these findings .
Advances in understanding genomic drivers of human malignancies have evolved from morphologic evaluations to in-depth DNA and RNA analyses and gene expression profiling . In urologic malignancies , these molecular diagnostics are integral to patient management , aiding pathological diagnosis , providing prognostic and predictive relevance , and identifying therapeutic options for advanced diseases . For instance , renal cell carcinoma frequently harbors alterations in VHL , PBRM1 , and BAP1 , influencing therapeutic responses , while urothelial carcinoma is characterized by FGFR3 mutations and TERT promoter alterations , which have implications for targeted therapy . Prostate cancer commonly involves TMPRSS2-ERG fusions and BRCA2 mutations , affecting treatment strategies , and penile squamous cell carcinoma follows distinct HPV-dependent and HPV-independent pathways , with mutations in TP53 and CDKN2A genes . These advances in molecular pathology have deepened our understanding of these complex diseases and facilitated the introduction of novel targeted therapies . While these advances promise improved diagnosis , prognosis , and treatment options , many questions remain regarding the variable patient responses within the same histologic types . Addressing these will enable optimal management strategies and the development of personalized treatments targeting specific molecular alterations to improve patient outcomes .
Acute kidney injury ( AKI ) is a common clinical complication in malaria , with AKI reported across all species that cause severe disease , including Plasmodium falciparum , Plasmodium knowlesi , and Plasmodium vivax . AKI during malaria varies based on host and parasite factors , including the growth potential of the parasite within host red blood cells , the extent of red blood cell lysis , and the capacity of the parasite to sequester within the microvasculature . In this review , we focus primarily on P . falciparum pathogenesis and the role of intravascular hemolysis in AKI through the depletion of endogenous hemoglobin and heme scavengers , resulting in oxidative stress and tissue injury . We discuss the etiology of blackwater fever as a hemolytic complication in severe malaria that has been rising in incidence . All patients with severe malaria should have a high index of suspicion for AKI , particularly when hemolytic features are present . Finally , we review potential interventions to mitigate the impact of hemolysis on kidney injury in severe malaria . Given the high burden of malaria in Africa , the incidence of AKI in severe malaria , and the number of malaria episodes over a person ' s lifetime , the cumulative impact of malaria-associated AKI on chronic kidney disease needs to be considered . Semin Nephrol 36 : x-xx ( c ) 20XX Elsevier Inc . All rights reserved .
Pneumatization of the articular eminence ( PAE ) and pneumatization of the glenoid fossa ( PGF ) refer to the presence of air cells in the zygomatic process of the temporal bone , according to their location . These air cells are asymptomatic and do not necessitate treatment ; however , their identification is crucial in specific situations , particularly during temporomandibular joint ( TMJ ) surgery . The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic efficacy of panoramic radiography in detecting PAE compared to cone beam computed tomography ( CBCT ) . The study included 400 individuals who underwent panoramic and CBCT imaging in the same calendar year . The examination of PAE was first conducted using CBCT , and this was followed by a comparative analysis with panoramic imaging . The prevalence of PAE was determined to be 3% on CBCT and 8% on panoramic imaging . Compared to CBCT imaging , the specificity of panoramic images to identify cases without PAE was 5% for the right side and 98% for the left side ; sensitivity , on the other hand , was only 6% and 1% for the right and left sides , respectively . In comparison to CBCT imaging , panoramic imaging demonstrated a low sensitivity , despite its high specificity . Therefore , a three-dimensional examination is recommended prior to TMJ surgery .
Acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) is an aggressive hematological cancer with a 70% five-year mortality rate . Relapse occurs in approximately half of adults treated with intensive chemotherapy , while responses to targeted therapies are short-lasting . Frequent mutations in signaling pathways , such as FLT3 tyrosine kinase and RAS , lead to dysregulated mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 ( mTORC1 ) and mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) signaling , increased protein synthesis , enhanced mitochondrial fitness , and metabolic adaptations that drive leukemic cell proliferation and survival . Here , emerging evidence supporting the unique role of eukaryotic initiation factor 4F as a key driver of the expression of proteins regulating leukemic cell metabolism and survival and the potential therapeutic benefit of targeting this pathway pharmacologically in AML are discussed .
The dysregulation of the inflammatory microenvironment following tendon injury significantly hinders regeneration . In this study , we developed an all-silk-derived functional scaffold ( rKL@MPs-ASF ) by integrating silk fibroin ( SF ) microspheres ( MPs ) loaded with the anti-inflammatory protein recombinant alpha-Klotho ( rKL ) into a biomimetic aligned SF ( ASF ) scaffold . This scaffold is designed to regulate the inflammatory microenvironment and facilitate tendon regeneration . Proteomic analysis revealed that rKL preserves the tenogenic differentiation potential of tendon stem/progenitor cells ( TSPCs ) by mitigating the oxidative stress response in a tumor necrosis factor-alpha-induced inflammatory microenvironment in vitro . The rKL@MPs-ASF scaffold demonstrated good drug loading/release capabilities and biocompatibility in vitro . In a rat full-thickness Achilles tendon defect model , the rKL@MPs-ASF scaffold reduced inflammatory cells infiltration and promoted fibroblast infiltration compared to the PBS@MPs-ASF group at 4 weeks post-operation . At 8 weeks post-operation , rKL@MPs-ASF-treated tendons showed increased collagen fiber deposition and reduced heterogeneous ossification , facilitating tendon regeneration and functional recovery . In conclusion , this all-silk-derived functional system creates a conducive microenvironment for tendon regeneration . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : Regulation of the inflammatory microenvironment plays a crucial role in modulating the differentiation of TSPCs , thereby promoting tendon tissue regeneration . In this study , we demonstrate that rKL effectively preserves the tenogenic differentiation potential of TSPCs by mitigating oxidative stress within an inflammatory microenvironment . We developed an innovative , all-silk-based functional system ( rKL@MPs-ASF ) , which integrates rKL-loaded SF MPs into an aligned silk fibroin scaffold . This system enables the controlled release of rKL , thereby modulating inflammation , promoting collagen fiber deposition , inhibiting heterotopic ossification , and ultimately improving tendon regeneration and functional recovery . Our findings highlight the potential of the rKL@MPs-ASF system , which combines structural and biological properties with a versatile drug-delivery platform , as a promising strategy for enhancing tendon repair and regenerative outcomes .
CD73 , an emerging immune checkpoint , plays a pivotal role in the adenosine ( ADO ) metabolic pathway by catalyzing the conversion of AMP to ADO . This process has been shown to inhibit the functions of T cells and natural killer ( NK ) cells , thereby exacerbating the immunosuppressive effects within the tumor microenvironment . These findings underscore the critical role of CD73 in modulating immune cell function and represent a promising therapeutic target for cancer treatment . Herein , a series of novel CD73 inhibitors featuring a 1H , 3H-dihydro-2 , 4-pyrimidinone moiety was achieved . Notably , XC-12 exhibited potent in vitro anti-CD73 activity against both soluble and membrane-bound forms ( IC = 36 and 29 nM , respectively ) . Furthermore , XC-12 was orally bioavailable and significantly inhibited the tumor growth in the CT26 syngeneic mouse model ( TGI : 74% ) at a dose of 135 mg/kg . These results suggest that XC-12 may serve as a promising candidate for cancer immunotherapy . FAU - Cen , Lifang
Electrolytic hydrogen production using abundant water and renewable electricity is a key step toward achieving a carbon-neutral economy . Anion-exchange membrane water electrolyzers ( AEMWE ) present an opportunity to enhance sustainability and reduce the costs of green hydrogen technology . This study focuses on reducing electrical losses in the AEMWE by designing an improved anode catalyst layer . The approach involves modifying nickel foam by using a microporous nickel ink . This modification not only smooths the nickel foam to prevent membrane punctures during compression assembly but also enhances the utilization of the mesoporous NiO ( mesoNiO ) catalyst in the anode process , namely , the oxygen evolution reaction ( OER ) . The anode leverages a mechanism where both the mesoNiO catalyst and the nickel powder layer participate in the OER , hosting a NiOOH intermediate formed through surface oxidation . By optimization of the mass loading , the design achieves a balance between smooth membrane-electrode contact , reduced kinetic losses during the OER , and efficient ionic transport . As a result , the optimized AEMWE reaches a competitive current density of 6 A cm ( -2 ) at a cell voltage of 2 V , comparable to the performance of state-of-the-art proton-exchange membrane water electrolyzers . These findings highlight that fluorocarbon membrane-free , zero-gap water electrolyzers with platinum-free anodes can deliver significant advancements in green hydrogen technology . This promising performance encourages further research toward catalyst-free water electrolyzers as the next step in sustainable hydrogen production . FAU - Pushkareva , Irina V
This review article details the lymphatic drainage pathways for both thoracic and extrathoracic cancers within the chest . The major lymphatic pathways into and through the thorax are reviewed , along with their impact on the spread of cancers . Defects or damage to lymphatic channels and variant anatomy may alter how cancer cells spread through the lymphatic system . Monitoring specific lymph node stations can help in the early detection of lymph node metastases . When an abnormal lymph node is detected without a known primary malignancy , understanding lymphatic drainage pathways can help target the search for the most likely origin of the abnormality .
Individuals with visual impairments often experience poor sleep health , which may impact brain physiology and function , as evidenced by altered brain activity during sleep . The sleeping brain can be categorized into stages : three non-rapid eye movement ( NREM ) stages and one rapid eye movement ( REM ) stage , with each stage defined by its structure , that is , the duration and frequency of specific brain oscillations . Research investigating alterations in sleep structure among visually impaired individuals has yielded mixed results : some studies indicate reduced or absent deep sleep ( N3 ) , others report longer REM latency ( the time until the first REM epoch ) , while some suggest that circadian dysfunction may play a more significant role than visual impairment itself . Sleep is regulated by two processes : the homeostatic sleep drive , which accumulates during wakefulness and is relieved during sleep , and the circadian process , which describes the 24-hour sleep-wake cycle . The circadian process is particularly vulnerable to disruption by visual impairments , as damage to the retina can alter photic entrainment , the process by which light signals from the retina align the circadian sleep-wake cycle with the solar day . Visually impaired individuals often experience a drifting sleep-wake cycle that misaligns with the light-dark cycle , and during periods of misalignment , sleep quality may be particularly poor , especially REM sleep , which is largely under circadian control . Some causes of visual impairment , such as glaucoma , may be more susceptible to circadian dysfunction than others , as glaucoma affects cells in the retinal layer necessary for photic entrainment , which in turn may increase the risk of changes to sleep structure . Given that abnormal sleep structure is associated with long-term health consequences , including increased risks of depression , anxiety , and cognitive decline , it may contribute to the high prevalence of these issues found among the visually impaired population . Further research is needed to clarify the roles of the causes of visual impairments , circadian misalignment , and the impact on sleep structure . A better understanding of these relationships could help develop targeted interventions to improve sleep and enhance health outcomes for visually impaired individuals .
The daily rise and fall in ambient temperature caused by Earth ' s 24-hour rotation may help regulate circadian rhythms in visually impaired individuals . In all mammals , circadian rhythms , the daily cycles of physiology and behavior , are time controlled by the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) , the brain ' s central clock . The SCN typically synchronizes circadian rhythms with the light/dark cycle through photoentrainment , a process in which specialized retinal cells capture ambient light and transmit this information to the SCN , allowing it to set its phase . Without light input , the rodent SCN ' s light-driven circuits can become desynchronized , potentially allowing alternative entrainment signals , such as ambient temperature , to influence central timing . Here , we consider whether a similar mechanism could benefit visually impaired humans who , due to retinal damage , have reduced or absent photic input to the central clock . Visually impaired individuals often experience circadian misalignment , whereby internal rhythms drift out of synchrony with the light-dark cycle , and we suggest that temperature information may mitigate some of this drift . Temperature entrainment could operate through heat shock pathways from the skin , via thermoregulatory brain regions with reciprocal connections to the SCN , or by shifting core body temperature through warm or cold baths , which can alter the phase of clocks in peripheral organs and potentially feedback to adjust central time . Given that temperature is a weaker cue than light , it remains unknown if , and to what extent , it may significantly impact central timing . However , if effective , temperature entrainment in the visually impaired could potentially improve circadian disorders , poor sleep , and adverse health outcomes associated with circadian dysfunction including depression , cognitive decline , and metabolic disorders , which are more prevalent in this population . Research is needed to confirm the long-term effectiveness of temperature as an entrainment cue in the visually impaired population , which may have broader implications for circadian timekeeping in mammals and the role of temperature in the absence of light .
BACKGROUND : The senescence-associated secretory phenotype ( SASP ) is closely linked to aging by promoting inflammation and tissue degradation . Sensing SASP is crucial for early detection of and intervention in age-related diseases to enhance therapeutic outcomes . Herein , SASP-selective sensors ( transforming growth factor [TGF]-beta1 and interleukin [IL]-6 probes ) were designed by utilizing TGF-beta1/IL-6 aptamers-functionalized copper-immobilized polymer dots that promoted specific binding between TGF-beta1/IL-6 aptamers on the probe surface with aging factors ( TGF-beta1 and IL-6 ) . RESULTS : The selective binding was reflected by changes in the conductivity of the probes . The TGF-beta1 and IL-6 probes showed high sensitivity towards TGF-beta1 and IL-6 , with limits of detection of 09 pg/mL for the TGF-beta1 ( R = 9989 ) and 49 pg/mL ( R = 9998 ) for IL-6 probes . In vitro study using senescent cells confirmed that the probes could selectively detect TGF-beta1 and IL-6 , indicated by increased resistance with longer incubation times ( TGF-beta1 ( 72h ) = 775 MOmega , IL-6 ( 72h ) = 401 MOmega ) . Furthermore , the TGF-beta1 and IL-6 probes exhibited excellent detection performance in in vivo samples from aging mouse models when monitoring the levels of TGF-beta1 and IL-6 at different times after lenti soup injection and at different mouse ages ( 6-20 months ) . Additionally , the electrical signals generated during sensing can be displayed on a smartphone via a wireless sensing system . SIGNIFICANCE : TGF-beta1 and IL-6 probes provide a sensitive , specific and accessible diagnostic platform for senescence aging factors monitoring , which are expected to be an essential tool that transforms the analysis of aging and age-related diseases .
BACKGROUND : Multifunctional carbon dots ( CDs ) have gained prominence in biosensing , cell imaging , and nanomedicine due to their tunable fluorescence , excellent biocompatibility , and surface functionalizability . However , blue/green-emitting CDs suffer from limited tissue penetration and autofluorescence interference . Iron ions ( Fe ( 3+ ) ) and pyrophosphate ions ( PPi ) are crucial biomarkers in various biological processes , with deviations in their concentrations linked to various diseases including cancer . Therefore , the development of highly sensitive and selective sensors for Fe ( 3+ ) and PPi detection is vital . To address these challenges , we present red-emitting nickel-doped carbon dots ( Ni-CDs ) synthesized via a simple one-pot hydrothermal method , offering advantages for deep-tissue imaging and therapeutics . RESULTS : Herein , we report a one-pot hydrothermal synthesis of nickel-doped CDs ( Ni-CDs ) that exhibit both paramagnetic responsiveness and red fluorescence ( lambda ( ex ) /lambda ( em ) = 475 nm/630 nm ) . Using citric acid and p-phenylenediamine as raw materials , we successfully fabricated Ni-CDs with high fluorescence quantum yield of 24 % and uniform size distribution ( 13 +/- 04 nm ) . The Ni-CDs serve as an " on-off-on " fluorescent sensor for simultaneous detection of Fe ( 3+ ) and PPi with low detection limits of 051 muM and 31 muM , respectively . They demonstrate high sensitivity and selectivity in detecting Fe ( 3+ ) in real water samples and PPi in human urine and blood samples . Furthermore , Ni-CDs exhibit good biocompatibility and enable real-time visualization of intracellular Fe ( 3+ ) and PPi dynamics in cancer cells . Under 808 nm laser irradiation ( 5 W/cm ) , Ni-CDs achieve high photothermal conversion efficiency of 1 % and generate cytotoxic reactive oxygen species , leading to synergistic photothermal/photodynamic cancer cell apoptosis of 8 % . SIGNIFICANCE : This " two-in-one " theranostic platform based on Ni-CDs overcomes traditional limitations of conventional blue/green-emitting CDs , offering deep-tissue compatibility and minimized background interference , and multifunctional integration . Our methodology provides a generalized design strategy for wavelength-engineered CD hybrids , enabling innovative applications in point-of-care diagnostics and precision oncology . The multifunctional properties of Ni-CDs highlight their potential to revolutionize biomedical research and clinical practice .
LIMK1 is a promising therapeutic target for multiple pathologies . Its holistic study seems crucial , as none of its inhibitors has passed clinical trials . The need for new fluorescent probes for the study of enzyme/ligand interactions is always increasing with the development of new analytical tools . A method for the assessment of LIMK activity directly in cell lysate is needed to ensure that interaction studies can be performed close to native conditions and by using active enzymes . Here , we introduce a study of LIM Kinase activity and inhibition monitored directly in cell lysate by capillary electrophoresis ( CE ) . The miRFP670-LIMK1 was prepared because it is a fluorescent fusion protein emitting in the red spectrum and is thus suitable for microscale thermophoresis ( MST ) affinity assays . A PDADMAC-coated capillary was mandatory to avoid adsorption issues . The results directly confirm , for the first time , that miRFP670-LIMK1 is still active in the cell lysate even when the miRFP670 fluorescent tag is attached to its C-terminal . The inhibition of miRFP670-LIMK1 activity in the presence of TH-257 was also confirmed by CE . The dissociation constant , K ( d ) , of the interaction miRFP670-LIMK1/TH-257 was then evaluated by MST , again directly in the cell lysate without any purification step . Submicromolar cellular on-target activity was revealed ( K ( d ) = 9 nM ) , confirming that TH-257 is suitable as a chemical probe for LIMK This study presents an innovative application of CE as a direct approach to verify , in a straightforward and simple manner , without purification or radioactivity , if an enzymatic target maintains its functionality after labeling . This work also highlights the complementarity of CE and MST in advancing pharmaceutical development under conditions that closely mimic those in vivo .
BACKGROUND : Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent programmed cell death pathway driven by lipid peroxidation that involves various inflammation-related diseases and even cancer , which is often accompanied by the accumulation of mitochondrial ROS . HClO , as one of the vital ROS in organisms , is mainly derived from the mitochondria of cells . And abnormal levels of HClO can disrupt redox homeostasis in cells and lead to various diseases . Importantly , intracellular HClO levels are also associated with ferroptosis . Therefore , it is very important to study the fluctuation of intracellular HClO level during ferroptosis . RESULTS : Herein , a HClO fluorescent probe TPA-ClO was synthesized using triphenylamine fluorophore and benzothiadiazole structure . Notably , TPA-ClO exhibited the advantages of NIR fluorescence emission , good AIE properties and large Stokes shift , and which could selectively detect HClO with a detection limit of 0 nM . TPA-ClO could be well targeted in mitochondria and had been successfully applied to monitor exogenous and endogenous HClO in MCF7 cells . Moreover , the imaging experiment of TPA-ClO indicated that erastin- and RSL3-induced ferroptosis in MCF7 cells led to increased levels of mitochondrial HClO and that MCF7 cells showed high ferroptosis sensitivity to RSL SIGNIFICANCE : TPA-ClO exhibited high selectivity to HClO over other potential interfering substances , and could be employed to monitor HClO level fluctuations in MCF7 cells . More importantly , TPA-ClO could be an effective tool to monitor the fluctuations of HClO level in mitochondria during ferroptosis as well as for investigating various diseases associated with ferroptosis for future research .
This document aims to provide recommendations on the role of imaging in the diagnosis of squamous cell anal cancer , focusing on its use in locoregional and systemic assessment during initial staging , posttreatment evaluation , and surveillance . For initial locoregional staging , MRI of the pelvis and FDG-PET/CT are usually appropriate to complement clinical and digital rectal examinations , because they offer additional information regarding locoregional tumor invasion and nodal metastases . For metastatic disease assessment , which is rare in the initial presentation and commonly associated with recurrence-with lymph nodes , liver , and lungs being the most common sites of disease-CT and FDG-PET/CT are usually appropriate for detecting distant nodal metastases and other sites of metastatic disease . MRI of the abdomen may be appropriate as a problem-solving tool , particularly in assessing small or indeterminate liver lesions . For patients who have completed locoregional treatment , most typically achieve clinical complete response ; consequently , few require surgery unless there is persistent disease or recurrence . The role of posttreatment imaging assessment is still debatable ; however , in cases in which surgery is indicated , MRI and FDG-PET/CT are usually appropriate for assessing local tumor invasion and nodal metastases . The American College of Radiology Appropriateness Criteria are evidence-based guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are reviewed annually by a multidisciplinary expert panel . The guideline development and revision process support the systematic analysis of the medical literature from peer reviewed journals . Established methodology principles such as Grading of Recommendations Assessment , Development , and Evaluation or GRADE are adapted to evaluate the evidence . The RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method User Manual provides the methodology to determine the appropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures for specific clinical scenarios . In those instances in which peer reviewed literature is lacking or equivocal , experts may be the primary evidentiary source available to formulate a recommendation .
This document reviews the evidence supporting different imaging modalities and techniques used to evaluate patients with a history of lung cancer . It focuses on the imaging evaluation of patients treated for stage I-III non-small-cell lung cancer and small-cell lung cancer , whether using individual modalities or combinations . Guidelines for both routine surveillance of stage I-III lung cancer and for the evaluation of suspected recurrence or disease progression are provided . The American College of Radiology Appropriateness Criteria are evidence-based guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are reviewed annually by a multidisciplinary expert panel . The guideline development and revision process support the systematic analysis of the medical literature from peer reviewed journals . Established methodology principles such as Grading of Recommendations Assessment , Development , and Evaluation or GRADE are adapted to evaluate the evidence . The RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method User Manual provides the methodology to determine the appropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures for specific clinical scenarios . In those instances where peer reviewed literature is lacking or equivocal , experts may be the primary evidentiary source available to formulate a recommendation .
Pseudo-nitzschia multiseries is a diatom known for producing domoic acid ( DA ) , a neurotoxin that can cause Amnesic Shellfish Poisoning ( ASP ) , which poses risks to both marine life and human health . This study reports the first detailed investigation of P . multiseries in the Sea of Marmara , focusing on its morphology , phylogeny , and toxin production . Morphological analysis using light and electron microscopy confirmed key diagnostic features consistent with P . multiseries . Phylogenetic analysis , focusing on ITS and LSU gene sequences , showed a close genetic relationship between the Turkish strain and other strains of P . multiseries . Domoic acid levels , quantified using LC-MS/MS during exponential and stationary growth phases , ranged between 46 and 24 pg cell ( -1 ) , with minor amounts of isoDA ( A , D and E ) also detected . These findings highlight the importance of monitoring P . multiseries in Turkish coastal waters due to its significant potential for DA production . This study provides valuable insights into the morphology , phylogeny , and toxin production of P . multiseries , as well as its potential implications for management of marine resources and public health protection . It offers a comprehensive examination of this potentially toxic diatom species in Turkish coastal waters .
The north-western Adriatic Sea is one of the most eutrophic areas of the Mediterranean Sea and an important aquaculture region , accounting for about 90% of Italian shellfish production . Since the 1970s , this area has experienced frequent harmful algal blooms , posing risks to consumers and coastal ecosystems . Despite the regular monitoring required by European legislation , long-term studies integrating taxonomic analysis of phytoplankton species , associated biotoxins , and environmental data remain limited . This study examines an 11-year dataset ( 2012-2022 ) from the Emilia-Romagna region coast , focusing on timing and occurrence trends of toxic dinoflagellates related to the shellfish toxicity . Phytoplankton species distribution and biotoxins content in farmed mussels were analysed , with particular attention to the presence of analogues . From 2012 to 2015 , the most prevalent toxins were yessotoxins ( YTXs , up to 44 mg kg ( -1 ) ) , primarily homo-YTX and 45OH homo-YTX , which were associated with autumn blooms of Gonyaulax spinifera and Lingulaulax polyedra . From 2015 , okadaic acids and derivatives ( OAs , up to 941 microg kg ( -1 ) ) became the most prevalent phycotoxin group , associated to Dinophysis fortii and Dinophysis acuminata presence during autumn . This temporal shift was likely driven by increasing surface water temperature and salinity , which contributed to reduced water column mixing favouring oligotrophic species . Notably , low levels of YTXs persisted in mussels despite decreased abundances of producing species . Additionally , Alexandrium spp . cells were consistently detected , even in the absence of saxitoxins ( STXs ) in bivalves . These findings highlighted the need for integrated studies on strain-specific toxicity , phycotoxins accumulation in bivalves , and field monitoring .
Microcystis aeruginosa is considered a harmful cyanobacterial species due to its ability to produce microcystins ( MCs ) and its increasing prevalence in estuarine environments . While previous studies have demonstrated the effects of individual environmental factors on either growth or toxin content of M . aeruginosa , potential interactive effects and resulting changes in its toxicity remain unclear . In this study , we first conducted an orthogonally designed growth experiment to assess potential effects of changes in temperature , salinity , pH , and nutrient conditions . Subsequently , we performed a full-factorial growth experiment focusing on temperature and salinity as key variables . Intracellular and extracellular MCs content , as well as phycocyanin levels , were measured during both exponential and stationary growth phases . Toxicity was further evaluated based on mortality and swimming behavior of the epibenthic copepod Nitokra spinipes and the planktonic copepod Acartia tonsa . Results showed that both growth rate and MCs content significantly increased with temperature ( from 15 to 28 degrees C ) but decreased with higher salinity ( from 8 to 16 ppt ) . Moreover , cell density was significantly correlated with both intracellular and extracellular MCs contents . A significant interaction between temperature and salinity was observed . No correlation was found between intracellular MCs and phycocyanin contents . Finally , exposure to M . aeruginosa resulted in decreased swimming speed , increased inactivity , and higher mortality in A . tonsa , compared to the non-toxic Rhodomonas salina . Our study highlights the consequences of temperature and salinity on M . aeruginosa growth and toxin production , offering increased insights into the potential ecotoxicological risks of future blooms .
The harmful algal species Karlodinium veneficum ( K . veneficum ) poses a significant threat to aquatic ecosystems , economic stability , and human health due to its toxin production and widespread occurrence . Rapid climatic changes and eutrophication have intensified harmful algal blooms ( HABs ) , making the timely detection of K . veneficum critical . To address this need , we developed a rapid and accurate detection method of K . veneficum by combining Recombinase Aided Amplification ( RAA ) with CRISPR/LbCas12a . This method targets the internal transcribed spacer ( ITS ) sequence of K . veneficum and utilizes the " collateral activity " of CRISPR/LbCas12a for visualization . Our method can detect plasmid DNA as low as 9 x 10 copies/microL and genomic DNA as low as 6 x 10 ( -2 ) ng/microL , achieving a detection limit of 10 cells of K . veneficum through a simplified DNA extraction process . The entire detection process , from DNA crude extract to result visualization , can be completed in as fast as 90 min , making it suitable for field applications requiring a rapid response . In addition , our method was validated against a wide range of non-target microalgae species , confirming its specificity to K . veneficum and eliminating the risk of cross-reactivity . Overall , the RAA-CRISPR/LbCas12a system is simple , accurate , and sensitive , showing great potential for field applications in monitoring K . veneficum .
Harmful algal blooms ( HABs ) , driven by warming oceans and increased eutrophication , are negatively affecting aquatic ecosystems as well as human health . Blooms of diatom Pseudo-nitzschia spp . produce a neurotoxin , domoic acid ( DA ) , which can be concentrated by filter feeders , including shellfish . Consumption of DA-contaminated seafood causes amnesic shellfish poisoning . DA causes well-established effects on neurons , inducing neurotoxicity by binding to ionotropic glutamate receptors . However , its effects on non-neuronal cells including microglia , the resident immune cells in the brain , are less well understood . Microglia play critical roles in brain health , and disruptions in microglial activity during development can have long-term impacts on brain function and disease risk . The objective of this study was to examine the effects of developmental DA exposure on microglia using zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) . We characterized effects of DA exposure on microglial abundance and morphology at two developmental stages ( 2 and 4 days post-fertilization ( dpf ) ) . We additionally assessed impacts on cell death , cytokine expression , and startle response behavior . In older larvae ( 4 dpf ) , microglial effects occurred only at the highest dose ( 3 ng DA per larvae ) and coincided with severe morphological defects . In contrast , 2 dpf exposure to lower doses ( 1 ng DA per embryo ) caused transient tremors without gross abnormalities but exposure to either 1 or 3 ng DA per larvae increased microglial abundance and altered microglial morphology . In contrast , 4 dpf exposure to 3 ng DA per larvae reduced microglial numbers . Increases in mRNA levels of il1b , il4 , and tgfb were observed after 4 dpf exposure , but no significant cytokine changes were detected at 2 dpf . Overall , the effects of DA are highly developmental stage-specific , with microglial reactivity occurring at doses that do not cause gross morphological changes . These findings suggest that neuroinflammation may arise at lower DA doses , indicating a potential mechanism for subtle toxic effects and emphasizing the need for further research to better understand the consequences of low-dose DA exposure on microglial function .
Margalefidinium polykrikoides is a cosmopolitan dinoflagellate that blooms in coastal waters . Despite genomic evidence that it belongs to Group III and so closely related to isolates from Puerto Rico , Malaysia , North America , and Central America , M . polykrikoides blooms in the Chesapeake Bay at warmer temperatures and lower salinities than in coastal ecosystems occupied by its closest relatives . In this study , the effect of temperature and salinity on the growth rate and total cell yield of an M . polykrikoides VA culture isolate were examined and compared with environmental observations made during M . polykrikoides blooms in the Chesapeake Bay . M . polykrikoides group III VA strain grew at 18-32 C and 15-30 salinity . M . polykrikoides group III VA strain grew better at warmer temperatures and lower salinities than other M . polykrikoides strains from related groups , but did not grow at 16 or 34 C or at a salinity of Low salinity and excessively warm temperatures interacted to inhibit M . polykrikoides group III VA strain growth at 32 C and 15 salinity . Temperature and salinity likely interact in estuarine waters to inhibit or promote M . polykrikoides bloom initiation and development . The range of water temperatures observed during M . polykrikoides blooms in the Chesapeake Bay was narrower than what was observed for most of the other dinoflagellate species that bloom there , but the range of salinity was the broadest . M . polykrikoides bloomed at warmer temperatures and higher salinities than most of the other bloom-forming dinoflagellate species in the Bay .
BACKGROUND : Germ cell tumors ( GCTs ) are neoplasms usually originating in the gonads , most often affecting young patients . Intravascular GCTs are exceptionally rare and potentially fatal due to cardiac and embolic complications . CASE SUMMARY : A 17-year-old patient presented with weight loss , abdominal pain , and dyspnea . Imaging revealed an intravascular mass extending from the inferior vena cava ( IVC ) into the right heart chambers and pulmonary arteries . The tumor was successfully removed via surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass . Histopathologic diagnosis was a mixed non-seminomatous GCT . Recovery was uneventful , and follow-up imaging showed no intravascular lesions . Cisplatin-based chemotherapy was started with curative intent . DISCUSSION : Intravascular GCT is a rare phenomenon , presenting mostly with retroperitoneal disease affecting the IVC . Cardiologists assess complications and interpret cardiovascular imaging . A multidisciplinary approach is crucial for improving outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Cardiac metastasis of malignant tumors is rare but can mimic myocardial infarction ( MI ) . We review a case of myopericardial metastasis presenting as ST-segment elevation MI ( STEMI ) and the clinical characteristics of cardiac injury from malignant metastasis . CASE SUMMARY : A 78-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer and recently diagnosed pulmonary spindle cell carcinoma presented with progressive tongue pain related to metastasis . Her electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevations in leads I , aVL , and V with reciprocal changes in leads III and aVF on a background of atrial fibrillation . She had no chest pain , but elevated lactate ( 6 mmol/L ) and high-sensitivity troponin T ( 45 ng/L ) raised concern for STEMI . Coronary angiography revealed no obstructive coronary disease . Echocardiogram found an intramyocardial mass extending into the pericardium . The patient was transitioned to comfort care because of her poor oncologic prognosis . TAKE-HOME MESSAGES : In advanced cancer , myocardial metastasis should be considered a cause of persistent ST-segment elevations . Echocardiography should be prioritized to identify structural abnormalities , such as malignant myocardial infiltration , whereas coronary angiography remains essential to rule out acute MI when clinically indicated .
The development of multifunctional antibacterial hydrogel dressings with enhanced mechanical properties and biological activity is essential for advancing wound healing strategies . In this study , we report the design and synthesis of a novel multifunctional hydrogel ( PVA-Alg/FP ) , developed by integrating Fe ( 3+ ) , protocatechualdehyde ( PA ) , polyvinyl alcohol ( PVA ) , and sodium alginate ( Alg ) . The hydrogel was crosslinked via multiple dynamic bonds and hydrogen bonds , avoiding the use of toxic crosslinking agents and eliminating the need for additional modification or purification steps . This approach enables the straightforward and efficient preparation of the hydrogel . The resulting hydrogel exhibits outstanding mechanical properties , with a tensile strength of 2 kPa . More importantly , compared with conventional PVA-Alg hydrogels crosslinked by glutaraldehyde or epichlorohydrin , our PVA-Alg/FP hydrogel demonstrates a diverse range of functional characteristics , including a high self-healing efficiency of 4 % within 10 min , as well as plasticity , ductility , adhesion , Deferoxamine mesylate ( DFO ) -responsive removal , and near-infrared ( NIR ) photothermal properties . Additionally , it demonstrates outstanding biocompatibility and a broad spectrum of biological activities , including antioxidant , anti-inflammatory , and antibacterial effects , as well as promoting cell migration . Furthermore , the hydrogel accelerates full-thickness skin wound healing in a Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) -infected rat model , providing compelling evidence of its potential as a therapeutic material for infection-induced wounds .
Rhamnogalacturonan-I type pectin polysaccharide from wolfberry has immunity activity , but its intestinal immunity activity and structure-activity relationship in the small intestine was still unclear . This study comparatively investigated the intestinal immune activity of wolfberry-derived high and low branched Rhamnogalacturonan-I type pectin polysaccharides ( H-LBP and L-LBP ) and explored the interaction mechanism with mechanical barrier . In the normal mechanical barrier model , both H-LBP and L-LBP could cross mechanical barrier with transport rates of 2 % and 25 % , thereby directly enhancing macrophage viability and phagocytic ability after crossing the mechanical barrier . The transport mechanism of H-LBP in mechanical barrier included the clathrin- and caveolin-mediated pathways . In the damaged mechanical barrier model , H-LBP could significantly enhance mechanical barrier integrity , reduce the production of neurotransmitter ( NO ) and inflammatory cytokine ( TNF-alpha ) , thereby exerting indirectly intestinal immune activity . Transcriptome analysis showed that the interaction mechanism between H-LBP and damaged mechanical barrier mainly involved signaling pathway regulating cell growth and survival ( PI3K-AKT ) . Western blot experiment and molecular docking simulation confirmed that H-LBP could reduce the expression of p-PI3K , p-AKT and cleaved Caspase H-LBP had stronger directly and indirectly intestinal immune activity than L-LBP . These findings were useful for the application of H-LBP in improving intestinal immunity oral formulations .
Galactose-rich polysaccharides from Ganoderma lucidum have emerged as promising immunomodulatory agents , yet their structural characteristics and mechanisms of action remain poorly understood . Here , we isolated and characterized a novel galactose-rich polysaccharide ( GLP-1b , 79 kDa ) from Ganoderma lucidum . The analysis revealed a unique structure comprising an alpha-1 , 6-linked galactan backbone with C-2/C-3 acetylation , and complex branching with diverse terminal residues including T-alpha-L-Fuc- ( -4-OAc ) , T-alpha-D-Man , and T-alpha-D-Glc . In vitro studies demonstrated that GLP-1b enhanced macrophage function through TLR4-dependent activation of NF-kappaB and MAPK signaling pathways , resulting in increased NO production and pro-inflammatory cytokine secretion . In a cyclophosphamide-induced immunosuppression mouse model , GLP-1 administration significantly restored immune homeostasis by normalizing CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) T cell ratios , elevating CD19 ( + ) B cell percentages , enhancing immunoglobulin production , and maintaining intestinal barrier integrity . Analyses revealed concurrent changes in immune parameters , gut microbiota composition ( including Lactobacillus and Alistipes populations ) , and metabolic profiles Metabolomics identified key changes in immune-supportive metabolites , including phospholipids and TCA cycle intermediates , as well as modulation of bile acid pathways . These findings demonstrate that GLP-1b exhibits immunomodulatory activities both in vitro and in vivo , with immune effects that coincide with changes in gut microbiota and host metabolism . These observations provide insights for developing polysaccharide-based immunotherapeutics .
Pectin is a heterogeneous polysaccharide mainly found in the cell walls of plants . Owing to its unique biological and functional properties , pectin is widely used across various industrial sectors , including the food , pharmaceutical , and cosmetic industries . The conventional method of industrially extracting pectin from plant materials is to use prolonged heating under highly acidic conditions . This process poses several drawbacks , including system corrosion , high energy consumption , and environmental concerns . This review article evaluates the potential application of deep eutectic solvents ( DESs ) as green alternatives to conventional solvents for pectin extraction , due to their exceptional extraction efficiency , minimal toxicity , low cost , eco-friendliness , and reusability . The classification , synthesis procedures , and physicochemical properties of DESs are reviewed . Additionally , the application of DESs for pectin extraction is discussed , both alone and in combination with other emerging extraction techniques , such as ultrasonic , microwave or high-pressure methods . Finally , the advantages and disadvantages of using DESs for pectin extraction are discussed . DESs has already shown considerable potential for the sustainable extraction of pectin from various plant sources , while preserving its functional attributes . The wide range of substances available for preparing DESs enables their extraction properties to be tailored for particular applications , allowing them to meet the specific needs for pectin extraction . DESs can be used in combination with other emerging extraction technologies to improve its pectin extraction efficiency . Therefore , the optimization of DES-assisted extraction techniques may lead to new sustainable methods for isolating pectin .
Combining frontal ultrafiltration ( FU ) and ultrasound ( US ) processes , an orthotropic organization of cellulose nanocrystals ( CNCs ) suspensions was achieved and characterized at multiscale , from the nanometer length scale by small angle X-ray scattering ( SAXS ) and dichroism , to the micrometer length scale by small angle light scattering ( SALS ) . A dedicated channel cell has been developed to simultaneously generate a vertical acoustic force via a vibrating blade at the top and a transmembrane pressure force through the membrane at the bottom . Three specific orientations in three successive layers were revealed in a one-step FU-US process . In a first layer at the bottom , the CNCs were concentrated under the action of transmembrane pressure with their director aligned parallel to the horizontal membrane surface . In a second upper layer a random orientation of the CNCs was detected . Finally , in the upper part of the channel , a third layer of CNCs with their director vertically oriented was revealed . Near the membrane surface , transmembrane pressure forces dominate , leading to highly concentrated CNCs deposition with enough consistency to avoid any change in orientation induced by the US at the top of the channel . At increasing distances from the membrane , acoustic radiation forces become predominant , reorienting the CNCs vertically .
The principal disease impacting pepper production is Phytophthora blight , which nanoselenium ( nano-Se ) controls well but has high storage requirements and low heat resistance . Varying pectin amounts yielded pectin-modified nano-Se ( nano-Se@PT ) with 1 % , 5 % , 1 % , and 2 % concentration . As pectin content grew , nano-Se@PT particle size reduced , zeta potential value rose , and thermogravimetric temperature climbed . The incorporation of nano-Se@PT can improve its stability and thermal resistance at 40 degrees C and 70 degrees C . Nano-Se@PT outperformed nano-Se in fungicidal and Phytophthora capsici inhibition . In vitro antifungal experiments showed that nano-Se@PT could significantly inhibit mycelium growth with an EC of about 4 mg/L . The particles adsorbed on the surface of mycelium , inducing death by destroying cell membranes , mitochondria , and nuclei . Non-targeted metabolomics analysis showed that nano-Se@PT treatment disrupted the mycelium growth and metabolism and changed amino acids , nucleotides , and sugar levels . In vivo experiments , 2 % nano-Se@PT had the lowest disease index and the best preventive therapy . Rhizosphere soil microbial analysis showed that nano-Se@PT recruited beneficial microorganisms such as Bacteroides , Lactobacillus , and Bifidobacterium in pepper plants , improving their Phytophthora capsici resistance and growth . The findings suggest that nano-Se@PT might be a unique pepper disease control technique and shed light on plant fungal disease management .
Sericin ( SER ) , a well-known globular protein , has garnered considerable interest owing to its biological activity and its availability as a by-product from the silk industry . It is a promising option for the synthesis of biomaterials due to its many therapeutic applications . However , the applicability of Sericin films is limited due to its inherent brittle nature . In this study , we have investigated a novel combination of Sericin ( SER ) and Xanthan gum ( XG ) as a plasticizer to create a Sericin-based film with enhanced mechanical and biological performance . This newly developed SER/XG film obtained via physical gelation route , have demonstrated excellent mechanical features in wet state . Therefore , we performed in-situ gelation rheology to correlate the structural features of critical gel ( early stage percolation network ) with the mechanical properties of the film . Such analysis suggests that the presence of XG suppresses the kinetic arrest of protein in the form of aggregates , leading to significant improvement in the mechanical performance of films . In order to fully comprehend the synergistic SER/XG relationship towards film-forming capabilities , FTIR spectra were also examined . Additionally , these films showed remarkable cell adhesion and proliferation . Finally , the cytocompatibility , hemolysis , and cell-proliferation staining tests carried out to examine the film ' s in vitro use to highlight the potential of these SER/XG composites as a sustainable material for biomedical applications .
Obesity is increasingly recognized not only for its systemic health impacts but also for its association with visual defects and eye diseases . This chapter explores the relationship between obesity and ocular health , highlighting the mechanisms by which metabolic dysregulation influences visual outcomes . Obesity exacerbates risk factors such as hypertension , dyslipidemia , and insulin resistance , which compromise retinal and optic nerve health . Conditions like diabetic retinopathy , age-related macular degeneration , and glaucoma are discussed in the context of obesity-related inflammation , oxidative stress , and altered vascular function , focusing on the retina as one of the body ' s most metabolically demanding tissues . Key pathways include adipose-derived cytokines that disrupt retinal homeostasis , and the effects of insulin resistance on retinal cells and vasculature . Furthermore , this chapter covers emerging evidence on the advances of genetic factors linking diabetic retinopathy to retinal impairments . By elucidating these interactions , we aim to provide insight into preventive and therapeutic strategies that could mitigate vision loss among individuals with obesity .
Genetics is a significant risk factor for developing type 2 diabetes , with a family history conferring a 5-3-fold increased risk . Intriguingly , this heritable risk is higher when the affected parent is the mother , suggesting a potential role of mitochondrial genetics -maternally inherited DNA - in diabetes pathogenesis , a hypothesis this chapter will explore . While obesity mediates some of the genetic risk of type 2 diabetes , the chapter and will focus on genetic influences on diabetes independent of obesity . Mechanistically , genetic variants directly or indirectly contribute to insulin resistance across key tissues , including liver , muscle and adipose tissue . This insulin resistance prevents the liver from efficiently suppressing glucose production in response to insulin and impairs glucose uptake in muscle during postprandial states . Insulin resistance is driven by complex interactions between the genome and environmental , which can , in turn , influence gene expression and contribute to worsening of metabolic dysfunction . This chapter examines how tissue-specific genetic changes drive insulin resistance in individual organs and how these localized dysfunctions contribute to the broader , multi-organ metabolic dysfunction that characterize type 2 diabetes .
Prader-Willi syndrome ( PWS ) is a complex genetic disorder arising from abnormalities on chromosome 15q2-q13 , characterized by distinct physical , cognitive , and behavioral features that evolve across the lifespan . Early manifestations include severe hypotonia , feeding difficulties , and failure to thrive in infancy , progressing to hyperphagia , obesity , intellectual disabilities , and behavioral challenges in later stages . Additional features include growth hormone deficiency , short stature , delayed puberty , and other endocrine abnormalities . Genetic advances have illuminated the role of imprinted genes , such as SNORD116 , in driving the syndrome ' s core features , offering insights into its variability and severity . Emerging research on targeted pathways , including oxytocin and ghrelin signaling , holds promise for innovative treatments addressing hyperphagia and behavioral symptoms . This chapter provides a comprehensive overview of PWS ' s clinical features , natural history , and molecular underpinnings , underscoring the importance of early diagnosis , multidisciplinary care , and precision medicine in optimizing outcomes and enhancing the quality of life for individuals with PWS .
Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by motor and nonmotor dysfunctions . Its pathological hallmark is the aggregation of a-synuclein in the central nervous system ( CNS ) , leading to widespread loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra ( SN ) . Interestingly , metabolic disorders localized in the periphery , such as diabetes mellitus , frequently co-occur with PD . Emerging evidence highlights a bidirectional relationship : metabolic diseases may accelerate PD progression , while PD can exacerbate metabolic dysfunction . Beyond these associations , a growing body of research suggests that dysfunction in the peripheral nervous system , the primary communication bridge between the brain and peripheral organs , plays a critical role in these comorbidities . Autonomic nerve perturbation may accelerate dopaminergic neuronal loss in the SN and exacerbate metabolic dysregulation . This chapter synthesizes current evidence linking autonomic dysfunction with the progression of PD and related metabolic disorders , and it explores innovative therapeutic strategies leveraging this bidirectional relationship to address PD progression .
AIMS : CD31 ( platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1 ) is a transmembrane glycoprotein involved in cell adhesion and signal transduction that is primarily expressed in vascular endothelial cells , platelets , neutrophils , and certain tumour cells . We investigated CD31 expression in cancer cells by conducting a pan-cancer gene expression analysis using data from cancer cell lines as well as an immunohistochemical analysis of surgically resected cancer specimens . The goal was to elucidate the frequency and distribution of CD31 expression across cancer types and its diagnostic significance . METHODS : Gene expression data from 1073 cancer cell lines were analysed to determine the frequency of CD31 expression across different cancer types . Immunohistochemical analysis was performed on 358 resected cancer specimens , focusing on adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas . The analysis compared the frequency of CD31 expression among specific cancer subtypes and between histological types . RESULTS : In gene expression analyses , adenocarcinomas showed a higher frequency of CD31 expression than did squamous cell carcinomas . Immunohistochemically , CD31 expression was observed in breast apocrine carcinomas ( 0% ) , hepatocellular carcinomas ( 8% ) , uterine endometrioid adenocarcinomas ( 6% ) , ovarian high-grade serous carcinomas ( 0% ) , ovarian clear cell carcinomas ( 0% ) and urothelial carcinomas ( 0% ) . No CD31 expression was detected in oesophageal , renal , prostate or cervical cancers . CONCLUSIONS : CD31 expression is more frequent in adenocarcinomas than in squamous cell carcinomas , with variability among cancer subtypes . Recognising CD31-positive cancers is critical to avoid misdiagnosing them as endothelial-derived tumours . The mechanisms underlying CD31 expression in cancer remain unclear and warrant further investigation .
A man in his 60s with dry eye symptoms was noted to have angioid streaks under the peripapillary retina . Congenital dyserythropoietic anaemia was the major health issue throughout his life , requiring venesection for iron overload , but no transfusions for many years . Close inspection of the eyes with optical coherence tomography also detected small subclinical optic disc drusen , which have not been reported in association with congenital dyserythropoietic anaemia . Together , optic disc drusen and angioid streaks represent an ectopic calcification phenotype in the eye and can be seen in the more common inherited condition of pseudoxanthoma elasticum or other inherited haemolytic anaemias such as sickle cell or thalassaemia . These associations highlight the role of pyrophosphate as a physiological inhibitor of calcification , and deficiencies of serum pyrophosphate lead to excessive and ectopic calcification . This raises intriguing hypotheses for the treatment of optic disc drusen , angioid streaks and other conditions of ectopic calcification .
BACKGROUND : Sickle cell disease ( SCD ) with vaso-occlusive pain crisis ( VOC ) has a major impact on healthcare resource utilisation and poses a significant financial burden for the patients . This study examines the economic implications of managing VOC in individuals with SCD in India , from the perspectives of patients , healthcare system and society . METHODS : This cross-sectional , observational study included 1000 patients with SCD across 14 centres enrolled from November 2021 to June Data were collected systematically using a structured electronic case record form . Employing a cost-of-illness approach , the study assessed the economic impact of SCD and VOC management , including assessing patient/caregiver costs , healthcare provider costs and societal burdens extrapolated to the larger SCD population in India . FINDINGS : Patients incurred substantial out-of-pocket expenses , with a median ( IQR ) annual expenditure of INR 22 080/US$267 ( IQR : INR 36 990/US$7 ) , representing 65% ( 53 ) of their annual household income . Overall , catastrophic healthcare expenditure ( CHE ) for total annual average SCD care with VOC management was experienced by 624 patients ( 40% ) . Moreover , 334 patients ( 4% ) experienced CHE of >25% of the annual household income . Patients with SCD with VOC had significantly higher median annual healthcare expenditures and used a higher median percentage of their yearly household income on healthcare compared with those without VOC ( 82% vs 08% ; p<001 ) . Cost incurred by healthcare providers for VOC management in different healthcare facilities ( outpatient department/emergency department/intensive care unit ) was similar across different reimbursed facilities ( government tertiary care hospitals , non-governmental organisation-operated healthcare centres and government-subsidised healthcare setups ) . The estimated societal burden for VOC management in 1 year for 1000 patients visiting different healthcare facilities was around INR 35 119 074 ( ~US$42 million ) . INTERPRETATION : These findings highlight the considerable economic strain on both patients and healthcare providers in SCD and VOC management , which is similar to the other non-communicable diseases emphasising the urgent need for targeted interventions to improve financial hardships among patients . FUNDING : The study was funded by Novartis Healthcare Private Limited .
Infertility , affecting one in six couples worldwide , poses significant health and social challenges . While both male and female factors contribute to infertility , male infertility causes remain underexplored , with about 34% of cases classified as unexplained . A few studies focus on the role of lipids in male fertility , and some lipids are rising as key players in spermatozoa . This review highlights the importance of lipids , particularly phospholipids , neutral lipids , and glycolipids , in spermatozoa during capacitation and the acrosome reaction ( AR ) . The dynamic lipid profile of human spermatozoa is crucial for their development , maturation , and fertilization capability . During epididymal maturation , sperm undergo crucial biochemical changes , including increased production of phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin , which enhance membrane integrity and mobility . Increased levels of ceramide affect membrane fluidity and signalling necessary for sperm function . As spermatozoa enter the female reproductive tract , they adjust their lipid content for capacitation and fertilization . Lipid signalling is crucial for human spermatozoa , influencing their viability and fertilization potential during transit through the female reproductive tract . Lysophosphatidic acid , abundant in seminal plasma , enhances sperm motility , facilitates the AR by promoting glycolysis and calcium influx , and is important for maintaining sperm viability . The remodelling of lipid rafts , enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipids , is essential for signal transduction and capacitation . Sphingolipids , particularly sphingosine 1-phosphate and ceramide , play significant roles in sperm capacitation and AR by promoting reactive oxygen species production and calcium signalling , respectively . Understanding these lipid dynamics will increase our knowledge of the complexity of sperm metabolism .
BACKGROUND : Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) can be transmitted from mother to child either through transplacental infection or via blood-to-blood contact during or immediately after delivery . Early and accurate risk assessments are essential for guiding clinical decisions and implementing effective preventive measures . Data mining techniques are powerful tools for identifying key predictors in medical diagnostics . OBJECTIVE : This study aims to develop a robust predictive model for mother-to-child transmission ( MTCT ) of HBV using decision tree algorithms , specifically Iterative Dichotomiser 3 ( ID3 ) and classification and regression trees ( CART ) . The study identifies clinically and paraclinically relevant predictors , particularly hepatitis B e antigen ( HBeAg ) status and peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( PBMC ) concentration , for effective risk stratification and prevention . Additionally , we will assess the model ' s reliability and generalizability through cross-validation with various training-test split ratios , aiming to enhance its applicability in clinical settings and inform improved preventive strategies against HBV MTCT . METHODS : This study used decision tree algorithms-ID3 and CART-on a data set of 60 hepatitis B surface antigen ( HBsAg ) -positive pregnant women . Samples were collected either before or at the time of delivery , enabling the inclusion of patients who were undiagnosed or had limited access to treatment . We analyzed both clinical and paraclinical parameters , with a particular focus on HBeAg status and PBMC concentration . Additional biochemical markers were evaluated for their potential contributory or inhibitory effects on MTCT risk . The predictive models were validated using multiple training-test split ratios to ensure robustness and generalizability . RESULTS : Our analysis showed that 20 out of 48 ( based on a split ratio of 8 from a total of 60 cases , 42% ) to 27 out of 57 ( based on a split ratio of 95 from a total of 60 cases , 47% ) training cases with HBeAg-positive status were associated with a significant risk of MTCT of HBV ( chi=16 , P= . 007 , df=8 ) . Among HBeAg-negative women , those with PBMC concentrations >/=8 x 10 cells/mL exhibited a low risk of MTCT , whereas individuals with PBMC concentrations <8 x 10 cells/mL demonstrated a negligible risk . Across all training-test split ratios , the decision tree models consistently identified HBeAg status and PBMC concentration as the most influential predictors , underscoring their robustness and critical role in MTCT risk stratification . CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates that decision tree models are effective tools for stratifying the risk of MTCT of HBV by integrating key clinical and paraclinical markers . Among these , HBeAg status and PBMC concentration emerged as the most critical predictors . While the analysis focused on untreated patients , it provides a strong foundation for future investigations involving treated populations . These findings offer actionable insights to support the development of more targeted and effective HBV MTCT prevention strategies .
Dietary extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) or vesicle-like nanoparticles ( VLNs ) have been shown to exert beneficial functions in a wide range of diseases such as cancer , colitis , and metabolic diseases . They have also been used as natural carriers for medications . Despite the promising translational potential of dietary EVs or VLNs , the molecular mechanisms of their absorption in the gastrointestinal tract are not well understood . In this study , we investigated the absorption mechanisms of garlic chive-derived VLNs ( GC-VLNs ) using C57BL/6J mice and a human intestinal epithelial cell line , Caco-2 cells . We found that orally administered GC-VLNs crossed the epithelial layer of the small intestine and entered the underlying lamina propria . GC-VLNs were taken up and transported across the fully differentiated Caco-2 epithelial monolayer . Proteins and lipids , but not RNAs , in GC-VLNs mediated their uptake by Caco-2 cells . Chemical inhibitor treatments demonstrated that macropinocytosis and fast endophilin-mediated endocytosis ( FEME ) played key roles in the internalization of GC-VLNs . On the other hand , clathrin-coated pit-mediated endocytosis and clathrin-independent carrier/glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein-enriched early endocytic compartment endocytosis did not contribute to GC-VLN uptake . Activation of macropinocytosis and FEME using their specific activators promoted the internalization of GC-VLNs . In addition , genetic manipulation of key molecules in macropinocytosis and FEME confirmed the important engagement of these two specific endocytic pathways in GC-VLN absorption by human intestinal epithelial cells . Our study has provided proof-of-principle evidence to advance our understanding of the absorption mechanism of GC-VLNs , which would be the key to further manipulation and engineering of these nanoparticles to improve their delivery efficiency as therapeutic modalities or drug carriers . FAU - Nguyen , Phuong Linh
Preeclampsia ( PE ) , a severe pregnancy-specific disorder , poses significant health risks to both mothers and fetuses . Certain dietary habits , such as tea consumption , may affect the activity of enzymes involved in hormone metabolism , leading to alterations in the levels of important pregnancy-related hormone metabolites , such as 2-methoxyestradiol ( 2-MeO-E ) , which may contribute to the development of PE . To investigate the effect of tea intake on pregnancy , we conducted both in vivo and in vitro experiments . Pregnant rats were administered tea polyphenols and epigallocatechin gallate ( EGCG ) by gavage starting from pregnancy day We found that tea polyphenols and EGCG intake during pregnancy induced PE-like symptoms in the rats such as hypertension , proteinuria and growth restriction of fetuses . These symptoms could be rescued by cotreatment of 2-MeO-E ( ) Notably , the levels of the estrogen metabolite 2-MeO-E in rat blood were significantly reduced , and the activity of the enzyme responsible for its metabolism , catechol-O-methyltransferase ( COMT ) , was also inhibited . Furthermore , EGCG impaired the migration ability of HTR8/SVneo cells , which could be alleviated by 2-MeO-E supplementation . These findings indicate that tea polyphenols intake during pregnancy can cause PE-like symptoms by inhibiting COMT activity and production of 2-MeO-E .
Curcumin , a plant derived natural product isolated from Curcuma longa . The aim of this study is to investigate the anti-proliferative effects and the underlying mechanisms of curcumin in Cutaneous T cell lymphoma ( CTCL ) , a type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma that primarily affects the skin . The study found that curcumin induced apoptosis in CTCL cells by activating mitochondrial signaling pathways and caspases leading to growth inhibition . Furthermore , Curcumin treatment downregulated the expression of S-phase kinase protein ( SKP2 ) with concomitant upregulation of GADD45A , CDKN1A and CDKN1B . Curcumin also suppresses the expression of anti-apoptotic molecules including XIAP and cIAPs . Curcumin treatment of CTCL cells generates reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and depletion of glutathione . Pretreatment of CTCL with N-acetyl cysteine prevented curcumin-mediated generation of ROS and prevention caspase activity . Co-treatment of CTCL with subtoxic doses of curcumin and bortezomib potentiated the anticancer action . Co-treatment of CTCL with subtoxic doses of curcumin and bortezomib potentiated the anticancer action . Molecular docking studies revealed a strong binding affinity of curcumin to the active site of SKP2 , primarily involving key residues crucial for its activity . Altogether , our results suggest that targeting SKP2 and GADD45A signaling by curcumin could be an attractive strategy for the treatment of CTCL .
Postmenopausal conditions are linked to elevated risks of various complications , particularly cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) . While estrogen supplementation is a standard intervention , it increase adverse effects of CVDs and breast cancer prevalence in postmenopausal women . Spermidine , a naturally occurring polyamine , has recently emergeed attention for its protective effects in heart pathologies . However , the cardioprotective effects of spermidine against estrogen deprivation-related cardiac dysfunctions remain unclear . We hypothesized that spermidine exerted cardiometabolic protection by mitigating mitochondrial dysfunction , mitochondrial dynamics alterations , oxidative stress , inflammation , and cardiac cell death in female rats with ovariectomy ( OVX ) -induced estrogen deprivation . Fifty female Wistar rats were divided into a sham group ( n = 10 ) and a 12-week-OVX-operated group ( n = 40 ) . The OVX rats were randomly assigned to receive either vehicle treatment , spermidine ( OS , 20 mg/kg/day , p . o . , n = 10 ) , or estradiol ( OE , 50 mg/kg/day , s . c . , n = 10 ) for 8 weeks . Echocardiography and heart rate variability ( HRV ) were assessed , followed by euthanasia for cardiac tissue collection and blood sampling . OVX rats exhibited impaired metabolic , mitochondrial , and autophagic functions , along with elevated oxidative stress , inflammation , and apoptosis , leading to LV dysfunction . Spermidine and estrogen equally ameliorated all cardiometabolic adverse effects in OVX-induced estrogen-deprived female rats , suggesting spermidine as a promising alternative therapy for preventing cardiometabolic dysfunction in postmenopausal women .
Phospholipids that occur predominantly in the plasma membrane of mammalian cells are phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , phosphatidylserine ( PS ) , phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) , sphingomyelin ( SM ) , and phosphatidylinositol ( or phosphoinositide ; PI ) . These membrane phospholipids are a promising source of disease-related biomarkers . Phospholipids and their metabolites are altered by the type of disease or disease progression . Metabolomics has shown that increased or decreased levels of altered phospholipids and their metabolites can be useful indicators for the diagnosis of various human diseases . In this review , we discuss the utility of the five major membrane phospholipids ( PC , PS , PE , and SM , and PI ) and their metabolites as diagnostic biomarkers of human diseases .
Trifoliate orange ( Poncirus trifoliata ) is the commonly used rootstock for citrus grafting propagation . Accelerating the secondary growth of trifoliate orange stem is important to reduce the grafting propagation time . However , the factors and molecular mechanisms that may accelerate its secondary growth are still largely unknown . In this study , we found that exogenous auxin application dramatically increased the stem diameter , xylem cell layers , and xylem width in trifoliate orange as compared to the control group . Differently , exogenous cytokinin resulted in a marked increase of branches , while gibberellin or 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid ( ACC ) treatment didn ' t significantly influence the stem diameter . Subsequently , qRT-PCR analysis showed that exogenous auxin notably upregulated transcript levels of key secondary growth-related genes , including CYCD3 , C3H17 , SND1 , WOX4 , and PXY , as well as Auxin Response Factor 7 gene ( ARF7 ) . Subcellular localization and transcriptional activity analysis indicated that ARF7 functions as a transcriptional activator . We then conducted yeast one-hybrid assays and revealed that ARF7 can bind to the promoters of CYCD3 , C3H17 , and WOX4 ; furthermore , dual-luciferase assays indicated ARF7 can enhance their expression . In conclusion , our results demonstrated that auxin promotes the secondary growth of trifoliate orange stems at least through ARF7 inducing CYCD3 , C3H17 , and WOX4 expression . These findings provide a novel clue in research for shortening grafting propagation time and improving seedling efficiency in the citrus industry .
Nascent proteins fold in a stepwise manner during all stages of biogenesis . This progression is particularly complex for ion channels composed of multiple biogenic and functional domains and subunits . The human Kv3 ion channel , encoded by KCNA3 , is expressed in neuronal and immune cells . Its dysregulation produces chronic inflammatory disease and autoimmune disorders , which affect many in the US population , especially women . Using the unbiased ' genome-first ' approach with integrated patient biobank databases , we identified KCNA3 gene variants associated with human disease and examined their impact on Kv3 channel biogenesis . Our tertiary and quaternary folding assays and all-atom molecular dynamics simulations show that KCNA3 gene variants in T1 , the channel ' s intersubunit recognition domain , manifest early-stage T1 folding defects , energetic instabilities , and conformational distortion of subunits concomitant with tertiary unwinding . These findings identify molecular mechanisms by which patient-associated variants influence channel assembly , potentially contributing to diverse clinical phenotypes underlying human disease .
Autophagy and sleep are two evolutionary conserved mechanisms across the animal kingdom . Autophagy is a pathway for the degradation of cytoplasmic material in the lysosome , playing important roles in the homeostasis and health of the organism . On the other hand , sleep is a homeostatically regulated state with numerous presumed essential roles , including the restoration of tissue and physiological functions , such as brain waste clearance via the activation of the glymphatic systems . Given that sleep and autophagy are crucial processes tightly linked to homeostasis and maintenance of good health , understanding how they interact is of great interest , especially as sleep quality decreases in our modern 24-hour societies . Autophagy represents a promising target for therapeutic interventions in this context . Here , we review the contrasted and complementary roles of autophagy and sleep in maintaining homeostasis . Specifically , we focus on recent evidence suggesting that sleep impairment may increase autophagy , while autophagosome levels may modulate the amount of sleep . We discuss outstanding questions at the intersection of these two fields , highlighting methodological shortcomings in the current literature . Overcoming these limitations will be instrumental to design new experiments with the aim of answering one of the greatest mysteries of our time - why do we sleep ?
Allosteric regulation of protein function , where a perturbation at one site induces a conformational shift or alters dynamics at a distal functional site , plays a key role in numerous biological processes . The ability to introduce allostery using synthetic biology principles holds significant potential both for biomedical and biotechnological applications , and for advancing our understanding of natural allostery . By customizing target proteins for sensing specific chemical or physical signals , including ligand binding and environmental cues , we aim to allosterically modulate the function of a target protein depending on the selected triggers . This approach , unlike active-site targeting , offers greater specificity and selectivity and can allosterically couple diverse physiological processes . Synthetic biology strategies have been developed recently for designed allosteric protein regulation , including the design of allosteric modulators such as domain insertion , generation of de novo allosteric protein switches , and application of engineered allosteric mechanisms to control cellular functions . We examine the application of artificial intelligence ( AI ) -based generative protein design and other important milestones , challenges and opportunities in this field , highlighting how these approaches could be applied for the development of new therapeutic strategies .
Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase ( eEF2K ) , a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase , exhibits paradoxical activation and overexpression in numerous tumors , suggesting a potential advantageous role for cancer cells . eEF2K phosphorylates and inactivates its downstream target , eukaryotic elongation factor 2 ( eEF2 ) , thereby negatively regulating protein synthesis . Despite being a translation inhibitor , eEF2K inhibition alone has demonstrated limited anti-cancer efficacy . This study investigates a novel approach to targeting eEF2K in cancer therapy , exploring its potential beyond its established role in protein synthesis regulation . We found that pharmacological inhibition of eEF2K using A484954 resulted in minimal cytotoxicity but effectively reduced eEF2 phosphorylation . Surprisingly , eEF2K inhibition impaired de novo protein synthesis and induced mild oxidative stress across multiple cancer cell lines . Furthermore , eEF2K inhibition compromised cellular antioxidant defenses , leading to enhanced ROS accumulation when challenged with oxidative stressors . Notably , eEF2K inhibition potentiated ferroptosis induction and lipid peroxidation when combined with ferroptosis inducers or glutathione depletion . These findings were corroborated by eEF2K silencing , which similarly increased basal ROS levels , enhanced sensitivity to oxidative stress , and promoted ferroptosis . Our results reveal a previously unrecognized role of eEF2K in maintaining redox homeostasis and suggest that targeting eEF2K may be a promising strategy to sensitize cancer cells to ferroptosis-inducing therapies .
Mechanotransduction is a critical biological phenomenon in living organisms , with Piezo1 being one of the key mechanotransduction ion channel genes . Piezo1 is widely expressed across various tissues and organs , playing critical roles in numerous biological processes , including innate and adaptive immune activation . While most studies on Neuroendocrine and Piezo functions have focused on vertebrates and higher invertebrates ( e . g . , Drosophila ) , however research in lophotrochozoan animal models remains scarce . To address this gap , we utilized Helobdella austinensis ( phylum : Annelida ) to investigate the putative function of Piezo1 and uncovered evidence related to the neuroendocrine system through spatiotemporal characterization . Our findings represent the developmental contribution of Piezo1 from early to late embryonic stages by demonstrating its expression in a lophotrochozoan . Intriguingly , the expression of Hau-Piezo1 was specifically detected in salivary gland-related precursors and tissues during development . Additionally , Neuroendocrine expression was observed in a lophotrochozoan , suggesting the correlation between neuronal stimulation and immune cells along the salivary glands of leeches . Furthermore , the downregulation of Hau-Piezo1 following bacterial challenge suggests that Piezo1 plays a role in regulating inflammatory responses . Taken together , we characterized the spatiotemporal expression pattern of Hau-Piezo1 in leeches and demonstrated its conserved and diversified functions based on its phylogenetic relationship with other homologs . These results suggest that Piezo1 may serve as a salivary gland marker in leeches and provide evidence for the presence of immune cells along the salivary glands in lophotrochozoans .
As obligate intracellular pathogens , viruses rely on the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) of host cells for viral protein synthesis and processing , leading to increased ER loading , which in turn triggers ER stress and activates the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) . And this process is intricately linked to both viral infection and the host ' s immune response . White spot syndrome virus ( WSSV ) is one of the most detrimental viral pathogens affecting farmed crustaceans such as shrimp and crayfish , but the interaction between WSSV-induced ER stress and viral infection has not been comprehensively investigated . Here , we demonstrated that WSSV infection activated all three UPR pathways , including IRE1 pathway , ATF6 pathway and PERK-eIF2alpha pathway in crayfish hematopoietic tissue cells . In contrast to the promoted WSSV infection by IRE1 pathway and ATF6 pathway , the activated PERK-eIF2alpha pathway exhibited an inhibitory effect on viral infection , which was achieved via attenuation of global protein translation of host cells mediated by phosphorylation of eIF2alpha . Whereas , the continuous expression of WSSV proteins appeared to bypass this translational repression . Collectively , these results emphasized the key role of the PERK-eIF2alpha pathway , activated by WSSV-induced ER stress , in regulating viral infection , which might constitute an important aspect of the host cell ' s immune response to viral infection .
Ionophore polyether antibiotics ( IPAs ) exhibit remarkable therapeutic potential in combating parasitic diseases and cancer , yet their clinical utility is significantly hampered by severe hepatotoxicity . Despite widespread documentation of IPAs-induced hepatotoxicity , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain elusive . This study elucidates the role of ferroptosis in IPAs-induced liver injury and delineates the associated regulatory pathways . Through comprehensive in vitro ( HepG2 cells ) and in vivo ( mice ) investigations , we demonstrate that IPAs , particularly the highly toxic maduramicin ( Mad ) , induce hepatocyte ferroptosis . Mechanistic studies employing lipid reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) quantification , intracellular Fe ( 2+ ) assays , and western blot analysis revealed that IPAs-induced ferroptosis occurs through an autophagy-dependent pathway . Surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) and molecular docking analyses confirmed direct binding and regulation of transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) by maduramicin . This interaction activates TFEB , subsequently mediating nuclear receptor coactivator 4 ( NCOA4 ) -regulated lysosomal degradation processes that culminate in ferroptosis-mediated hepatotoxicity . Importantly , our findings extend beyond maduramicin , as other IPAs including monensin and salinomycin similarly targeted TFEB , triggering hepatocyte ferroptosis . Crucially , adeno-associated virus serotype 8 ( AAV8 ) -mediated TFEB knockdown in mice conferred protection against IPAs-induced liver injury and attenuated hepatocyte ferroptosis . These findings establish TFEB-mediated NCOA4-dependent ferritinophagy and ferroptosis as central mechanisms in IPAs-induced hepatotoxicity , thereby identifying TFEB as a promising therapeutic target for mitigating IPAs-induced liver damage . This study provides critical insights into the molecular mechanisms of IPAs-induced liver injury and offers a novel strategy for therapeutic intervention .
Alternative splicing ( AS ) plays a crucial role in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression , influencing skeletal muscle growth and development . However , research into transcriptomic landscape of AS and its key isoforms associated with skeletal muscle in goats is comparatively limited compared with other livestock species such as pigs . In this study , longissimus dorsi muscles from 4 Macheng black goats and 4 Boer goats were used to perform Oxford Nanopore Technologies full-length sequencing and Illumina RNA-seq . A total of 91 , 874 unique full-length non-chimeric sequences and 10 , 955 novel isoforms were identified . Subsequently , we detected 13 , 866 AS events and 1702 novel long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) , with exon skipping ( 4024 , 02 % ) being the most prevalent AS event . In addition , a total of 2267 differentially expressed isoforms ( DEIs ) were identified between Macheng black and Boer goats . Among these DEIs , 1301 isoforms were up-regulated and 966 were down-regulated in Macheng black goats . Functional enrichment analyses revealed that these DEIs were predominantly associated with pathways related to skeletal muscle development , cellular metabolic processes , and genetic information processing . Notably , we identified LUC7L-201 as an important isoform that negatively regulates cell proliferation and differentiation in goat primary myoblasts , as demonstrated by overexpression experiments . Overall , this study enhances our understanding of the transcriptomic diversity underlying skeletal muscle growth and development in goats , providing valuable insights for future research and potential applications in livestock management .
In 2020 , the third NIH Consensus Development Project on Criteria for Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease ( GVHD ) Clinical Trials was held with the goals of identifying gaps in understanding , prevention and treatment of chronic graft-versus-host disease ( GVHD ) and making actionable recommendations that would advance the field . An interim meeting was held in October 2024 to review progress on the 2020 recommendations . Each group was charged with reviewing their previous recommendations , assessing whether the field is on track to eventually achieve the goals , and considering whether recommendations should be modified in light of new data or insufficient progress . This manuscript summarizes the Working Groups ' reports and helps define the research agenda for future studies in chronic GVHD . Overall , modest progress has been made on most initiatives . Some studies in progress will address key recommendations and results are eagerly anticipated .
BACKGROUND : The long-term financial toxicity for patients who received Chimeric Antigen Receptor ( CAR ) T-cell therapy and their caregivers remains under-explored . AIMS : The aim of this research is to describe the financial toxicity of patients who are in remission one to five years after receiving CAR T-cell therapy and their caregivers and explore associations between social determinants of health ( SDoH ) , clinical factors , and health-related quality of life ( HRQoL ) with financial toxicity . METHODS : This cross-sectional study included adults who had received CAR T-cell therapy for a hematologic malignancy and their current or former informal caregivers . Patients and caregivers completed measures of financial toxicity , HRQoL , and a demographic survey , while patients also completed cognitive function and symptom burden measures . Descriptive and bivariate statistics were used in this exploratory analysis . RESULTS : There were 58 patients and 31 caregivers study participants . Financial toxicity was relatively low , 25% of patients reported mild to moderate and 18% of caregivers reported mild to severe financial toxicity . Patient financial toxicity was significantly associated with patient income , HRQoL domains , the mental HRQoL summary score , and symptom burden . Caregiver financial toxicity was significantly associated with caregiver age , employment status , HRQoL domains , and the mental HRQoL summary score . CONCLUSIONS : Patients and caregivers reported low levels of financial toxicity in the present study : A majority of patients ( 75% ) and caregivers ( 81% ) experienced zero to minimal financial toxicity . Certain patients and caregivers at higher risk for financial toxicity may benefit from targeted interventions coupled with supportive care to address other HRQoL needs .
The Practice Guidelines Committee and the Transplant Infectious Disease Special Interest Group of the American Society for Transplantation and Cellular Therapy developed guidelines focusing on human herpes virus 6B ( HHV-6B ) . A compendium-style approach was used to address a series of standalone frequently asked questions ( FAQs ) , supported by tables and figures to spotlight key concepts . Adult and pediatric infectious disease and hematopoietic cell transplantation ( HCT ) content experts developed these FAQs , and finalized recommendations after consensus was reached . This ninth topic in the series focuses on the relevant risk factors , diagnostic considerations , prophylaxis , and treatment approaches relevant to HHV-6B infections after HCT and Chimeric Antigen Receptor ( CAR ) -T-Cell Therapy .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Primary hepatocytes are difficult to expand in vitro . HGF and EGF have long been used to maintain primary hepatocytes in vitro but with limited growth promotion effect . Previously , we have reported that the combination of IL6 with HGF and EGF ( or the combination of IL6 with either of these growth factors ) could support almost infinite growth of hepatocytes . However , the downstream pathways of these growth factors in hepatocyte proliferation remain elusive . METHODS : Transcriptome analysis was carried out to analyze the activation of pathways under various culture condition . Pathway inhibitors were used in cell culture and a hepatectomy mouse model to study the function of different pathways in hepatocyte growth and liver regeneration . RESULTS : We discover in surprise , that under growth condition , TGFbeta pathway which is typically linked to growth inhibition is activated . TGFbeta activation is mainly induced by HGF via MAPK-ERK signaling , blocking TGFbeta pathway significantly enhances H6 ( HGF and IL6 ) -induced hepatocyte expansion in vitro . However , blocking the MAPK-ERK signaling almost completely blocks H6-induced cell growth , indicating a dual effect of the ERK pathway . Further study demonstrates that the HGF-ERK pathway could also upregulate the protein level of YAP and the downstream genes associated with the Hippo-YAP signaling pathway , exerting a positive effect in hepatocyte proliferation . In mouse partial hepatectomy model , blockade of the activated TGFbeta signaling also significantly promotes liver regeneration in vivo . CONCLUSIONS : We report a dual role of HGF-ERK signaling in hepatocyte culture . By blocking the growth-inhibiting TGFbeta pathway , we could further promote H6-induced hepatocyte proliferation .
BACKGROUND : Colorectal cancer ranks among the most common and deadliest cancers worldwide . Previous studies have found that the molecular motor Mysoin 5b ( MYO5B ) is decreased at the level of mRNA in colorectal cancer , but the mechanism behind this reduction remains unknown . In normal cells , MYO5B function is contingent on proper folding by the chaperone protein UNC45A . However , little is known about the role of UNC45A in colorectal cancer . METHODS : We examined RNA , methylation and protein levels of MYO5B and UNC45A and identified microRNAs targeting UNC45A in normal colon , colon adenocarcinoma ( COAD ) samples , cancer cell lines and human colonic organoids . Cells were treated with the DNA-demethylating agent 5-aza-2 ' -deoxycytidine to examine the role of methylation in regulating MYO5B levels . Additionally , the UNC45A targeting miR-296-3p was inhibited in cells and UNC45A levels were examined . RESULTS : Consistent with previous reports , we found that MYO5B mRNA was reduced in COAD compared to controls . We observed that the MYO5B gene was hyper-methylated in COAD and treatment of cancer cells with a demethylating compound increased MYO5B expression ; suggesting that methylation silences MYO5B in COAD . The MYO5B folding chaperone UNC45A was not changed at the mRNA level but was decreased at the protein level . We identified several UNC45A targeting miRNAs which were elevated in COAD patients . We confirmed that these miRNAs were elevated in colon cancer cell lines compared to normal colonic organoids and found that inhibition of one of these miRNAs increased UNC45A protein . CONCLUSIONS : These findings suggest that decreased levels of MYO5B in COAD may result from gene methylation and improper folding by UNC45A .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Dysregulation of naive BCR signaling and the generation of antibody-secreting B cells ( ASCs ) have been implicated in the development of autoimmune diseases . Anergic B cells ( B ( ND ) s ) are naive B cells with a low-density of surface IgM-BCR , thus demonstrating attenuated autoantigen responsiveness . However , potential regulatory mechanisms of B cell anergy and their roles in autoimmune hepatitis ( AIH ) remain unestablished . METHODS : The frequency of circulating B cell subsets and comparative phenotypic analyses were conducted using flow cytometry . Primary human CD19 ( + ) B cells were differentiated in vitro with inosine or specific inhibitors , followed by qPCR , western blotting , and flow cytometry analyses . The effects of inosine were evaluated in a concanavalin A-induced AIH mouse model , and a specific equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 ( ENT1 ) inhibitor was utilized both in vitro and in vivo . RESULTS : An elevated frequency of ASCs but a diminish of B ( ND ) s were observed in AIH . B ( ND ) s showed attenuated activated status compared to C ( NB ) s . B ( ND ) s uniquely exhibited high-level expression of CD73 , the rate-limiting enzyme in purinergic metabolism . Inosine , as the end-product of the extracellular purinergic pathway , significantly enhanced B ( ND ) s expansion and inhibited ASCs differentiation in vitro . Mechanically , extracellular inosine was taken up via ENT1 , promoting surface IgM internalization by inhibiting the PARP14-STAT6 signaling pathway . Pharmacological inhibition of ENT1 with dipyridamole reversed therapeutic effects of inosine both in vitro and in vivo . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings revealed that inosine was a crucial metabolite that induced immune tolerance of B cells , thus proposing a potential intervention strategy for AIH .
Cutaneous Lupus is an inflammatory skin disease causing highly morbid inflamed skin and hair loss . In order to investigate the pathophysiology of cutaneous lupus , we performed single-cell RNA and spatial sequencing of lesional and non-lesional cutaneous lupus skin compared to healthy controls . Pathway enrichment analyses of lesional keratinocytes revealed elevated responses to type I interferon , type II interferon , tumor necrosis factor , and apoptotic signaling . Detailed clustering demonstrated unique fibroblasts specific to lupus skin with likely roles in inflammatory cell recruitment and fibrosis . We also evaluated the association of retroelement expression with type I interferons in the skin . We observed increased retroelement expression which correlated with interferon-stimulated genes across multiple cell types . Moreover , we saw elevated expression of genes involved in RIG-I and cGAS-STING pathways , which transduce elevated nucleic acid signals . Treatment of active cutaneous lupus with Anifrolumab reduced RIG-I and cGAS-STING pathways in addition to the most abundant retroelement family , L2b . Our studies better define type I interferon-mediated immunopathology in cutaneous lupus and identify an association between retroelement expression and interferon signatures in cutaneous lupus .
BACKGROUND : Visual scoring of tubular damage has limitations in capturing the full spectrum of structural changes and prognostic potential . Here , we investigated if computationally quantified tubular features can enhance prognostication and reveal spatial relationships with interstitial fibrosis . METHODS : Deep-learning and image-analysis approaches were employed on 254/266 Periodic acid Schiff-stained whole slide image ( WSI ) kidney biopsies from participants in the NEPTUNE/CureGN prospective observational cohort studies ( 135/153 with focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ( FSGS ) and 119/113 with minimal change disease ( MCD ) ) to segment cortex , tubular lumen ( TL ) , epithelium ( TE ) , nuclei ( TN ) , and basement membrane ( TBM ) . One hundred four pathomic features were extracted from these segmented tubular substructures and aggregated at the patient level using summary statistics . In the NEPTUNE dataset , tubular features were quantified at the WSI level and in manually segmented regions of mature interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy ( IFTA ) , pre-IFTA , and non-IFTA . Minimum Redundancy Maximum Relevance was then used to select features most associated with disease progression and proteinuria remission . Ridge-penalized Cox models evaluated their predictive discrimination compared to clinical/demographic data and visual-assessment . Models were evaluated in the CureGN dataset . RESULTS : Nine features were predictive of disease progression and/or proteinuria remission . Models with tubular features had high prognostic accuracy in both NEPTUNE and CureGN , and higher prognostic accuracy for both outcomes compared to conventional parameters alone in NEPTUNE . TBM thickness/area and TE flattening and/or reduced cell size progressively increased from non- to pre- and mature IFTA . CONCLUSIONS : Previously underrecognized computationally derived and quantifiable tubular characteristics may contribute to improving prognostic accuracy and risk stratification in patients with FSGS/MCD . Future studies are needed to test their generalizability across different diseases and populations before they can be deployed in clinical practice .
Sepsis-associated encephalopathy ( SAE ) is one of the most common and severe complications of sepsis . Although lactate and neutrophils play pivotal roles in SAE , the mechanisms linking lactate , neutrophils , and neuroinflammation in SAE remain largely unclear . In this study , SAE model was induced in C57BL/6 J mice via intraperitoneal lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) injection , with lactate production inhibited by administering the lactate dehydrogenase inhibitor FX- Neutrophils were visualized by immunofluorescence , and immune cell subsets were quantified via flow cytometry . Our findings revealed that lactate levels in the skull bone marrow ( SBM ) were significantly elevated in SAE mice , accompanied by decreased SBM neutrophils and increased neutrophil extravasation into the meninges . These effects were reproduced in exogenous lactate-administered normal mice . Further studies identified that a CD31 ( + ) channel between the SBM and meninges facilitates neutrophil mobilization and migration . Notably , FX-11 injection significantly alleviated SAE in mice , as indicated by reduced SBM lactate production , inhibited neutrophil mobilization , decreased meningeal neutrophil extravasation , suppressed microglial activation and reduced hippocampal inflammatory cytokines as well . In summary , our results show that elevated lactate levels in the SBM promote neutrophil migration between the skull and meninges and hence exacerbate SAE neuroinflammation , which can be potently improved in the presence of the lactate inhibitor FX- The migration of neutrophils influenced by lactate in the skull-meninges-brain axis could be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of SAE .
Cell membranes regulate water flow to maintain homeostasis , cell volume , and osmotic balance . Aquaporins ( AQPs ) enable selective water transport , making precise permeability measurements essential for understanding their function . The current methods have limitations , including high resource demands and poor control over membrane properties like bilayer tension . In this study , the droplet interface bilayer ( DIB ) system was used to measure aquaporin water channel activity . Unlike conventional water permeability assays , this method uniquely quantifies lipid bilayer tension by determining droplet internal pressure . This pressure-determined DIB ( PDIB ) method was used to investigate the water permeability of a lipid bilayer reconstituted with Escherichia coli aquaporin Z ( AqpZ ) . Water permeability increased in an AqpZ concentration-dependent manner at bilayer tensions of 2-0 mN/m and was inhibited by mercury ( IC , 340 muM ) . Fluorescence microscopy was performed to visualize and quantify AqpZ molecules , thereby allowing us to derive an approximate estimate of the unitary water permeability . Although this study established the PDIB method and demonstrated its applicability to AqpZ , this technique may also facilitate future investigations on the effects of lipid bilayer tension on aquaporin function and the fundamental mechanisms of water transport across biological membranes .
In recent years , drug delivery systems have become an important platform for cancer diagnosis and treatment . However , developing a novel nanoplatform that synergistically integrates multimodal therapies for precision tumor treatment remains a significant challenge . To address this , we employed Astragalus polysaccharide ( ASP ) with immunomodulatory function as the framework to load podophyllotoxin ( PPT ) and IR780 , and constructed a novel ROS/GSH/NIR triple-response nanoplatform ( IR780@PPTASP ) . Under simulated tumor microenvironment conditions , IR780@PPTASP underwent controlled collapse and drug release . The loaded IR780 photosensitizer endowed IR780@PPTASP with exceptional photothermal and photodynamic properties . To further investigate the molecular mechanism of IR780@PPTASP on A549 cells , we conducted a series of experiments . The results demonstrated that IR780@PPTASP could significantly inhibit A549 cell proliferation and migration , induce the production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , and promote A549 cell apoptosis . Furthermore , in vivo experiments revealed that IR780@PPTASP could effectively inhibit the proliferation and metastasis of zebrafish transplanted tumors . Notably , IR780@PPTASP promoted the release of nitric oxide ( NO ) , increased the expression of CD40 , CD80 , CD86 , and MHC-II , thereby promoting macrophage maturation and activating T cell function . The developed ROS/GSH/NIR triple-response nanoplatform enables a synergistic approach to chemo-phototherapy-immunotherapy , offering significant promise for the precision treatment of tumors , effectively achieving multiple therapeutic effects simultaneously .
In this study , we investigated the molecular interaction between intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) and tannic acid ( TA ) , a natural polyphenol , to assess the potential impact of this interaction on cellular responses relevant to cancer . Binding analysis revealed that the IVIG-TA complex forms through a single binding site on the protein with lgK ( a ) = 08-20 , driven by hydrogen bonding and van der Waals interactions . Spectroscopic studies , including CD , UV-visible , and fluorescence analysis , indicated that TA induces partial changes in the secondary structure of IVIG and alters the microenvironment around specific tyrosine residues ( TYR33 , TYR98 , TYR99 ) . Molecular dynamics simulations further supported these findings , showing that TA binding leads to partial folding of the protein ' s heavy chain . Functional assays in breast cancer cell lines demonstrated that the IVIG-TA complex , which exhibited IC values nearly comparable to those of TA , was associated with increased intracellular ROS and LDH release , indicating enhanced oxidative stress and membrane disruption . However , caspase-3 activity remained relatively unchanged , suggesting that the observed cellular damage was induced through non-apoptotic mechanisms , potentially sensitizing cells to further damage from TA or other treatments . Although the extent of anticancer modulation under the current conditions was limited due to the relatively weak interaction between TA and IVIG , these findings suggest that further exploration of the IVIG-ligand interaction could lead to enhanced specificity in binding and modulation of small molecule activity . This work lays the foundation for future studies investigating the structural and biological implications of IVIG-ligand interactions in therapeutic contexts .
Biocompatible and degradable hydrogels have garnered interest in wound dressings due to their ability to absorb biological fluids with properties resembling natural tissues . In this study , polyvinyl alcohol ( PVA ) -chitosan ( CS ) -cefazolin ( Cef ) hydrogels were prepared using the solution casting method . To optimize hydrogel properties ( swelling and degradation ) , essential process parameters , including PVA concentration , CS concentration , blend ratio of PVA/CS , and glutaraldehyde ( GA ) percentage , were investigated using response surface methodology ( RSM ) . Experiments were performed at different pH levels ( 4 , 8 , 2 ) related to skin pH in various healing phases . Drug release studies showed that Cefazolin release was highest at pH 2 , making it highly beneficial for treating infections in high-pH wounds . At pH levels of 4 and 8 , the release was moderate to low , indicating a controlled release profile . Cytotoxicity tests revealed higher cell viability in treated samples compared to controls over five days . Results indicated that CS and PVA concentrations had a significant impact on the response variables , with increased CS amounts leading to enhanced swelling and degradation . The optimized hydrogel is characterized by FTIR , XRD , TGA , FESEM , EDX , AFM , porosity , gel content , mechanical properties , and antibacterial activity . Morphological evaluation confirmed suitable surface roughness for cell growth and wound healing , highlighting its potential as a wound dressing . The apparent porosity and gel content of the hydrogel were 90 % and 74 +/- 6 % , respectively . Mechanical tests showed tensile strength , elastic modulus , and elongation at break at 75 MPa , 824 MPa , and 87 % , respectively . The antibacterial activity against Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus , and Salmonella was reported as 4 +/- 5 mm , 37 +/- 1 mm , and 32 +/- 5 mm , respectively . These results and optimized process parameters highlight its potential for industrial wound care applications .
Amantadine hydrochloride ( AMH ) is a repurposed moiety of anti-viral category having significant response against Parkinsonism . Nasal route is linked with the direct delivery of drugs to brain through olfactory and trigeminal nerves . The mucociliary clearance is the major obstacle for effective delivery of drugs . The optimized formulation was coated with chitosan ( CH ) to enhance the residence time of formulation in the nasal cavity . The optimized NLCs exhibited particle size of 2 +/- 5 nm , PDI of 131 +/- 019 , zeta potential of -52 +/- 29 mV , EE of 06 +/- 3 % , and nasal flux of 03 +/- 9 mug/cm/h . FTIR analysis revealed AMH-excipient compatibility and encapsulation of AMH into NLCs . XRD analysis confirmed no polymorphic transition in the developed NLCs . Drug release exhibited sustained release of AMH ( 01 +/- 19 % ) up to 24 h . Ex vivo study ( goat nasal mucosa ) showed 22 folds enhanced permeability of AMH from AMH-NLCs in comparison to AMH-Sol . The recommended storage condition for AMH-NLCs was found to be 25 degrees C/60 % RH . AMH-NLCs showed high cell viability ( 23 +/- 49 % ) in comparison to AMH-Sol ( 14 +/- 81 % ) on HO induced PC12 cells at a concentration level of 100 mug/ml . In vivo studies exhibited effectiveness of CH-AMH-NLCs and AMH-NLCs and showed increased response when compared with amantadine solution ( pure form ) and marketed formulation .
Chlorpyrifos-induced oxidative stress is associated with intestinal barrier damage . Although some studies have suggested that the liver is the main target organ of chlorpyrifos , the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood . Initially , we determined the nontoxic effects of Sanghuangporus vaninii polysaccharide ( SVP-60 ) by acute toxicity experiments ( 2000 mg/kg ) . In the present study , we investigated to explore the potential mechanism behind the protective effect of SVP-60 against chlorpyrifos-induced hepatotoxicity . The results showed that chlorpyrifos exposure resulted in growth restriction and impaired liver function and intestinal barrier in mice ( 14 Days ) . Intervention with SVP-60 modulated the activities of antioxidant system enzymes and decreased the expression of inflammatory factors . SVP-60 effectively protected against chlorpyrifos-induced liver injury by inhibiting oxidative stress injury via Keap1/Nrf2 signaling pathway and improving inflammation . In addition , SVP-60 treatment ( 80 mug/mL ) reduced the presence of inflammatory factors TNF-alpha and IL-6 in HepG2 cells , decreasing TNF-alpha secretion from 412 mg/mL to 317 mg/mL and IL-6 secretion from 61 mg/mL to 34 mg/mL , and enhanced the activities of antioxidant enzymes SOD and GSH-Px . At the same time , the activities of antioxidant enzymes SOD and GSH-Px were enhanced , the activity of SOD increased from 15 U/mg prot to 27 U/mg prot , and the activity of GSH-Px increased from 378 U/mg prot to 429 U/mg prot , and the mRNA expression of Nrf2/Keap1 signaling pathway was regulated , and the mRNA expression of Nrf2 was up-regulated by 9 times , and the mRNA expression of Keap1 was down-regulated by 7 times . Meanwhile , SVP-60 attenuated the chlorpyrifos-induced intestinal barrier damage and intestinal permeability in mice , and the plasma endotoxin ( LPS ) level in the index of intestinal permeability was reduced from 689EU/mL to 465 EU/mL , which in turn reduced the secondary damage to the liver caused by LPS leakage . These findings establish a strong correlation between gut and liver injury indicators , highlighting the potential of SVP-60 to prevent and treat chlorpyrifos-induced liver injury by modulating the gut-hepatic axis . The aim of this study was to investigate the specific mechanism by which SVP-60 alleviates CPF-induced liver injury by modulating the gut-liver axis , focusing on its dual protective effects of anti-oxidative stress , inhibition of inflammatory pathways and repair of gut barrier function . Unlike the existing studies that only focused on the direct toxicity of chlorpyrifos to the liver , this study reveals for the first time the trans-organ regulatory mechanism by which SVP-60 indirectly mitigates hepatic injury through the repair of the intestinal barrier .
Current research on antibacterial hydrogel dressings remains predominantly focused on bacterial pathogen management , while facing technical bottlenecks in constructing synergistic antifungal therapeutic systems . The limitations of this narrow antimicrobial spectrum pose significant clinical challenges , particularly pronounced in burn wound management characterized by pathological healing microenvironments . Notably , existing biomaterials exhibit dual deficiencies when addressing polymicrobial infections : neither capable of mitigating antibiotic resistance risks nor equipped with active tissue regeneration modulation capabilities . More importantly , injectable self-healing adhesive dressings demonstrate remarkable advantages through their unique dynamic adaptability - enabling in situ filling of irregular wound cavities to maintain a sealed therapeutic environment , while achieving functional self-recovery following mechanical damage . These properties prove pivotal for enhancing dynamic repair efficacy in burn wound treatment . In this study , five distinct water-soluble derivatives of 5-fluorouracil-modified chitosan ( 5FC-CS ) were synthesized , each with degrees of substitution ( DS ) ranging from 006 to The resulting AgNPs-loaded 5-fluorouracil-modified chitosan solution was then reacted with an 8-arm-PEG-CHO solution , facilitating the formation of AgNPs-loaded 5-fluorocytidine-modified chitosan composite hydrogels ( Ag@5FC-CS/PEG ) through a Schiff base reaction . These hydrogels exhibit key properties including in situ injectability , rapid self-healing capabilities , favorable biocompatibility , strong hemostatic function , and significant antifungal and antibacterial activity . Notably , the hydrogel demonstrates a 100 % antifungal efficacy against C . albicans and a complete antibacterial effect against both S . aureus and E . coli . In animal model , the application of Ag@5FC-CS/PEG hydrogels led to a reduction in inflammatory cell infiltration , enhanced vascular formation , increased collagen deposition , and promoted more rapid regeneration of epithelial tissue . Thus , the AgNPs-loaded 5-fluorouracil-modified chitosan composite hydrogel holds great potential for medical applications in the treatment of burn wounds .
Aortic aneurysm ( AA ) is a genetic cardiovascular disease marked by progressive weakening and dilation of the aortic wall , often resulting in high mortality if untreated . Early diagnosis and prevention remain challenging . This study integrated genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) , proteome-wide Mendelian randomization ( PW-MR ) , and single-cell RNA sequencing data from large-scale cohorts ( FinnGen , deCODE Genetics , and UK Biobank Pharma Proteomics Project ) to identify new biomarkers and therapeutic targets for AA . Analyzing genetic data from 8125 AA patients and 381 , 977 controls , we identified four significant loci ( ADAMTS8 , PLCE1 , NOC3L , and SPSB1 ) . PW-MR highlighted numerous plasma proteins , with IL6R showing strong association and colocalization in both deCODE and UKB-PPP datasets . Multi-trait colocalization analysis supported IL6R ' s role , suggesting that drugs targeting IL6R , such as tocilizumab , may benefit AA treatment , though potential side effects warrant consideration . Single-cell analysis indicated that macrophages are crucial in AA progression , particularly through the IL6R-mediated inflammatory response . These findings emphasize IL6R as a potential target for early intervention and AA prevention . By integrating genetic associations , proteomic evidence , and single-cell insights , this study offers new strategies for identifying biomarkers , understanding disease mechanisms , and developing targeted therapies for aortic aneurysm .
Vinculin is a ubiquitously expressed focal adhesion protein that plays an important role in cell-matrix and cell-to-cell junctions . Metavinculin , a muscle-specific splice variant of vinculin , contains a 68-amino acid disordered insert region in its actin binding tail domain ( MVt ) . Mutations in this insert are linked to cardiomyopathies . This study investigates the solution structures and structural ensembles of wild-type ( WT ) and two mutant MVts , DeltaLeu954 and R975W , which have been associated with cardiomyopathies , using small-angle X-ray scattering ( SAXS ) and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations . SAXS analyses revealed subtle differences in the estimated maximum dimensions and corroborated the elongated shape of the MVts . Quantitative comparisons of SAXS profiles indicated similarity between the WT and DeltaLeu954 , whereas R975W exhibited differences in the small-angle region . MD simulations demonstrated reduced conformational flexibility and greater packing of the insert in WT compared to mutants . Notably , a salt-bridge observed between R975 and D928 in a WT simulation provides a structural basis for the destabilization caused by the R975W mutation . These findings provide insights into the structure and dynamics of WT and mutant MVt , reflecting the promise of SAXS combined with MD simulations to elucidate the structural properties of proteins with structural disorder .
This study integrates the beneficial properties of recombinant human collagen and carboxymethyl cellulose to synthesize a dual-network hydrogel designed to enhance liver hemostasis and facilitate wound healing . The materials were chemically modified to exhibit photo-curing characteristics , and a range of composite hydrogels were fabricated by varying the concentration ratios of the constituents . Mechanical testing revealed that the incorporation of carboxymethyl cellulose not only expedited the gelation time of collagen but also augmented its mechanical strength . Cellular assays demonstrated that the dual-network hydrogel possesses excellent biocompatibility , supports prolonged in vitro stem cell culture , and promotes fibroblast migration as well as endothelial cell tube formation . Both in vivo and in vitro experimental results substantiated that the dual-network hydrogels exhibit superior hemostatic efficacy , with minor variations in hemostatic performance observed across different hydrogel formulations . Application of the dual-network hydrogel to murine burn wounds resulted in enhanced wound healing , as evidenced by macroscopic and histological analyses , which indicated accelerated healing rates and improved tissue regeneration quality .
Glabridin ( Gla ) , a pyranoisoflavan , has diverse health benefits and significant applications in skincare due to its antioxidant , anti-inflammatory , anti-ageing , and UV-protective properties . This study aimed to enhance the entrapment efficiency of Gla by encapsulating it within enzymatically hydrolyzed sodium caseinate ( Eh SC ) , showing 34 +/- 24 % encapsulation efficiency . The successful incorporation of Gla into Eh SC@Gla nanoparticles was confirmed through FT-IR , XRD , and fluorescence spectroscopy . At the same time , the physical characterization by TEM , DLS , and PDI revealed uniformly spherical nanoparticles with an average diameter of about 120 nm . The enzymatically hydrolyzed Eh SC@Gla nanoparticles showed potent tyrosinase inhibitory activity and robust free radical scavenging abilities against DPPH and ABTS . At 32 mug/ml , they achieved 65 % DPPH and 99 % ABTS radical scavenging , outperforming free Gla ( 34 % and 17 % ) . Furthermore , Eh SC@Gla reduced B16 cell viability to 25 % while showing no toxicity to 3 T3 cells . It improved 3 T3 viability to 33 % under oxidative stress and lowered ROS levels by 69-fold . These nanoparticles showed selective cytotoxicity , strong intracellular antioxidant activity , and good biocompatibility . The current findings provide valuable insights for the development of advanced delivery systems and innovative formulations , and maximize the therapeutic and nutritional benefits of Gla across the skin care and cosmetics .
Studies have shown that inflammation is closely linked to the cancer development , and the patients with inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) have a higher risk of colon cancer . Celecoxib ( CXB ) and camptothecin ( CPT ) showed potential treatment for IBD and colon cancers , respectively . However , their applications are limited by synchronous delivery , water insolubility , and off-target side effects . Herein , a glutathione ( GSH ) responsive chondroitin sulfate A ( CSA ) -SS-CXB micelle loaded with CPT ( CSA-SS-CXB@CPT ) was prepared as a targeted system to treat colon cancer by anti-inflammatory and antitumor synergistic effect . Specifically , CSA had tumor tumor-targeting effect due to colon cancer lesion-high expression of CD44 receptors . In vitro results verified that CSA-SS-CXB@CPT selectively internalized into colon cancer HT-29 cells and had strong reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) elimination ability . The CSA-SS-CXB@CPT could rapidly release CXB and CPT in the tumor microenvironment for playing an anti-tumor role . In vivo experiments illustrated that CSA-SS-CXB@CPT significantly targeted tumor tissues and suppressed tumor growth without producing serious side effects in tumor-bearing nude mice . Therefore , this work provides an opportunity for targeted co-delivery of anti-inflammatory and chemotherapy drugs to treat colon cancer .
Elastin and elastin-derived compounds are promising biomaterials due to their biological activity , unique natural crosslinks , and ability to mimic native tissue properties . Solubilized elastin peptides retain the bioactivity of elastin and are more suitable for wound care applications than the insoluble form . Chemically solubilized elastins have shown advantageous effects in skin regeneration in humans . Here , five solubilized elastins were prepared via chemical ( stepwise and continuously hydrolyzed with oxalic acid - OxA-st-ELN and OxA-ELN , or with potassium hydroxide - KOH-ELN ) , enzymatic ( Enz-ELN ) , or combined ( Combi-ELN ) methods . OxA-st-ELN had the largest molecular weights ( MWs ) fragments , while Enz-ELN and Combi-ELN yielded the smallest . The effects of elastin preparations were evaluated on primary human cells - dermal fibroblasts and macrophages . In fibroblast assays , Enz-ELN induced elastin , collagen , and fibrillin-2 protein deposition , while other preparations exhibited levels comparable to the control . alpha-smooth muscle actin ( SMA ) expression remained low across all conditions . Continuous oxalic acid hydrolysis simplified the traditional stepwise approach while maintaining bioactivity . Macrophage studies showed chemical hydrolysates preserved the M0-like subtype , while Enz-ELN promoted a pro-inflammatory M1-like phenotype , and Combi-ELN had mixed effects . OxA-ELN and KOH-ELN appeared to be the most promising options for developing biomaterial dermal scaffolds that support tissue regeneration in vivo .
The growth and lipid accumulation of skeletal muscle directly affects the yield and meat quality characteristics of beef , which is the result of the interaction between skeletal muscle cells ( SMCs ) and intramuscular adipocytes ( IMAs ) . Therefore , in this study , a co-culture system was used to simulate the in vivo cellular microenvironment , aiming to reveal the interaction patterns between bovine SMCs and IMAs during the proliferation and differentiation stages . The results showed that , compared with SMCs cultured alone , the presence of IMAs in the co-culture system inhibited the expression of proliferation markers such as PCNA , CDK1 , CDK2 , CCNA2 , and CCNE2 in SMCs . This also affected the G1/S phase transition of SMCs , thereby inhibiting their proliferation rate . Meanwhile , the presence of IMAs also inhibited the expression of myogenesis markers such as MYHC , MYOD , MYOG , MYF5 , and MYF6 , thus hindering the myotube formation process of SMCs . Moreover , RNA-seq identified that the key genes APOE , APOD , SOX9 , CAV3 , SMPD3 and EDN2 that mediate the interaction between SMCs and IMAs in the co-culture system . Among that , APOE has a dual effect on myogenesis and lipid accumulation . Interfering with the expression of APOE inhibited the proliferation , differentiation and lipid accumulation of SMCs . Based on these findings , we determined that APOE is a key regulatory factor connecting muscle development and fat accumulation . As a potential intervention target , APOE has great potential and can open up new avenues for improving meat quality and production efficiency .
Although non-structural proteins of HPV are known to modulate interferon ( IFN ) responses , the specific role of HPV16 E4 in immune evasion remains poorly defined . In this study , we demonstrated that HPV16 E4 inhibited IFN and IFN-stimulated gene ( ISG ) expression induced by VSV , MHV , SeV , HSV1 , and HPV16 infection . Plaque assays revealed that E4-expressing cells produced higher titers of VSV and HSV1 , supporting its role in promoting viral replication . Dual-luciferase reporter assays and RT-qPCR analyses confirmed that HPV16 E4 attenuates IFN responses by targeting key antiviral pathways , including RIG-I/MDA5-MAVS , TLR3-TRIF , and cGAS-STING . Coimmunoprecipitation and immunoblotting assays revealed that E4 interacted with RIG-I , MDA5 , MAVS , TRIF , TBK1 , and IRF3 , thereby inhibiting the phosphorylation of TBK1 and IRF Confocal microscopy and nuclear-cytoplasmic fractionation demonstrated that E4 impaired IRF3 nuclear translocation , a pivotal step in IFN signaling . E4 also suppressed the JAK-STAT pathway , resulting in reduced ISG expression . Furthermore , E4 disrupted ISGF3 complex formation by interacting with STAT2 and IRF9 , thereby preventing the nuclear translocation of STAT1 , STAT2 , and IRF Collectively , these mechanisms facilitate viral replication and enable evasion of host antiviral immunity . These findings advance our understanding of HPV immune evasion strategies and suggest novel therapeutic targets for managing HPV-related diseases .
This study investigates the development of a pH-sensitive nanocarrier based on starch ( St ) , agarose ( Aga ) , and zinc oxide ( ZnO ) for the controlled delivery of curcumin ( Cur ) to breast cancer cells . St/Aga and St/Aga/ZnO hydrogels were prepared as nanocarrier matrices to encapsulate curcumin . We used a water-in-oil-in-water ( W/O/W ) emulsification process with olive oil to form a nanoemulsion that acted as a membrane to regulate drug release . FTIR and XRD analyses confirmed the incorporation of materials and the successful loading of curcumin . Zeta potential and DLS measurements , along with FESEM analyses , showed that the drug-loaded nanocarrier had a size of 6 nm and a surface charge of -4 mV , indicating good size distribution and stability . Morphological analysis revealed spherical particles with strong component compatibility . The curcumin release profile demonstrated pH-responsive behavior , reducing excessive consumption and side effects . Cytotoxicity was evaluated using the MTT assay and flow cytometry . Compared to free curcumin , the St/Aga/ZnO@Cur nanocomposites reduced cancer cell viability by 7 % . In the MCF-7 cell line , these nanocomposites achieved the highest apoptosis rate at 6 % , highlighting their effectiveness in inducing cancer cell death . These findings confirm that the engineered nanocarriers are efficient , and stable for prolonged , targeted , and pH-responsive delivery of curcumin .
Decellularized extracellular matrix derived from specific organs represents a promising platform for organoid development , offering distinct advantages in tissue engineering . This matrix maintains the complex three-dimensional network of biological macromolecules secreted by tissue-specific cells , including collagen , glycoproteins , and proteoglycans . This extracellular matrix orchestrates cellular behaviors , such as proliferation , migration , and differentiation , while maintaining optimal tissue homeostasis . The organ-specific composition of decellularized extracellular matrix preserves native biological cues , including growth factors and cytokines , as well as mechanical properties , facilitating natural cell-matrix interactions and promoting appropriate stem cell development . These characteristics make organ-derived decellularized extracellular matrix an ideal scaffold for organoid construction . The implementation of decellularized extracellular matrix enhances the physiological relevance of organoid models , which is particularly valuable in drug development , personalized medicine , and the study of complex organ microenvironments . This advancement significantly improves the translational potential of organoid technology for organ transplantation while providing robust research tools . Consequently , decellularized extracellular matrix-based organoid models offer superior platforms for preclinical therapeutic evaluation . This review examines recent progress in decellularized extracellular matrix-based organoid development , beginning with current application strategies and proceeding to an analysis of existing decellularized extracellular matrix-derived organoid models .
Chrysophyta polysaccharide ( CPP ) exhibits immunomodulatory and antioxidant properties . However , its potential to alleviate colitis remains unclear . This study aimed to examine the effects of CPP on colitis and its underlying mechanisms . CPP was administered at three doses : H-CPP ( 100 mg/kg/day ) , M-CPP ( 50 mg/kg/day ) , and L-CPP ( 25 mg/kg/day ) . Treatment with H-CPP and M-CPP significantly up-regulated tight junction proteins , inhibited epithelial cell apoptosis , regulated oxidative stress , and alleviated colitis . H-CPP and M-CPP treatments inhibited the NF-kappaB pathway and modulated TNF-alpha , IL-10 , and IL-1beta . Furthermore , H-CPP treatment improved the gut microbiota by increasing Akkermansia and Bifidobacterium while decreasing Clostridium sensu stricto 1 , Escherichia-Shigella , Dorea , and Parabacteroides . Simultaneously , H-CPP treatment promoted the production of Acetovanillone and L-Tryptophan . Therefore , in a dose-dependent manner , CPP reduces the severity of colitis by regulating cytokines , protecting intestinal mucosal barrier , promoting beneficial metabolites , and regulating gut microbiota . These findings will enhance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the health-regulating effects of CPP and the development of dietary supplements targeting colitis , with significant economic and social implications .
Marine environments are the warehouse of a variety of novel bioactive compounds prone to be explored by food and feed industry . The growing interest in sulphated polysaccharides has led to the search for new sustainable sources , such as seawater . These compounds are naturally concentrated in salt pan brine water due to their evaporation by wind and sunlight . To take advantage of these sources , sulphated polysaccharides were concentrated from salt pan brine water using a scalable membrane ultrafiltration system with 30 and 100 kDa cut-off . This process allowed to concentrate ten times the polymeric material of brine water into 9 g/L , rendering a fluffy polysaccharide rich material after drying . It was mainly composed of 23 % ( w/w ) of uronic acids , 19 % of sulphate esters , and 34 % ( w/w ) of neutral sugars . This polymeric material has shown to stimulate in vitro both human macrophages and Atlantic salmon head kidney SHK-1 cells in a range of 25-50 mug/mL without toxicity , showing potential to be used in both human food and aquaculture feeding .
BACKGROUND : The mechanistic relationship between respiratory disorders and brain function remains poorly understood , despite growing evidence of cognitive and neurological manifestations in respiratory diseases . We aim to identify whether specific brain network connectivity patterns causally influence respiratory disease susceptibility , while respiratory conditions might reciprocally affect brain network architecture . METHODS : We performed bidirectional Mendelian randomization analyses using genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) of brain network connectivity from UK Biobank resting-state functional MRI data ( N=31 , 453 ) and GWAS data from ten major respiratory conditions : chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) , asthma , idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( IPF ) , sleep apnea syndrome ( SAS ) , lung squamous carcinoma ( LUSC ) , lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) , small cell lung carcinoma ( SCLC ) , hospitalized COVID-19 , very severe COVID-19 , and bronchiectasis . Five MR methods , inverse variance weighted ( IVW ) with multiplicative random-effect model , weighted median , weighted mode , MR Egger , and MR-robust adjusted profile score ( MR-RAPS ) were employed to ensure causal inference . RESULTS : In forward analysis , five respiratory disorders - asthma , IPF , SAS , LUSC , and very severe COVID-19 - showed significant causal associations ( p<31x10 ( -4 ) ) with 11 rs-fMRI phenotypes , spanning multiple brain networks including the central executive , subcortical-cerebellum , motor , limbic , attention , salience , visual , and default mode networks . In reverse analysis , twelve brain functional networks demonstrated genetic associations with eight respiratory conditions ( COPD , asthma , IPF , SAS , LUSC , SCLC , hospitalized COVID-19 , and very severe COVID-19 ) , predominantly involving attention , salience , default mode , visual , and central executive networks . CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides preliminary genetic evidence suggesting potential causal relationships between brain network connectivity and respiratory disorders , contributing to our understanding of the lung-brain axis . While the identification of disease-specific network alterations offers promising insights , further clinical validation is needed before these findings can be translated into therapeutic interventions .
Protein prenylation has been implicated in a variety of cellular functions , including cytoskeletal remodeling , trafficking and fusion of secretory vesicles with the plasma membrane . It involves incorporation of either a 15-carbon farnesyl or a 20-carbon geranylgeranyl derivative of mevalonic acid into cysteines at the C-terminus of substrate proteins . At least four types of prenyltransferases , namely farnesyl transferase ( FTase ) and the geranylgeranyl transferases I-III ( GGTase-I , II , and III ) have been identified in mammalian cells . Published evidence suggests expression of functionally active forms of these prenyltransferases and their candidate substrate proteins in human islets , rodent islets , and clonal beta-cells . Pharmacological and molecular biological evidence implicates requisite roles for protein prenylation in glucose-stimulated insulin secretion . Evidence is also emerging to indicate significant defects in protein prenylome in beta-cell models of impaired insulin secretion and diabetes . This review will provide a status update on modulatory roles of protein prenylation , enzymes involved in this signaling pathway , their structural composition and regulation in the context of islet beta-cell function in normal health . In addition , experimental evidence on the metabolic fate of protein prenylation pathway in the pancreatic beta-cell following chronic exposure to diabetogenic stimuli is reviewed herein . Lastly , crucial gaps in our current understanding , and potential opportunities for future research in this area of islet biology are highlighted .
Degenerative disc disease ( DDD ) is a significant cause of chronic low back pain , often leading to disability and high healthcare costs . Current treatments , including physical therapy , pain management , and surgical interventions such as spinal fusion and total disc replacement , do not reverse degeneration . Bioactive therapies offer a potential alternative by targeting the underlying degenerative process . Cell-based therapies , including the use of mesenchymal stem cells and platelet-rich plasma , aim to restore disc structure and function by promoting extracellular matrix production and reducing inflammation . Early studies show potential benefits in pain relief and disc regeneration , but long-term efficacy remains unclear . Nucleus pulposus augmentation and replacement strategies , such as the use of hydrogel implants and in situ curing polymers , are aimed at restoring disc height and biomechanical function . While these strategies are promising , issues such as implant durability and migration require further study . Total disc replacement preserves motion and avoids adjacent-segment disease , but outcomes depend on patient selection and implant design . Despite encouraging results , bioactive therapies still require research to establish long-term safety and effectiveness . Advancements in biomaterials , patient selection criteria , and clinical trials will determine their role in the future management of DDD .
BACKGROUND : Acetaminophen ( APAP ) is the most commonly used analgesic and antipyretic drug , and its intentional or accidental overdose can lead to acute liver failure ( ALF ) . Rapid prognosis and the selection of appropriate patients for transplantation in ALF are crucial . Lactate is the end product of anaerobic glycolysis and an indicator for determining the oxygen status in cells . The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between serum lactate level and the prognosis of ALF due to acute APAP poisoning in patients referred to Razi Hospital , Ahvaz . METHODS : This cross-sectional and prospective study was conducted on 34 healthy individuals ( as controls ) and 34 patients diagnosed with acute APAP poisoning . Serum levels of APAP , lactate , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) , total bilirubin ( T . bil ) , direct bilirubin ( D . bil ) , and gamma-glutamyl transferase ( GGT ) were measured in healthy individuals and patients with acute APAP poisoning within 24 hours of admission . The relationship between the dose of APAP consumed , the amount of N-acetylcysteine ( NAC ) received , and the age and gender of the patients with lactate level was also evaluated . RESULTS : The mean dose of APAP in the patients was 75 gr . A total of 85% of the patients received NAC . The mean volume of NAC injection was 4 mmol/L . The number of women with APAP overdose was higher than men . Lactate level increased with increasing APAP doses . The mean serum lactate level significantly reduced after 24 hours compared to the initial admission , and the levels of liver markers increased significantly after 24 hours . CONCLUSION : In order to accept lactate as an international criterion in early identification of liver transplant candidate patients and reduce their mortality , clinical validity studies including definition and validation of clinical conditions related to lactate level and reliability tests are necessary . Therefore , early and periodic determination of serum lactate level seems to be essential as a promising biomarker for the prognosis of ALF caused by acute APAP poisoning .
Secreted frizzled related protein 5 ( sFRP5 ) , an anti-inflammatory adipokine , plays a crucial role in various diseases , and its serum levels are low in patients with coronary artery disease ( CAD ) . However , its role in atherosclerosis remains unclear . Therefore , we investigated the correlation between sFRP5 and plaque stability , along with the molecular mechanisms underlying atherosclerosis . In patients with CAD , serum sFRP5 levels were positively correlated with plaque stability , a predictor of thin-cap fibroatheromas ( TCFAs ) . Recombinant sFRP5 ( r-sFRP5 ) supplementation significantly increased plaque stability and ameliorated atherosclerosis progression in ApoE ( -/- ) mice . Aortic RNA-sequencing ( RNA-seq ) revealed sFRP5-mediated regulation in inflammatory cells . Our experiments confirmed that sFRP5 inhibits inflammation and macrophage migration . Mechanistically , Toll-like receptor 9 ( TLR9 ) was identified as a downstream target of sFRP5 , and sFRP5 suppressed TLR9 expression by decreasing c-Jun N-terminal kinase ( JNK ) phosphorylation . These findings suggest that serum sFRP5 levels are associated with plaque stability and play a protective role in atherosclerosis by attenuating inflammation and macrophage infiltration via inhibition of the JNK/TLR9 pathway , thereby ameliorating the progression of atherosclerosis . This study highlights the potential of sFRP5 as both a biomarker and therapeutic target for plaque stability in atherosclerosis .
In recent years , exosomes versatility has prompted their study in the biomedical field for diagnostic , prognostic , and therapeutic applications . Exosomes are bi-lipid small extracellular vesicles ( 30-150 nm ) secreted by various cell types , containing proteins , lipids , and DNA/RNA . They mediate intercellular communication and can influence multiple human physiological and pathological processes . So far , exosome analysis has revealed their role as promising diagnostic tools for human pathologies . Concurrently , artificial intelligence ( AI ) has revolutionised multiple sectors , including medicine , owing to its ability to analyse large datasets and identify complex patterns . The combination of exosome analysis with AI processing has displayed a novel diagnostic approach for cancer and other diseases . This review explores the current applications and prospects of the combined use of exosomes and AI in medicine . Firstly , we provide a biological overview of exosomes and their relevance in cancer biology . Then we explored exosome isolation techniques and Raman spectroscopy/SERS analysis . Finally , we present a summarised essential guide of AI methods for non-experts , emphasising the advancements made in AI applications for exosome characterisation and profiling in oncology research , as well as in other human diseases .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic nephropathy ( DN ) remains difficult to treat due to its complex mechanisms . This study explores the ferroptosis mechanism in DN , focusing on the regulation of SAT2 expression by KAT2A-mediated H3K79 succinylation ( H3K79succ ) . METHODS : A DN rat model was created using streptozotocin ( STZ ) and a high-fat diet ( HFD ) . KAT2A expression in rat kidney tissue was analyzed by RT-qPCR , WB , and immunohistochemistry . Renal pathology and function were assessed , and ferroptosis markers ( ROS , GSH , MDA , and iron content ) were measured . A high-glucose-induced HPo cell model was used for in vitro validation . KAT2A knockdown and CUT&Tag/RNA-seq were used to identify potential targets , and the regulation of SAT2 by KAT2A was confirmed through RT-qPCR , WB , and ChIP-qPCR . RESULTS : Elevated KAT2A and H3K79succ expression were observed in DN rat kidney tissues and HPo cells . KAT2A knockdown reversed kidney damage , improved renal function , and suppressed inflammation and ferroptosis . CUT&Tag and RNA-seq identified SAT2 as a KAT2A target , and we confirmed that KAT2A-mediated H3K79succ enhances SAT2 expression , promoting ferroptosis in DN . CONCLUSION : This study uncovers the role of KAT2A in DN , demonstrating its promotion of inflammation and ferroptosis through H3K79succ and SAT2 upregulation , offering insights into DN pathogenesis and potential therapeutic strategies .
Endothelial cell senescence serves as a pivotal driver of vascular dysfunction and cardiovascular pathogenesis . Metformin , a first-line antidiabetic agent , has expanded beyond its traditional role in glycemic control , with accumulating evidence underscoring its anti-aging properties . Endothelial dysfunction constitutes a central pathological basis for the development and progression of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , and the restoration of endothelial function has been demonstrated to significantly mitigate cardiovascular event risks . Preclinical and clinical studies indicate that metformin-whether administered as monotherapy or in combination regimens-has demonstrated significant potential in the treatment of CVD by ameliorating endothelial dysfunction . Emerging evidence indicates metformin attenuates endothelial senescence and enhances cellular function via pleiotropic mechanisms , thereby preserving endothelial function and retarding cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) progression . This review systematically elucidates current understanding of metformin ' s senescence-inhibitory mechanisms in endothelial cells and evaluates its translational potential for CVD intervention , which may provide novel strategies for next-generation CVD pharmacotherapeutics .
BACKGROUND : Hyperkalemia is a critical electrolyte imbalance that can lead to life-threatening arrhythmia and cardiac injury . The potential protective role of metformin on acute hyperkalemia remains unclear . Our study aimed to investigate the mechanisms of metformin against hyperkalemia-induced arrhythmia and cardiac injury . METHODS : We induced hyperkalemia-induced arrhythmia model in vivo using intragastric KCl overload in mice , and followed by low- or high-dose metformin or insulin to evaluate cardiac electrocardiography ( ECG ) , cardiac injury , and the regulation of key potassium channels . Additionally , we cultured HL-1 cells with different potassium concentration , and followed by insulin or metformin to assess the cell viability , apoptosis , regulation of key potassium channels and intracellular and extracellular calcium ( Ca ( 2+ ) ) dynamics . KEY FINDINGS : Our study demonstrates that both metformin and insulin have protective effects against hyperkalemia-induced arrhythmia . Notably , metformin significantly reversed the expression of Kv2 and SK2 channels , which are critical for maintaining normal cardiac electrical activity . Furthermore , metformin improved cardiomyocyte viability and reduced apoptosis in hyperkalemic conditions . Our findings also reveal that metformin increased serum Ca ( 2+ ) levels and reduced intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) levels , which is associated with the upregulation of parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) . These results suggest that metformin exerts its protective effects through distinct mechanisms compared to insulin . SIGNIFICANCE : These findings have important implications for the management of hyperkalemia , particularly in patients with underlying insulin resistance or those who cannot tolerate insulin therapy . By demonstrating the protective effects of metformin , our study opens new avenues for therapeutic intervention and further research into the role of metformin in cardiac protection .
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE : Millettia speciosa Champ . Leguminosae ( MSC ) , a medicinal-edible plant in southern China , according to the records in Lingnan caiyaolu , MSC is known for its functions of " tonifying deficiency and consolidating essence . " It is also empirically used to enhance male reproductive health . However , the protective mechanisms of MSC on the testes require further investigation . AIM OF THE STUDY : This study aims to investigate the protective effect of MSC extract against cyclophosphamide ( CP ) -induced testicular damage . METHODS : The components of MSC were conducted using ultra-performance liquid chromatography combined with UPLC-ESI-MS/MS . Testicular dysfunction was induced in ICR mice by intraperitoneal injection of CP ( 50 mg/kg , once a day for one week ) , and MSC ( 400 or 800 mg/kg ) was administered orally daily for four weeks to evaluate its effectiveness in alleviating CP-induced testicular dysfunction . Sperm quality was assessed by computer-assisted semen analysis ( CASA ) , hematoxylin-eosin ( H&E ) staining , immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) immunofluorescence ( IF ) and in situ hybridization ( ISH ) were conducted to analyze the recovery to testicular function . Quantitative analysis of ROS indicators and hormones was performed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) . The expressions of related genes were evaluated by Quantitative real-time PCR ( RT-qPCR ) . RESULTS : MSC alleviated CP-induced reductions in body weight , testicular index , and epididymal index . It enhanced antioxidant enzyme activity such as superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) and glutathione peroxidase ( GSH-Px ) , and upregulated related genes ( Sod1 , Sod2 , Sod3 , and Cat ) . MSC also improved sperm quality , restored testosterone ( T ) levels by upregulating genes involved in T synthesis ( Cyp17a1 , Cyp11a1 , and Star ) , and reinforced the blood-testis barrier ( BTB ) through increased expression of Zonula occludens-1 , Connexin43 , and N-Cadherin . Notably , MSC reinitiated the stalled meiotic process , as evidenced by restored expression of Stra8 , and the reappearance of spermatogenic cells in the seminiferous tubules and their correct localization . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrates the anti-oxidative stress capability of MSC and highlights its multifaceted protective mechanisms against CP-induced testicular damage , suggesting its potential as a phytotherapeutic treatment for testicular damage .
Molnupiravir is a medication used to treat COVID-19 by introducing errors into the SARS-CoV-2 virus ' s genetic code , thereby preventing its replication . Previous studies , both in vitro and in vivo , have yielded conflicting results regarding its mutagenic potential . While most genotoxicity and mutagenicity tests for molnupiravir and its active form , beta-d-N4-hydroxycytidine ( NHC ) , were negative , a few in vitro tests showed positive results . Consequently , further investigation is necessary to evaluate various mutagenic endpoints of molnupiravir . In this study , acute toxicity was assessed by measuring the locomotive activity of Caenorhabditis elegans using a WMicroTracker to determine an appropriate dose range for the germline mutagenicity study . The C . elegans worms were treated with different concentrations of molnupiravir and NHC , along with vehicle controls and ethyl methanesulfonate ( EMS ) as a positive control . To assess germline mutagenicity , P0 worms from a single clone were exposed to selected concentrations of molnupiravir and NHC , as well as vehicle and positive controls , for 4h . Molnupiravir and NHC treatments had no significant effect on the locomotion of C . elegans worms after 1- , 2- , 3- , and 4-h exposures , compared to the vehicle control group . In contrast , EMS significantly reduced the worms ' locomotive activity . Subsequent whole-genome sequencing of the F1 progeny from the treated P0 worms revealed that neither molnupiravir nor NHC increased the germline mutation frequency or altered mutation types , compared to the vehicle control . In contrast , EMS treatment significantly increased mutation frequency over the vehicle control , with a specific EMS mutational signature observed . These results suggest that molnupiravir and NHC are not mutagenic in C . elegans germ cells , aligning with previous findings that demonstrate the low mutagenicity of molnupiravir in clinical settings . Additionally , these findings highlight the utility of C . elegans as an alternative animal model for accelerating toxicity assessments and reducing the use of experimental animals .
Nitrite ingestion has recently emerged as a suicidal method . The mechanisms of toxicity involved in fatal intoxications are associated with the disturbance of physiological processes , mainly through the massive induction of methemoglobinemia . However , there is limited information on the whole spectrum of effects following acute poisonings , requiring additional investigation . An in vitro study of sodium nitrite/nitrate toxicity ( 25-400mM , 4h ) was conducted to assess the direct effect on cell models ( H9c2 , Caco-2 and SH-SY5Y ) . Cell viability assays ( neutral red uptake and MTT reduction ) were performed to obtain full concentration-toxicity curves . In vitro digestion assays were also conducted to study potential transformations of nitrite ( 6g ) into other chemical species within the gastrointestinal tract . Additionally , the blood levels of sodium nitrite/nitrate ( 1-500mM , 20min ) associated with the increase of methemoglobin in human blood samples were evaluated using a spectrophotometric technique . Cell viability assays showed no significant toxicity of sodium nitrite or nitrate for any of the tested cell lines at biologically relevant concentrations , even those found in intoxication cases . Digestion simulation tests revealed that nitrite is likely to convert into other nitrogen species , especially in the gastric environment . In vitro exposure of blood to sodium nitrite resulted in the production of methemoglobin , whereas nitrate did not exhibit the same effect . The data suggest that methemoglobinemia is the primary mechanism of toxicity in nitrite poisonings . Nevertheless , further research is needed to better understand the progression of these episodes , which could help refine treatment strategies .
Models of Ab-antigen complexes can be used to understand interaction mechanisms and for improving affinity . This study evaluates the use of the protein structure prediction algorithm AlphaFold ( AF ) for exploration of interactions between peptide epitope tags and the smallest functional antibody fragments , nanobodies ( Nbs ) . Although past studies of AF for modeling antibody-target ( antigen ) interactions suggested modest algorithm performance , those were primarily focused on Ab-protein interactions , while the performance and utility of AF for Nb-peptide interactions , which are generally less complex due to smaller antigens , smaller binding domains , and fewer chains , is less clear . In this study we evaluated the performance of AF for predicting the structures of Nbs bound to experimentally validated , linear , short peptide epitopes ( Nb-tag pairs ) . We expanded the pool of experimental data available for comparison through crystallization and structural determination of a previously reported Nb-tag complex ( Nb ) . Models of Nb-tag pair structures generated from AF were variable with respect to consistency with experimental data , with good performance in just over half ( 4 out of 6 ) of cases . Even among Nb-tag pairs successfully modeled in isolation , efforts to translate modeling to more complex contexts failed , suggesting an underappreciated role of the size and complexity of inputs in AF modeling success . Finally , the model of a Nb-tag pair with minimal previous characterization was used to guide the design of a peptide-electrophile conjugate that undergoes covalent crosslinking with Nb upon binding . These findings highlight the utility of minimized antibody and antigen structures to maximize insights from AF modeling .
Profilin 1 ( PFN1 ) is a key cytoskeletal protein that regulates actin dynamics by incorporating monomeric actin into linear filaments . PFN1 deletion or mutations have been linked to numerous neurodegenerative diseases , including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) . However , the contribution of PFN1 to neurodegenerative pathologies is poorly understood . Recent studies have implicated the role of aberrant cellular membrane-less organelles ( MLOs ) in neurodegenerative pathogenesis . Here , we demonstrate that PFN1 is involved in the assembly of MLOs , including Cajal bodies and Stress granules . Specifically , depletion of PFN1 leads to abnormal Cajal body accumulation and accelerated maturation into a gel-like state , consequently dysregulating snRNP biogenesis and impairing pre-mRNA splicing efficiency in both neuronal and non-neuronal cells . Similarly , we show that PFN1 knockdown accelerates the assembly of Stress granules in stressed cells . Furthermore , we demonstrate that the ALS-linked PFN1-C71G mutant exhibits a loss of function in the context of MLO biogenesis . We further reveal that the PFN1 deficiency-induced Cajal body dysregulation , but not Stress granule assembly , is caused by cellular actin filament depolymerization . Importantly , the actin filament agonist CN04 rescues Cajal body properties in PFN1-depleted cells . Taken together , our findings shed light on the role of PFN1 in MLO biogenesis and suggest its involvement in neurodegenerative pathogenesis .
Luminal type breast cancer ( BrCa ) cells invade into the surrounding tissues as collective strands , making them more metastatic than single cells . We have previously reported that the leading subpopulation of collective cells expressed high levels of CD44 , which was associated with enhanced migratory and invasive potential of BrCa . It is crucial to elucidate how CD44 becomes enriched in leader cells and contributes to collective migration . In this study , we aimed to uncover the mechanisms responsible for CD44 upregulation in this context . First , we demonstrated that CD44 could facilitate dynamic lamellipodia formation by interacting with cytoskeletal proteins through its cytoplasmic domain . Then , we identified that a transcriptional regulator , Sin3a , was remarkably upregulated at the front edge of collectively migrating cells , exhibiting a correlation with enhanced CD44 expression . Notably , the knockdown of Sin3a effectively suppressed CD44 enrichment and lamellipodia outgrowth in leader cells , resulting in a significantly decreased cohesive movement of BrCa cells in vitro and in vivo . Our findings suggested that Sin3a was a novel regulator in CD44-facilitated lamellipodia formation and subsequent collective migration . This study elucidated the molecular mechanism underlying CD44 upregulation during collective migration of luminal type BrCa cells , providing potential therapeutic targets to prevent cancer metastasis .
Heat shock protein 90 ( Hsp90 ) is a vital molecular chaperone that is essential for activating a diverse array of regulatory proteins through an ATP-dependent clamping cycle . The Hsp90 clamping cycle is driven by large-amplitude conformational changes within the N-terminal ATPase domain , including the release of an autoinhibitory N-terminal beta-strap followed by a less well-characterized ATP gate rearrangement involving N-terminal helix Here , we employed a combination of F nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) spectroscopy , molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations , and ATPase assays to examine the effects of targeted beta-strap and helix 1 mutations . Our findings reveal that targeted disruption of helix 1 packing against the ATPase domain accelerates clamp closure , symmetrically enhancing ATP hydrolysis for both subunits of the Hsp90 dimer , whereas activation by the Aha1 cochaperone is disrupted . Decreasing the energy barrier associated with helix 1 release is a key step in modulating the energy landscape that governs the dynamics of the Hsp90 clamping cycle .
The small GTPases Arf , Ras , and Rho cycle between their active GTP-bound and inactive GDP-bound forms . Their effector proteins or inorganic redox agents regulate this cycle , which in turn regulates various important cell signals . Unlike effector protein-based regulation , redox-mediated regulation that occurs through the redox response of small GTPases to a redox agent is feasible only when the small GTPases are redox sensitive . The known redox-sensitive small GTPases including Ras and Rho have the reactive Cys in their unique redox motif . This study is the first to show the redox-response feature of Arf1 linked to a novel redox-sensitive Cys in the Arf-specific redox motif and its importance for cell functions . The Arf1 redox motif is currently the simplest form as it lacks the additional redox components found in Ras and Rho . The study also identifies critical radical intermediates implicated in the Arf1 redox response , along with the production of chemically modified nucleotides such as a GDP adduct . These results suggest the most elementary radical action-based mechanism for the Arf1 redox response . Although the presence of the radical intermediates was not reported , they were also suggested for the Ras and Rho redox response . Thus , the previously unknown mechanistic aspects of the Ras and Rho redox response are clarified by comparing them with those of Arf
Topical application of natural phenolic compound rosmarinic acid ( ROSA ) and its analogues is known to exert pharmacological effects , including anti-inflammation , anti-allergy , antioxidant properties . However , the mechanism of action of the ROSA remains largely unknown . Here , we describe a novel role of natural phenolic rosmarinic acid and its analogues in the selective inhibition of warmth-sensitive Ca ( 2+ ) -permeable cutaneous TRPV3 channel for the alleviation of skin lesions through the downregulation of NF-kappaB pathway . ROSA and its analogues , CADA ( ( E ) -3- ( 3 , 4-dihydroxyphenyl ) -N- ( 2- ( 3 , 4-dihydroxyphenyl ) ethyl ) -2- propenamide ) and methyl rosmarinate ( MROSA ) , inhibit macroscopic TRPV3 currents in both concentration-dependent and structure-dependent manners with IC50 values ranging from 10 to 160 muM . ROSA also directly inhibits single TRPV3 channels by reducing the channel open probability without altering its unitary conductance . ROSA selectively targets TRPV3 over other subtypes of thermos-TRPs such as TRPV1 , TRPV4 , TRPA1 and TRPM8 channels . Site-directed mutagenesis combined with molecular docking reveals two residues T636 and T665 critical for ROSA-mediated inhibition of TRPV Furthermore , network pharmacology identified downstream p-P65 , TNF-alpha and IL-6 proteins in NF-kappaB signaling pathway as critically involved in ROSA-mediated reduction of cell death and alleviation of skin lesions . Altogether , our findings demonstrate that ROSA exerts its anti-inflammatory effects by selectively inhibiting TRPV3 channel and suppressing the NF-kappaB signaling pathway .
The Hippo signaling pathway is crucial in pathological functions such as tumors . Yes-associated protein ( YAP ) , a well-known downstream effector of the Hippo pathway , has been intensively studied ; emerging evidence suggests that multiple cell membrane receptors can regulate the Hippo pathway . However , the mechanistic roles of these upstream pathways remain largely unknown . Here , we identified the beta-galactoside alpha2 , 6-sialyltransferase 1 ( ST6GAL1 ) catalyzed alpha2 , 6-sialylation as a pivotal upstream modulator of Hippo pathway by a glycosyltransferases ( GTs ) overexpression sub-library screening . Depletion of ST6GAL1 results in increased phosphorylation of LATS1 and YAP , which induces YAP ' s nuclear localization , transcriptional activity , and multiple biological functions in breast cancer cells , including cell adhesion , spreading , growth , migration , and metastasis . These phenotypes were majorly due to the altered signal transduction of cell surface receptors , as deletion of ST6GAL1 exhibited attenuated GPCR , EGFR , and Integrins response and suppression of dephosphorylation of YAP . Mechanistically , these representative membrane receptors are alpha2 , 6-sialylated proteins , and their alpha2 , 6-sialylation could be inhibited by beta-galactoside alpha2 , 3-sialyltransferase 4 ( ST3GAL4 ) via substrate competition . In addition , the alpha2 , 6-sialylation is essential for Integrin beta1-EGFR/LPAR4 complex formation . Altogether , our findings demonstrate ST6GAL1 is an upstream negative regulator of the Hippo pathway in breast cancer cells , providing a new insight into the regulation between N-glycosylation and Hippo signaling .
Matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( MMP-9 ) is a critical enzyme involved in extracellular matrix degradation and is strongly implicated in many diseases , including triple-negative breast cancer and other poor prognosis cancers . Selective inhibition of MMP-9 is therefore a promising therapeutic strategy . However , development of MMP inhibitors has been hindered by challenges in achieving specificity , with past efforts failing in clinical trials due to off-target effects and associated toxicity . Here , we present a novel approach to overcoming these challenges by engineering tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 ( TIMP-1 ) , a natural broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor , to achieve enhanced specificity and affinity for MMP- We demonstrate that TIMP-1 can be strategically engineered to selectively inhibit MMP-9 through modulating interactions not only with the catalytic domain but also with the unique fibronectin ( FN ) domains . By leveraging yeast surface display with strategic library design , we identified TIMP-1 variants that exploit multiple surface epitopes to optimize interactions with both the catalytic and FN domains of MMP- Molecular dynamics simulations further suggest how modifications in the N-terminal and C-terminal domains of TIMP-1 drive these selective interactions . The top engineered TIMP-1 variant exhibited significantly improved selectivity for MMP-9 in a manner dependent upon novel interactions with the FN domains , as validated through inhibition kinetics . This variant also demonstrated potent inhibition of MMP-9-driven triple-negative breast cancer cell invasiveness , underscoring the therapeutic potential of this approach . Our study highlights the versatility of TIMP-1 as a scaffold that can be optimized for highly selective MMP inhibition , providing new avenues for the development of targeted therapies .
Pancreatic beta-cells play a critical role in glucose homeostasis by secreting insulin . Chronic oxidative stress causes beta-cell dysfunction , including beta-cell loss ; however , the underlying mechanisms remain unclear . Here , we demonstrate the critical role of the regulated in development and DNA damage response 2 ( REDD2/DDiT4L/Rtp801L ) in beta-cell dysfunction . In INS-1 beta-cells , Redd2 was induced by high glucose/palmitate or streptozotocin ( STZ ) exposure . Knockdown of Redd2 attenuated STZ-induced loss of cell viability , while REDD2 overexpression reduced cell viability and p70S6K phosphorylation , suggesting the involvement of suppression of mTORC1 activation . STZ also activated the transcription factors nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) and p53 , and overexpression of these transcription factors synergistically induced Redd2 expression . Reporter assays using the Redd2 promoter ( -2328/-1 ) and chromatin immunoprecipitation identified the functional binding sites for Nrf2 ( EpRE2 , -349/-340 ) and p53 ( p53RE1 , -90/-81 ) on the Redd2 promoter . Purified recombinant p53 and Nrf2 bound directly . There were no noticeable changes in male global Redd2-knockout mice ( C57BL/6J background ) , except for inguinal adipose tissue decrease when the mice were fed a standard diet . In contrast , when the mice were fed a high-fat diet ( HFD ) , Redd2-knockout mice exhibited improved glucose tolerance relative to littermate controls . Redd2-knockout in HFD-fed mice increased beta-cell mass due to reduced beta-cell apoptosis and elevated plasma insulin concentrations , whereas insulin sensitivity remained unaffected . In both STZ-induced male and female and HFD-fed male models , beta-cell specific Redd2-knockout improved glucose tolerance without affecting insulin sensitivity . Our results identify REDD2 as a novel regulator of beta-cell dysfunction under oxidative stress .
Retinal pigment epithelium ( RPE ) cells , located between the photoreceptors and choroid , play a crucial role in maintaining retinal health and function . They act as immunosuppressive barriers , preventing immune cell infiltration from the choroid . Retinal inflammation contributes to the development of various ocular diseases . The aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AHR ) is a well-established ligand-dependent transcription factor that mediates potent anti-inflammatory signals following ligand binding . AHR expression is notably reduced under several conditions that negatively affect the retina . We hypothesized that AHR protein loss may impairs RPE cell function , shifting them toward a pro-inflammatory phenotype . In this study , we investigated the pro-inflammatory pathways activated by AHR knockout ( AHR-KO ) and examined associated retinal phenotypic changes in AHR-KO mice . Our findings suggest that AHR deficiency may enhance the activity of alphavbeta3-integrin , extracellular signal-regulated kinases ( ERK1/2 ) , and p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) , leading to an upregulation of intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( ICAM1 ) and promoting monocyte adhesion in vitro . Introducing an AHR-green fluorescent protein into AHR-KO RPE cells or pre-treating the cells with pharmacological inhibitors targeting alphavbeta3 ( cycloRGDfk ) , focal adhesion kinase ( PF573228 ) , phospholipase C ( U73122 ) , ERK1/2 ( U0126 ) , and NF-kappaB ( Bay11-7082 ) prevented ICAM1 induction in AHR-KO RPE cells . These results suggest that the pro-inflammatory pathway is driven by AHR deficiency . In AHR-KO mice , retinal tissues showed ICAM1 accumulation , microglial activation , and migration , indicating chronic retinal inflammation due to AHR deficiency . These mice also displayed early-onset electroretinogram degeneration . Collectively , our data support the protective role of AHR in maintaining RPE cell physiology and retinal health .
Traumatic optic neuropathy ( TON ) is a prevalent form of optic neuropathy , which is a significant cause of irreversible blindness . To date , effective therapeutic interventions for TON are lacking , highlighting the urgent need for the development of new therapeutic drugs . In this study , a compound library comprising 480 Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) -approved drugs was screened to identify potentially effective therapeutic drugs for TON . We reported that dimercaprol ( DMP ) , an FDA-approved drug , can reduce L-Glutamic acid ( Glu ) and hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) -induced injury in a retinal cell line ( R28 cell ) . Our findings further demonstrated that intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and acrolein , a lipid peroxide , are major contributors to apoptosis-induced cell death in vitro . A series of functional assays revealed that DMP can inhibit apoptosis-induced by Glu via scavenging of intracellular ROS and acrolein in R28 cells and primary cortical neurones . Notably , DMP inhibited retinal ganglion cell complex ( GCC ) thinning and retinal ganglion cell ( RGC ) loss resulting from optic nerve crush ( ONC ) injury in vivo . Moreover , DMP effectively eliminated ONC-induced acrolein in the retina and inhibited RGC apoptosis in vivo . In conclusion , intracellular ROS and acrolein play significant roles in RGC loss in TON , and DMP effectively inhibits RGC apoptosis-induced by the oxidative stress pathway in vitro and in vivo . Therefore , DMP has emerged as a potential new therapeutic drug against TON .
Cervical cancer ( CC ) is the second most common cancer among women in India and the fourth worldwide . While major genes and pathways have been studied , further research is needed to identify newer candidates for targeted therapy in metastatic disease . This study used a graph-theory-based network analysis to identify important interacting proteins ( IIPs ) with maximum connectivity , high centrality scores , and significant global and local network perturbation scores . Among the identified IIPs , the Androgen receptor ( AR ) emerged as one of the crucial yet understudied regulator in cervical cancer . Patient samples , ex vivo , and in vitro experiments showed significant downregulation of AR in cervical cancer . Ligand-dependent overexpression of AR reduced cancer cell migration while failed to induce apoptosis in CC cell lines . Downregulation of mesenchymal markers and restoration of epithelial markers upon exogenous expression of AR suggested its potential in reversing invasive properties of cervical cancer cells . AR overexpression followed by activation upregulated its downstream target PTEN and downregulated pPI3K levels , which in turn restored GSK3beta activity by interfering with AKT phosphorylation , probably leading to degradation of mesenchymal markers in cervical cancer cells . Further studies showed that AR reduced cell motility by hindering focal adhesion formation and Actin filament assembly . An increased G-Actin ratio suggested AR disrupted cytoskeletal dynamics through altering the RhoA/ROCK1/LIMK1/CFL1 pathway eventually impeding cervical cancer cell spread .
Obesity is a significant health concern , significantly contributing to increased morbidity and mortality by disrupting multiple physiological systems . It is strongly associated with metabolic dysfunctions , including impaired glycemic homeostasis , compromised intestinal barrier integrity , and gut microbiota imbalances , all exacerbating the risk of chronic diseases . The hydroalcoholic extract of acai seeds ( ASE ) , rich in phenolic compounds , has demonstrated beneficial effects on obesity and hyperglycemia ; however , its impacts on gut health and gut-hypothalamus communication remain unclear . This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of ASE in intestinal and hypothalamic alterations associated with obesity and compare it with Metformin . Male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat or standard diet for 14 weeks . The ASE ( 300mg/Kg/day ) and Metformin ( 300mg/Kg/day ) treatments started in the tenth week until the fourteenth week , totaling four weeks of treatment . Our data show that the treatment with ASE and Metformin reduced body weight , ameliorated lipid profile , hyperglycemia , and plasma hyperleptinemia , and decreased the oxidative damage in the gut by reducing immunostaining of 8-isoprostane and NOX-4 expression , and improved the intestinal parameters and hypothalamic gene expression . Obesity-induced dysbiosis in the HF group was marked by reduced Proteobacteria and elevated LPS plasma levels , which were improved by treatments with ASE and Metformin . These findings suggest that ASE and Metformin are promising strategies to counteract the adverse effects of obesity on intestinal health and gut-hypothalamus communication , though they act through distinct mechanisms . Therefore , we can suggest that ASE is a promising natural product for treating the intestinal alterations associated with obesity .
Dehydroepiandrosterone ( DHEA ) , a precursor of sex hormones , has been implicated in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) or metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) , with studies suggesting a strong correlation between DHEA levels and disease severity . In this study , we demonstrated that DHEA alleviated lipotoxicity-induced hepatic damage by promoting autophagy . Our findings demonstrate that DHEA-induced autophagy is mediated by estrogen receptor alpha ( ER-alpha ) and androgen receptor ( AR ) activation and protects hepatic cells against palmitate-induced apoptosis , steatosis , and inflammasome activation . DHEA treatment in a murine NASH model induced significant autophagy in the liver , further supporting the hepatoprotective role of DHEA . Collectively , our results identified DHEA as a pro-autophagic hormone with therapeutic potential for the treatment of lipotoxicity in NASH .
Interactions between the liver and pancreas are key features of the carbohydrate and lipid homeostasis in healthy and pathological patients . To investigate the crosstalk between the two organs , we have developed an organ-on-chip coculture model derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells . The presence of pancreatic-derived tissue in the culture environment contributed to increase the CYP3A4 activity , the glycogen storage , and the expression of genes related to lipids , bile acids and sterol metabolism in the liver derived tissue . Concomitantly , the presence of liver cells led to increase the C-peptide secretion in pancreas . The coculture with liver modulated the pancreatic differentiation by increasing the activity of important transcription factors ( REST , MAFB , PBX1 ) and by downregulating several hormone encoding genes ( INS , GCG , TTR ) . The liver also stimulated the expression of genes involved in the response to inflammation in pancreas ( via TGFbeta/SMAD pathway ) . In parallel we observed a pancreatic cell reorganization coupled with the activation of the cell proliferation related transcription factor ( SCRT1 ) and the upregulation of cellular remodeling genes ( FLNA , FLNB , FN1 , COL4A5 ) . Finally , the pancreatic lipid genes were also upregulated in presence of the liver tissue . Overall , our results reflect a complex synergy between both tissues . We believe that those results are an encouraging step toward the development of relevant human model using advanced organ on chip technology and stem cells sources .
Zipper-interacting protein kinase ( ZIPK ) belongs to the death-associated protein kinase ( DAPK ) family and is a serine/threonine kinase . ZIPK is ubiquitously expressed in different types of tissues and cells . ZIPK is involved in many cellular functions , including cell death , smooth muscle contraction , transcriptional regulation , inflammatory signaling and the regulation of angiogenesis . The dysregulation of ZIPK has been shown to be involved in multiple diseases , including cancer , neurological diseases such as stroke , and cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension . The molecular mechanisms by which ZIPK inhibits the development of cancer have been well studied , but less is known about how ZIPK dysregulation is involved in vascular and neurological diseases . In this review , we summarize the current knowledge about the cellular processes in which ZIPK is involved and the pathological relevance of ZIPK dysregulation in diseases , with a focus on the role of ZIPK in vascular and neuronal functions . The molecular mechanisms by which ZIPK dysregulation contributes to cancer and vascular and neuronal diseases are discussed . We also review recent advances in the development of ZIPK modulators and their potential in treating vascular damage and neurological disorders . Multiple findings support that ZIPK has important functions in regulating vascular homeostasis and serves as a novel therapeutic target for alleviating neurological diseases .
Gut microbes play an immense role in digesting ingested food , providing nutrients to the host , and producing several bioactive metabolites that not only help maintain health but can also elicit disease during dysbiotic conditions . The bioactive compounds derived from gut microbiota metabolites include trimethylamine-N-oxide ( TMAO ) , uremic toxins , short chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , phytoestrogens , anthocyanins , bile acids , lipopolysaccharide - to name a few . Once these compounds enter the host cells , tissues , and organs they can cause diseases such as epigenetic , metabolic , neurodegenerative , psychiatric , cardiovascular , hypertension , respiratory , gastrointestinal , kidney , bone , cancer , and others . Regulating healthy gut microbiota thus provides a potential option for the prevention , reversal , or even treatment of these diseases . Towards this end , various interventional strategies are postulated in this field of emerged and rapidly expanding health research arena that includes fecal microbiota transplantation , prebiotics , and probiotics , and to introduce the concept that correcting gut dysbiosis can ameliorate disease symptoms , thus offering a new approach towards dysbiosis-related disease mitigation and treatment . In the special issue of Pharmacological Research titled " Gut Microbiota and Well-Being , " several outstanding research findings and review articles are published , covering a broad spectrum of topics related to the influence of gut microbiota on health and disease . This editorial summarizes each of these contributions , prioritizing research findings before discussing the review articles . The summaries are restructured abstracts of relevant articles focusing on major findings or thematic topics .
This study attempted to detect the skin sensitization hazards of medical device materials by combining multiple in vitro alternative testing methods . Nine materials were extracted using organic solvents , and the re-dissolved solutions were evaluated using the Amino acid Derivative Reactivity Assay ( ADRA ) , Epidermal Sensitization Assay ( EpiSensA ) , and human Cell Line Activation test ( h-CLAT ) . The combined results of each test were compared with those of the Guinea Pig Maximization Test ( GPMT ) results . The findings of ADRA and h-CLAT were consistent with the GPMT results for seven of the nine materials , and EpiSensA was consistent with the GPMT results for eight of the nine materials . The findings of the " 2 out of 3 " and Sequential Testing Strategy ( STS ) approaches were compared with the GPMT results . The GMPT results for all nine materials were correctly predicted when the " 2 out of 3 " approach was used . When the STS was used , it correctly predicted the GMPT results for eight of the nine materials . Therefore , integrating the ADRA , EpiSensA , and h-CLAT may provide an effective testing method for detecting skin sensitization hazards of organic solvent extracts from medical device materials .
Male germline development is crucial for the proper establishment of spermatogonial stem cell pool and life-long production of spermatozoa , but the full-term developmental profiling of human male germline is not fully understood . Here , by integrating 92 , 488 human testicular cells spanning from six-week-old embryo to old men , we constructed a comprehensive human male germ cell atlas . Further analysis found that the precursor of undifferentiated spermatogonia underwent regulatory network reconfiguration starting from week 7 post-fertilization , accompanied by WNT6-FZD3/LRP6-JUN/MYC signaling axis . And JUN and MYC were revealed to be candidate core transcription factors that might inhibit spermatogonia differentiation . In addition , the activation of ANGPTL signaling played a role in the maintenance of human spermatogonial stem cell . Finally , by interrogating the scRNA-seq datasets from several types of idiopathic non-obstructive azoospermia ( iNOA ) patients , we identified several iNOA-dysregulated genes such as CAPN3 , FTMT , IZUMO2 and LACE1 , which were significantly down-regulated in round spermatids of iNOA patients . Collectively , our work constructed a comprehensive human male germ cell development atlas , revealing the factors that might regulate male germline development and providing iNOA-dysregulated genes for future clinical diagnosis .
This study aimed to delineate the protective role of fish oil against alcoholic liver disease ( ALD ) , identify the principal active component between eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA , C20 : 5 n-3 ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA , C22 : 6 n-3 ) , and elucidate the molecular mechanisms . C57BL/6J mice were randomly assigned to receive either an alcohol-fed ( AF ) or pair-fed control ( PF ) diet , enriched with fish oil ( FO ) or corn oil ( CO ) for four weeks . Additionally , a series of in vitro experiments were performed using AML-12 cells to further investigate potential mechanisms . The results showed that plasma levels of alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) were significantly lower in the AF-FO group compared to the AF-CO group , indicating that fish oil alleviated alcohol-induced liver damage . Hepatic antioxidant markers , including glutathione ( GSH ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and catalase ( CAT ) were also higher in the AF-FO group than in the AF-CO group . Transcriptomic analysis revealed FO supplementation significantly affected genes involved in oxidoreductase activity and lipid metabolism pathways , with Retsat being the most up-regulated gene . The in vitro experiments indicated that DHA , but not EPA , markedly increased Retsat expression , cell viability , and the expression of genes related to oxidoreductase activity and lipid metabolism , compared to linoleic acid ( LA , C18 : 2 n-6 ) . Notably , knocking down Retsat abolished the protective effects of DHA . In conclusion , dietary fish oil mitigated chronic alcohol-induced liver injury primarily through DHA by upregulating Retsat and downstream genes associated with oxidoreductase function and lipid metabolism .
In regenerative medicine , addressing the complex challenge of bone tissue regeneration demands innovative strategies . Exosomes , nanoscale vesicles rich in bioactive molecules , have shown great promise in tissue repair . This study focuses on exosomes derived from mineralized osteoblasts ( MOBs ) , which play a pivotal role in bone formation . We investigated the therapeutic potential of exosomes isolated from osteoblasts cultured in osteogenic medium for 21 days , delivered via 3D-printed gyroid scaffolds composed of hydroxyapatite ( HA ) and tricalcium phosphate ( TCP ) . The exosomes were characterized through nanoparticle tracking analysis to determine size , morphology , and concentration , while proteomics revealed their cargo contents . In vitro , rabbit bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells ( rBMSCs ) were cultured as monolayers and within ceramic scaffolds , where MOB-derived exosomes were shown to promote osteogenic differentiation . In vivo , their osteoconductive and bone augmentation capabilities were evaluated in two rabbit calvarial models , while the osteoinductive potential was further tested in a heterotopic mouse model . Neo-bone formation was assessed using microCT and histological analysis . Our findings demonstrated that MOB-derived exosomes upregulated bone-related gene expression and promoted mineralization in rBMSCs , even in the absence of osteogenic medium . Proteomics confirmed the presence of bone-associated proteins in these exosomes . In rabbit models , however , exosomes did not significantly enhance bone formation . In contrast , in the heterotopic mouse model , exosomes functionalized onto ceramic scaffolds exhibited strong osteoinductive activity . This study highlights the potential of MOB-derived exosomes to enhance 3D-printed ceramic scaffolds for bone regeneration , offering a promising avenue for bone healing without the need for additional growth factors or stem cells . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : The here presented report of our project not only advances our understanding of the role of exosome-functionalized scaffolds in bone regeneration but also proposes a promising alternative to traditional growth factor- or cell-based approaches . We are confident that this study represents a novel and impactful contribution to the field .
Successful completion of the initial inflammatory phase is critical for the establishment of a regenerative environment conducive to long-term fracture healing . Mechanical signals are among the most potent regulators of bone repair , yet whether local mechanics can modulate inflammation and associated immune response remains poorly understood . In this study , we develop a 3D in vitro model comprising of a purpose-built bioreactor that can replicate distinct loading conditions experienced during ambulation of fixated or unfixed large bone defects , and a haematoma mimetic fibrin hydrogel mirroring the local tissue composition , mechanical properties , and immune environment . Harnessing this system , we demonstrated that macrophages , key regulators of the early immune response , are mechanoresponsive and sensitive to the loading magnitude of local compressive forces . Specifically , moderate loading ( 5% strain ) as experienced within semi-rigid fixation , was capable of driving a hybrid phenotype with a higher regenerative secretome in M0 macrophages , while inhibiting inflammation in pro-inflammatory M1-like macrophages which supported capillary-size vascular formation . Conversely , higher loading ( 35% strain ) , representative of mechanically unstable defects , was shown to elicit a poor regenerative immune response detrimental to vascular growth and long-term mineralisation . Collectively , our findings highlight mechanical cues as potent stimuli to modulate early immune responses , thus informing the development of novel materials and mechanotherapies to enhance bone repair . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : Mechano-immunology is an emerging field that aims at interrogating how mechanical cues shape immune cell phenotype and function . This study presents for the first time , the design and validation of a purpose-built 3D in vitro platform of a dynamically loaded bone fracture haematoma . Utilising this model , we demonstrate that macrophages are mechanoresponsive and sensitive to compressive loading magnitude , with moderate loading ( 5% strain ) producing a hybrid regenerative macrophage phenotype and secretome , while excessive loading ( 35% strain ) produced a secretome detrimental to angiogenesis and osteogenesis . Moreover , moderate strain can also dampen inflammation in a model of an inflamed compromised fracture . This knowledge may inform the development of novel mechano-immunomodulatory materials and therapeutics that target the early inflammation phase for bone repair .
The circadian clock enables organisms to predict daily environmental changes and synchronize their physiology and behaviour accordingly . Macrophages , key sensor cells in the innate immune system , exhibit cell-autonomous circadian rhythmicity . This circadian rhythmic behaviour is synchronised to the central clock in the hypothalamus as a result of neural , and hormonal signals . Macrophage rhythms and responses involve sensing temporal cues , integrating information from tissue-specific environments , and initiating context-appropriate , time-gated responses . On a broader scale , monocytes and macrophages communicate and synchronize with other immune cells , migrate throughout the body , and infiltrate tissues , collectively contributing to circadian regulation in both health and disease . While the field of macrophage circadian biology is rapidly advancing , it is equally important to reflect on its historical development , which has been shaped by over two centuries of accumulating knowledge and technological progress . This review traces key milestones in macrophage and circadian research , examining how recent discoveries have refined our understanding of early foundational questions and setting the stage for future inquiries . Notably , many intriguing questions remain unresolved , including the circadian regulation of macrophage function under steady-state conditions , the tissue-specific heterogeneity of macrophage circadian rhythms , and the role of macrophage circadian clocks in disease pathogenesis and their potential clinical implications .
Mycoplasmas are small , slow-growing bacteria that do not produce visible turbidity in broth . Monitoring the growth of these fastidious organisms requires the manual sampling of cultures over several days , followed by cumbersome enumeration methods with long incubation periods or complex assays unable to differentiate live and dead cells . Here , a simple , automated assay was developed to measure Mycoplasma growth by quantifying the reduction of resazurin , a non-toxic dye , into a fluorescent product by live organisms . Mycoplasma species were cultivated in broth containing 5 mg/L resazurin . Fluorescence ( 520 nm excitation , 555 nm emission ) was recorded every 5 min for 24 h using a qPCR thermocycler set at 37 degrees C , to capture the logarithmic and plateau phases . Growth curves and generation times obtained from fluorescence readings were highly similar to those calculated from the Most Probable Number ( MPN ) titres analysis of broth cultures sampled every 2 h over the same timeframe . Additionally , the resazurin assay could rapidly differentiate temperature-sensitive mutants from wild-type strains , by comparing their maximal growth rates in permissive ( 33 degrees C ) and non-permissive ( 39 degrees C ) conditions . While the MPN titration protocol required tedious liquid handling and weeks-long incubation to produce interpretable data , the resazurin assay delivered results in less than 24 h . Unlike the MPN method , which relies on pH changes , the resazurin assay could be used with non-acidifying Mycoplasmas . In conclusion , resazurin-based fluorescence monitoring provides a practical and accurate solution to quantify Mycoplasma growth , with strong potential for diagnostic and research applications .
Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is among the foremost causes of cancer-related mortality worldwide ; however , individuals with microsatellite-stable ( MSS ) disease-who constitute most CRC diagnoses-derive limited benefit from existing immunotherapeutic approaches . Here , we outline emerging methods designed to address the inherent resistance of MSS CRC to immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) . Recent findings emphasize how the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment ( TME ) in MSS CRC , marked by diminished immunogenicity and high levels of regulatory T cells and myeloid-derived suppressor cells , restricts effective antitumor immune activity . Combination regimens that merge ICIs with chemotherapy , anti-angiogenic agents , or targeted blockade of pathways such as TGF-beta and VEGF have shown encouraging early outcomes , including enhanced antigen presentation and T-cell penetration . Novel immunomodulatory platforms-such as epigenetic modifiers , oncolytic viruses , and engineered probiotic vaccines-are under assessment to further reprogram the TME and boost therapeutic efficacy . Concurrently , progress in adoptive cell therapies ( for example , chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T cells ) and the development of cancer vaccines targeting tumor-associated and neoantigens promise to extend immune control over MSS CRC . In parallel , improving patient selection through predictive biomarkers-from circulating tumor DNA ( ctDNA ) to gene expression signatures and specific molecular subtypes-could refine individualized treatment strategies . Finally , interventions that alter the gut microbiome , including probiotics and fecal transplantation , serve as complementary tools to strengthen ICI responses . Taken together , these insights and combined treatment strategies lay the foundation for more successful immunotherapeutic interventions in MSS CRC , ultimately aiming to provide sustained clinical benefits to a broader spectrum of patients .
N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine-hydrolyzing phospholipase D ( NAPE-PLD ) hydrolyzes phosphatidylethanolamines ( PE ) where the headgroup nitrogen has been enzymatically modified with acyl chains of four carbons or longer ( N-acyl-PEs or NAPEs ) . The nitrogen headgroup of PE can also be non-enzymatically modified by reactive lipid aldehydes , thus forming N-aldehyde modified-PEs ( NALPEs ) . Some NALPEs such as N-carboxyacyl-PEs are linked to PE via amide bonds similar to NAPEs , but others are linked by imine , pyrrole , or lactam moieties . Whether NAPE-PLD can hydrolyze NALPEs was unknown . We therefore characterized the major NALPE species formed during lipid peroxidation of arachidonic acid and linoleic acid and generated various NALPEs for characterization of their sensitivity to NAPE-PLD hydrolysis by reacting synthesized aldehydes with PE . We found that NAPE-PLD could act on NALPEs of various lengths and linkage types including those derived from PE modified by malondialdehyde ( N-MDA-PE ) , 4-hydroxynonenal ( N-HNE-PE ) , 4-oxo-nonenal ( N-ONE-PE ) , 9-keto-12-oxo-dodecenoic acid ( N-KODA-PE ) , and 15-E-isolevuglandin ( N-IsoLG-PE ) . To assess the relative preference of NAPE-PLD for various NALPEs versus its canonical NAPE substrates , we generated a substrate mixture containing roughly equimolar concentrations of seven NALPEs as well as two NAPEs ( N-palmitoyl-PE and N-linoleoyl-PE ) and measured their rate of hydrolysis . Several NALPE species , including the N-HNE-PE pyrrole species , were hydrolyzed at a similar rate as N-linoleoyl-PE and many of the other NALPEs showed intermediate rates of hydrolysis . These results significantly expand the substrate repertoire of NAPE-PLD and suggest that it may play an important role in clearing products of lipid peroxidation in addition to its established role in the biosynthesis of N-acyl-ethanolamines .
BACKGROUND : Limited studies suggest that vitamin D or omega 3 fatty acids ( n-3 FAs ) supplementation may be beneficial for telomere maintenance , however , evidence from large randomized clinical trial is lacking . We hypothesized that vitamin D or n-3 FAs supplementation reduce leukocyte telomere length ( LTL ) attrition overtime by leveraging the VITamin D and OmegA-3 TriaL ( VITAL ) trial . METHODS : VITAL is a large , randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial with a 2 x 2 factorial design of vitamin D ( 2 , 000 IU/day ) and marine n-3 FAs ( 1 g/day ) supplements for 5 years among a representative sample of 25 , 871 US females >/=55 and males >/=50 years of age . The VITAL Telomere study ( NCT04386577 ) included 1054 participants who were evaluated in person at the Harvard Clinical and Translational Science Center . LTL was determined by the Absolute Human Telomere Length Quantification quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction ( PCR ) method at baseline , Year 2 , and Year The pre-specified primary outcome measures were changes in LTL between baseline , Year 2 and Year Analyses of intervention effect used mixed-effects linear regression models . RESULTS : LTL was measured in a total of 2 , 571 samples from the 1031 participants at baseline , year 2 , and year Compared to placebo , vitamin D supplementation significantly decreased LTL attrition by 14 kilo base pairs ( kb ) ( 01 , 27 ) over 4 years ( p = 039 ) . Overall trend analysis showed that the vitamin D supplementation group had LTLs that were about 035 kb higher per year of follow-up compared to placebo group ( 002 , 07 , p=037 ) . Marine n-3 FAs supplementation had no significant effect on LTL at either year 2 or year CONCLUSION : 4-years of supplementation with 2000 IU/day vitamin D reduced telomere attrition by 140 bp , suggesting that vitamin D daily supplementation with or without n-3 FAs might have a role in counteracting telomere erosion or cell senescence . Clinical Trial Registry numberNCT04386577 , https : //clinicaltrials . gov/study/NCT04386577 ? term=NCT04386577&rank=
INTRODUCTION : Acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) is a hematologic malignancy characterized by aggressive proliferation and chemoresistance , leading to poor patient outcomes . Despite advances in chemotherapy , resistance mechanisms remain inadequately understood , particularly at the cellular and molecular level . OBJECTIVES : This study aims to elucidate the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying drug resistance in AML cells . METHODS : A multi-omics approach was employed , integrating single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , chromatin accessibility profiling ( scATAC-seq ) , DNA methylation analysis , and whole-exome sequencing ( WES ) . AML cell lines ( KG-1a , Kasumi-1 , and HL-60 ) were treated with standard chemotherapeutic agents , including cytarabine ( Ara-C ) , daunorubicin ( DNR ) , azacitidine ( AZA ) , and decitabine ( DEC ) . Additionally , we developed a novel multiplexed scRNA-seq strategy , NAMUL-seq , to enhance the efficiency and scalability of single-cell transcriptomic research . RESULTS : We observed substantial cellular heterogeneity and dynamic transcriptomic trajectories in AML cells subjected to various treatments , uncovering a tendency for reprogramming towards a more stem-like state . Notably , Ara-C-resistant KG-1a cells predominantly originated from G2/M phase subpopulations , suggesting a resistance mechanism linked to specific cell cycle stages . Our findings further indicate that rapid Ara-C resistance is primarily driven by epigenomic changes , including alterations in DNA methylation , chromatin architecture , and transcription factor activity , whereas exonic mutations played a minimal role . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrates that AML drug resistance is predominantly driven by epigenomic mechanisms rather than genetic mutations . This study provides a detailed cellular and molecular characterization of AML drug response and resistance , identifying potential therapeutic targets and laying the groundwork for future efforts to overcome chemoresistance .
The nervous system can profoundly influence cancer prognosis , and this frontier of cancer neuroscience has increasingly garnered research attention . However , the involvement of neural signals in colorectal cancer remains incompletely understood . In this study , we exploit advanced three-dimensional imaging and conventional immunohistochemistry to observe a transitional loss of local sympathetic inputs from colorectal adenomas to adenocarcinomas in human patients . This negative correlation similarly occurs in the mouse models of colorectal cancer . Of importance , the pharmacologic ablation of sympathetic innervations significantly exaggerates the progression of colorectal tumors in the chemical-induced mouse model . We then demonstrate that the sympathetic neurotransmitter norepinephrine acts via alpha2-adrenergic receptors to elevate the cancer cell expression of chemokines to recruit CD8 ( + ) T cells , and the destruction of sympathetic signals leads to their reduction within the tumor microenvironment . Together , these results have elucidated a novel aspect of the neurodegeneration of local sympathetic inputs in promoting colorectal cancer progression .
While the tumor-suppressive functions of p53 are well established , the role of its homolog , TAp73 , in cancer remains incompletely characterized and is a subject of active investigation . In this study , we observed downregulation of TAp73 protein expression in cervical cancer tissues , which significantly correlated with adverse clinical outcomes . Through co-expression network analysis , we identified functional associations between TAp73 and key pathways involved in lipid metabolism and redox homeostasis-both critical regulators of ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of programmed cell death mediated by lipid peroxidation . Mechanistically , we demonstrate that TAp73 promotes ferroptosis by directly upregulating the transcription of beta-transducin repeat-containing protein ( beta-TRCP ) , thereby facilitating the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) , a master regulator of cellular antioxidant defenses . This TAp73-mediated suppression of NRF2 activity renders cells more susceptible to ferroptotic death . Furthermore , TAp73 expression is transcriptionally induced during ferroptosis through the combined inactivation of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 ( EZH2 ) , a core component of polycomb repressive complex 2 , and activation of E2F transcription factor 1 ( E2F1 ) . Notably , pharmacological inhibition of EZH2 synergized with sulfasalazine ( SAS ) to enhance ferroptosis in vivo , an effect largely dependent on TAp Together , these findings delineate a novel ferroptosis regulatory axis-EZH2/TAp73/beta-TRCP/NRF2-and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for cervical cancer intervention .
Epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) describes a process by which epithelial cells acquire mesenchymal properties associated with increased migration , invasion , and resistance to therapy . In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) , targeting the molecular and intercellular communication pathways that drive EMT represents a promising therapeutic strategy . Here , we investigate the effects of combined treatment with gemcitabine ( G ) , paricalcitol ( P ) , and hydroxychloroquine ( GPH ) in KPC-Luc orthotopic mouse models of PDAC , using single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , high-dimensional weighted gene co-expression network analysis ( hdWGCNA ) , and cell-cell communication analysis . GPH treatment reduces EMT , which is associated with the downregulation of the essential gene fibronectin ( Fn1 ) . Collagen and Fn1 pathways co-expression decreases in GPH-treated KPC-Luc tumors . Cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) appear dominant in collagen signaling , whereas macrophages mediate Fn1 signaling . GPH treatment reduces the expression interaction strength between ligands and receptors ( collagen-integrin and Fn1-Cd44 or Fn1-Sdc4 ) compared to sham , PH , and G . Altogether , this study presents a comprehensive single-cell resolution map of the molecular and cellular mechanisms by which GPH treatment impairs EMT in PDAC , identifying potential therapeutic targets within the fibronectin and collagen signaling axes .
Gastric cancer ranks fifth among the most prevalent cancers globally , with a dismal prognosis . In recent years , immunotherapy , particularly immune checkpoint inhibitors , has emerged as a glimmer of hope for advanced gastric cancer patients . However , not all patients can benefit from this treatment modality , as the tumor microenvironment significantly influences treatment efficacy . Exosomes , pivotal mediators of intercellular communication , exert intricate and diverse effects in shaping and regulating the tumor microenvironment . This review provides a comprehensive overview of the functional mechanisms of exosomes within the gastric cancer tumor microenvironment . It delves into their biogenesis , functions , and impact on innate and adaptive immune cells ( such as dendritic cells , myeloid-derived suppressor cells , and T cells ) and cancer-associated fibroblasts . Additionally , the potential applications of exosomes in gastric cancer immunotherapy are explored , including their use as biomarkers to predict responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors , and drug delivery vectors , and in the development of exosome-based vaccines and gene therapy . Notably , this review emphasizes the dual nature of exosomes : they can facilitate tumor immune escape , yet they also serve as promising targets for innovative therapeutic strategies . It also compares potential exosome-based strategies with existing immunotherapies like ICIs and emerging CAR-T cell therapies . Finally , insights into the future of exosomes in precision immunotherapy for gastric cancer are offered , presenting a forward-looking perspective on this emerging field .
Although a protective shell based on a metal-organic framework ( MOF ) can effectively improve the remediation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs ) by microorganisms , the functional characteristics of the shell are often limited by the surface charge , chemical properties and intrinsic strain characteristics . This study explored the potential of mixed organic acids ( MA ) as an eco-friendly modifier for zeolite imidazolate framework-8 ( ZIF-8 ) , facilitating the formation of a biomimetic mineralized shell around Bacillus subtilis ZL09- The addition of MA into the ZIF-8 protective shell was found to stimulate growth and bolster cell viability . Notably , adding MA contribute resulted in a 98- fold enhancement of the PHE degradation efficiency . After five cycles of reuse , ZIF-8-MA@B . subtilis ZL09-26 still maintained almost 90% of the initial PHE degradation ability . Proteomic analysis revealed a coordinated regulation of multiple metabolic pathways that facilitated PHE uptake and degradation , including central carbon metabolism , direct PHE biodegradation , oxidative phosphorylation , aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis , fatty acid biosynthesis , ABC transporters , and the biosynthesis of valine , leucine , isoleucine , and lysine . This work broadens the application potential of biomineralized microorganisms , providing novel strategies for the sustainable bioremediation of xenobiotic pollutants in the environment .
Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer ( NMIBC ) is highly heterogeneous , with frequent recurrence and progression . Identifying biomarkers can improve the prediction of therapeutic response and prognosis , guiding clinical decisions . In this study , public NMIBC databases were analyzed for differential expression , receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) , Cox regression , and Kaplan-Meier survival to identify and validate potential prognostic biomarkers of NMIBC . Functional enrichment analysis was conducted to reveal the potential molecular mechanisms of hub genes . Bioinformatics findings were validated through immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) and in vitro experiments . Immune cell infiltration and drug sensitivity analyses were performed to assess differences between low- and high-CIT expression groups . Citron kinase ( CIT ) was identified as a biomarker linked to aggressive tumors and poor prognosis in NMIBC patients . CIT overexpression predicts poor intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guerin ( BCG ) efficacy in patients with NMIBC . Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that the protein expression analysis of CIT was consistent with the mRNA analysis results . Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the function of CIT is associated with tumor development and progression . Furthermore , in vitro cell experiments demonstrated that CIT knockdown inhibited cell proliferation by inducing cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase via downregulation of cyclin dependent kinase Immune infiltration analysis revealed that high CIT expression contributed to BCG resistance by reducing CD8 + T cell infiltration in the NMIBC microenvironment . Additionally , drug sensitivity analysis further demonstrated that high CIT expression leads to resistance to common chemotherapy drugs , including epirubicin , gemcitabine , and cisplatin . This study identifies CIT as a promising biomarker , offering a foundation for prognostic evaluation and personalized therapeutic strategies for NMIBC patients .
Pathogenesis of Staphylococcus aureus is largely associated with its biofilm formation , that protects the cells from host immune system and antimicrobial threats . Considering the concern over the emergence of antimicrobial resistant S . aureus strains , this study was aimed to explore an effective alternative therapeutant . Trigonelline , an alkaloid , was evaluated for its antibiofilm and antivirulence activities against S . aureus . Trigonelline efficiently inhibited and eradicated biofilm , and abled to decrease the production of protease and hemolysin , the major virulence factors of S . aureus . Inhibition of biofilm formation and eradication of mature biofilm on the catheter surface suggested its potentiality in clinical application . The observed reduction in biofilm formation and virulence factor production following trigonelline treatment may be attributed to its ability to alter the expression of key regulatory genes such as agrA , sarA , saeR , arlR , icaR , and sigB , which control quorum sensing network and biofilm development . Additionally , molecular docking analysis revealed a substantial binding affinity of trigonelline to these regulatory proteins , further supporting its possible inhibitory mechanism . Thus , trigonelline might be a promising alternative chemical lead to manage biofilm-associated bacterial infections caused by S . aureus .
With the world population continuously increasing , the protein demand will double by Single cell protein ( SCP ) derived from lignocellulosic biomass offers a sustainable solution . Many inhibitors are produced during the pretreatment process of lignocellulosic biomass . Inhibitor-rich hydrolysates limit microorganisms cell growth and SCP yields . In this work , we report a co-culture consortium of Kodamaea ohmeri SSK ( pentose-utilizing yeast ) and Lactococcus lactis LX ( probiotic bacterium ) that efficiently converts real corn straw hydrolysate into SCP . K . ohmeri SSK can tolerate inhibitors such as furfural , 5-hydroxymethylfurfural ( 5-HMF ) , and acetic acid and consume glucose , xylose , and arabinose in real hydrolysate . L . lactis LX showed less growth in monoculture than that of co-culture . The total amino acid content from co-cultured K . ohmeri SSK and L . lactis LX was increased to 42 mg/g crude protein , but that of monocultured K . ohmeri SSK was 89 mg/g crude protein containing 17 amino acids . This work demonstrates a symbiotic microbial platform can produce SCP from non-detoxified lignocellulosic biomass . The co-culture robust inhibitor tolerance and balanced amino acid profile highlight its potential for industrial-scale protein production . These results will represent an attractive choice cell factory for lignocellulosic substrate utilization and provide a platform for biomass conversion to SCP .
As a promising marine bioresource , Amphidinium carterae represents a significant source of peridinin , a light-harvesting carotenoid exclusive to dinoflagellates . However , its low cultivation density has hindered its exploitation , particularly for efficient peridinin production . This study initially screened the optimal light intensity of 55 mumol/m/s and a mixotrophic culture condition supplemented with5 g/L glycerol for A . carterae cultivation . Subsequently , a combined cultivation strategy achieved the highest cell density of 76 x 10 cells/mL and a peridinin yield of 44 mg/L . Scale-up cultivation in column photobioreactors demonstrated the robust adaptability of A . carterae , as evidenced by the photosynthetic and respiratory rate measurements . Furthermore , comprehensive in vitro antioxidant assessments revealed the potent antioxidant activity of peridinin , which exhibited comparable efficacy to fucoxanthin and superior performance relative to beta-carotene . Through systematic optimization , this study has achieved the highest cell density and peridinin yield in A . carterae reported thus far .
The Australian and New Zealand Bone and Mineral Society ( ANZBMS ) is a leading bone research society in the Asia-Pacific region and has been recognised for outstanding contributions to clinical and biomedical musculoskeletal research . To showcase the research being undertaken by ANZBMS members , a joint initiative between ANZBMS and the journal Bone via a special issue was developed to further enhance international collaboration . This editorial serves as an introduction to this initiative , where three past ANZBMS presidents have shared their clinical and fundamental highlights from the 2024 ANZBMS annual scientific meeting in Adelaide , held in conjunction with the Endocrine Society of Australia and the Society for Reproductive Biology . Highlights include the importance of ethnicity when considering fracture risk , influence of paternal age on bone health in their offspring , novel combinations of bone active medications , bone biology and cancer , effect of glucocorticoids on the formation of neurogenic heterotopic ossification , parathyroid hormone signalling in hematopoietic and osteogenic lineages in the bone microenvironment and the regulation of osteoclast formation . Through a highly regarded platform such as Bone , and in line with the wider aims of the ANZBMS , this collaboration provides an update on the work being conducted by members of the society .
Hypophosphatasia ( HPP ) is the inborn-error-of-metabolism from deactivating mutation ( s ) of ALPL , the gene that encodes the cell surface " tissue-nonspecific " isoenzyme of alkaline phosphatase ( TNSALP ) . HPP ' s " biochemical signature " comprises low serum alkaline phosphatase activity together with elevated plasma levels of the TNSALP natural substrates phosphoethanolamine ( PEA ) , pyridoxal 5 ' -phosphate ( PLP ) , and inorganic pyrophosphate ( PPi ) . Excess extracellular PPi ( ePPi ) inhibits mineralization and affected children prematurely shed deciduous teeth and often suffer weakness and rickets . Yet , HPP severity is greatest among all dento-osseous disorders and not fully explained by autosomal dominant versus autosomal recessive inheritance involving >470 ALPL mutations . Discordance of HPP phenotype sometimes manifests even among full siblings sharing an identical ALPL genotype . Herein , a girl ' s markedly discordant HPP featured at presentation life-threatening hypercalcemia , failure-to-thrive , and renal compromise . Subsequent pseudotumor cerebri syndrome caused blindness , and then craniosynostosis required cranial vault reconstruction . However , she was not deformed , had moderate hypophosphatasemia , normal plasma PLP level , and mild radiographic features of HPP rickets . Elevated plasma N-terminal parathyroid hormone-related protein ( PTHrP ) suggested malignancy , but corrected after kidney transplantation . HPP was diagnosed when whole exome sequencing revealed heterozygous ALPL c . 1034C>T , p . A345V reported in mild pediatric HPP and transmitted by her mother who considered herself well . Genes conditioning ePPi formation and underlying other skeletal diseases were intact . Hypercalcemia , unresponsive to bone antiresorptive drugs , corrected promptly with asfotase alfa TNSALP supplementation therapy . Her markedly discordant findings highlight genotype/phenotype plasticity for pediatric HPP , and her clinical course importance for early diagnosis .
Synaptic plasticity is a neuron ' s intrinsic ability to make new connections throughout life . The morphology and function of synapses are highly susceptible to any pathological condition . Ischemic stroke is a cerebrovascular event that affects various brain regions , resulting in the loss of neural networks . Stroke can alter both structural and functional plasticity of synapses , leading to long-term functional disability . Upon ischemic insult , numerous glutamate-mediated synaptic destruction pathways and glial-mediated phagocytic activity are triggered , resulting in excessive synapse loss , altering synaptic plasticity . The conventional stroke therapies to improve synaptic plasticity are still limited and ineffectual , leading to sub-optimal recovery in patients . Therefore , promoting synaptic plasticity to ameliorate sensory-motor function may be a promising strategy for long-term recovery in stroke patients . Here , we review the involvement of different molecular pathways of glutamate and glia-mediated synapse loss , current pharmacological targets , and the emerging novel approaches to improve synaptic plasticity and sensory-motor impairment post-stroke .
Inflammatory bowel disease was linked to an increased risk for conduction defects and ventricular arrhythmia . It coincides with dysregulation of gut microbiota , increased inflammation , and deregulation of the renin-angiotensin system . In this study , we aimed to determine the mechanism of colitis-induced electrophysiological remodeling that increases the risk for ventricular arrhythmia . In a mouse model of dextran sulfate sodium induced active colitis ( 5 % , 7 days ) cardiac electrophysiological properties were quantified during active inflammation . Electrocardiographic recordings exhibited a prolonged QT duration in mice with active colitis compared to control . Field potential ( FP ) recordings of Langendorff perfused colitis-hearts exhibited increased FP dispersion , a reduced threshold for ventricular alternans , and an increased propensity for spatially discordant alternans . The increased propensity for alternans was also reflected in isolated ventricular myocytes where Ca ( 2+ ) transient alternans occurred at lower pacing frequencies and increased alternans ratios . The action potential was unchanged during colitis but myocytes exhibited a prolonged Ca ( 2+ ) transient duration that corresponded with attenuated phospholamban phosphorylation . Stimulating cellular SERCA activity ( Istaroxime ) , normalized the propensity for alternans . Serum levels of Angiotensin II ( AngII ) were increased during colitis and Angiotensin-converting enzyme ( ACE ) inhibitor or AngII receptor type 1 blocker prevented the increased alternans inducibility in isolated myocytes and hearts . Our data demonstrate that active colitis promotes reversible remodeling of ventricular Ca ( 2+ ) handling properties and increases the propensity for alternans and arrythmia . The changes can be prevented by ACE or AT1R inhibition supporting a cardiac benefit for controlling RAS signaling in patients with active colitis .
Aortic abundance of transferrin receptor 1 ( TfR1 ) , a cellular iron receptor , is increased in several vascular diseases ; however , the effects of anti-TfR1 antibody on vascular diseases remains largely unknown . Herein , we investigated our hypothesis that anti-TfR1 antibody can attenuate vascular remodeling . Mice were infused with angiotensin II ( AngII ) to induce vascular remodeling with or without anti-TfR1 antibody . Notably , anti-TfR1 antibody attenuated vascular remodeling in mice with AngII infusion . Moreover , anti-TfR1 antibody suppressed AngII-induced proliferation and migration in cultured vascular smooth muscle cells . Thus , targeting TfR1 with an antibody may have therapeutic potential for vascular remodeling .
The standard treatments for prostate cancer ( PCa ) include chemotherapy , hormone therapy , targeted therapies based on androgen receptor ( AR ) and/or gonadotropin-releasing hormone ( GnRH ) receptor antagonists , and radiation therapy . But PCa therapeutic resistance remains an unsolved challenge , leading to progression to castration-resistant prostate cancer ( CRPC ) . Emerging PCa therapies - including poly ( ADP-ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) inhibitors , AR crosstalk signalling pathway inhibitors , B-cell lymphoma 2 ( BCL-2 ) inhibitors , cyclin-dependent kinase 4 ( CDK4 ) /CDK6 inhibitors , CRISPR/Cas9 , epigenetic inhibitors , and nanotechnology-based drug-delivery approaches - provide promising targeted solutions . Targeted protein degradation therapy , particularly AR degradation therapies , effectively inhibits resistance at its source . This review summarises the established and emerging PCa therapies , focusing on discussing their efficacy in terms of PCa resistance with supporting experimental findings and the mechanisms of PCa drug resistance .
Why are up to 50% of patients with chronic urticaria resistant to antihistamines ? Why do many patients with indolent systemic mastocytosis suffer severe symptoms despite treatment with four times the approved antihistamine doses ? Do millions of patients with atopic diseases and related disorders have a histamine or , better , an antihistamine problem ? If one carefully analyzes human clinical studies with exogenous histamine challenge and endogenous mast cell activation with prophylactic antihistamine pretreatment , the assumed efficacy of antihistamines rapidly fades . Local tissue free drug concentrations of many antihistamines are <100 nM compared with 10-1000 microM possible extracellular local histamine concentrations after mast cell activation . Is the pharmaceutical industry suitably aware of this problem ?
The advent of scRNA-Seq sequencing technology has provided unprecedented resolutions in the analysis of gene regulatory networks ( GRNs ) at the single-cell level . However , new technical and methodological challenges also emerged . Factors such as the large number of zeros reported in expression levels , the biological variation due to the stochastic nature of gene expression , environmental niche , and effects created by the cell cycle make it difficult to correctly interpret the data obtained in the sequencing stage . On the other hand , the development of methods for the inference of GRNs , specifically using scRNA-Seq technology , proved to be of similar quality to random predictors . The lack of adequate pre-processing of gene expression data , including selection steps for subsets of genes of interest , smoothing , and discretization of gene expression , in addition to the different ways of modeling networks and network motifs , are factors that affect the performance of inference approaches . Finally , the lack of knowledge about the ground-truth network and the non-standardization of appropriate metrics to measure the quality of inferred networks make the process of comparing performance between algorithms a major problem , given the unbalanced nature of the data and the interpretation bias caused by the chosen metric . This article brings these issues to light , aiming to show how these factors influence both the inference process and the performance evaluation of inferred networks , through comparative computational experiments and provides suggestions for a more robust methodological process for researchers dealing with inference of GRNs .
Cesium lead halide nanostructures ( CsPbX , where X = I or Br ) are increasingly popular for solar cell applications , but their waste management remains underdeveloped , raising concerns about their potential accumulation in soil . This study investigates the environmental stability of CsPbI and CsPbBr nanostructures synthesized at different temperatures . Phenol was chosen as a model pollutant for the photocatalytic activity investigations , and the samples at 130 degrees C showed the ideal balance in terms of stability and activity . Therefore , these samples were then interacted with acidic and basic artificial soil extracts , thus representing the soil solution under different environmental conditions . X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , X-ray fluorescence ( XRF ) , diffuse reflectance spectroscopy ( DRS ) , and infrared ( IR ) spectroscopy were used to assess the material changes , while Pb leaching after interaction with soil extracts was measured by inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ( ICP-MS ) . CsPbI exposed to acidic extracts leached Pb , I , and Cs ( as CsI ) , while PbI stayed insoluble . Alkaline extracts caused minimal Pb leaching , indicating recrystallization , and CsPbBr showed similar behavior . ICP-MS measurements showed that Pb concentrations were higher in acidic soil extracts than in basic ones . Pb concentrations increased with longer exposure . CsPbI showed lower Pb concentrations than CsPbBr , suggesting that CsPbI is more stable . These findings emphasize the stabilization strategies-such as chemical modifications , protective surface coatings , or composite material designs-to improve the durability of CsPbX nanomaterials under realistic environmental conditions . Without such advancements , the large-scale deployment of these perovskites and nanostructures could pose significant environmental risks .
This study investigates the impact of renewable fuels , specifically three types of biodiesels along with ethanol on the chemical and cell toxicity properties of particulate matter ( PM ) released from a diesel engine compared to pure diesel . By blending 10% ( by volume ) of grape seed biodiesel , spent coffee biodiesel , and eucalyptus oil with diesel , three biodiesel blends ( DGs10 , DC10 , and DEu10 , respectively ) are produced and subsequently tested . Additionally , an ethanol blend comprising 9% ethanol and 1% biodiesel ( used as a stabilizer for the blend ) is evaluated . The PM compositions from the fuels tested in the present research are also acquired by an Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy system via a Scanning Electron Microscope . The amounts of water-soluble total carbon ( WSTC ) , water-soluble organic carbon ( WSOC ) , and water-soluble inorganic carbon ( WSIC ) , and their ratios relative to PM mass , are selected to identify water-soluble components via one Organic Carbon Analyzer . To assess the PM volatility and oxidation reactivity , a Thermogravimetric Analyzer is employed . To investigate the adverse effects of PM on cells , four characteristics are examined , which include cell viability , cellular reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) . The analysis indicates that both biodiesel and ethanol blends significantly change the chemical and cellular toxicity properties of PM compared to pure diesel , with ethanol blend demonstrating a more pronounced impact than biodiesel blends . Among biodiesels tested , DGs10 has more potential impact than DC10 and DEu10 in changes of PM chemical and cell toxicity properties , specifically in reducing PM carbon content , activation energy ( more oxidation reactivity ) , and cell death rate and increase in PM oxygen content . These characteristics position DGs10 as a promising option for renewable fuel in diesel engines , benefiting human health , the environment , and the efficiency of PM catalysts .
Fine particulate matter ( PM ( 5 ) ) is a key component of haze pollution and poses a substantial threat to human health . However , airborne bacteria and antibiotic-resistance genes ( ARGs ) , which are important biological components of PM ( 5 ) , have received less attention . In this study , we investigated the combined effects of haze on airborne bacteria and ARGs in PM ( 5 ) . Overall , during haze days , high concentrations of airborne bacteria ( haze : 24 +/- 85 cells/m ; non-haze : 00 +/- 95 cells/m ) were observed with unique bacterial community structures . At the genus level , Microvirga , Arthrobacter , and JG30-KF-CM45 were identified as the bacterial biomarkers of haze days . Neutral processes contributed more to the establishment of airborne bacterial communities on haze days ( R = 724 ) than that on non-hazy days ( R = 338 ) . The pathogenicity of bacterial communities per unit volume of air was significantly higher during haze days ( 36 +/- 36 cell/m ) than that during non-haze days ( 66 +/- 92 cell/m ) ( p < 05 ) . Redundancy analysis indicated that relatively stable atmospheric conditions and high concentrations of water-soluble ions ( Na ( + ) , Mg ( 2+ ) , Ca ( 2+ ) , and F ( - ) ) , metals ( Cd , As , Mn , and Cr ) , and carbonaceous fractions ( elemental carbon ) in PM ( 5 ) play critical roles in shaping the bacterial community during haze days . On haze days , airborne ARGs exhibited unique distribution characteristics and network structures with dominant bacteria . This study highlighted the impact of haze days on airborne bacteria and ARGs on PM ( 5 ) and provides a reference for managing the risks of bioaerosols .
Proline-based cyclic dipeptides ( CDPs ) from lactic acid bacteria are stereochemically diverse molecules , possessing oral bioavailability and significant pharmacological potential . Herein , we developed a robust two-step ion-exchange purification platform to comprehensively isolate 16 structurally defined CDPs from 82-h culture filtrates ( CFs ) of Lactobacillus plantarum LBP-K Utilizing cation ( Amberlite IRA-120 ) and anion ( Amberlite IRA-67 ) exchange chromatography , we generated the K10-CCDP-IV fraction from 82-h acetate membrane-filtered CFs , followed by CHCl extraction to obtain K10-CCDP-IV-MC . Additional test agents included LBP-K10-CF ( CHCl-unextracted CF ) , LBP-K10-MC ( CHCl-extracted CF ) , and a single cis-cyclo ( L-Phe-L-Pro ) . LC-MS-linked HPLC-based time-course quantification revealed peaks in total CDP concentration at 82 h , with notable increases in fractions F6 , F7 , F12 , F16 , and F In vitro studies using MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells demonstrated that both K10-CCDP-IV-MC and LBP-K10-MC significantly suppressed cell proliferation by inducing G1-phase arrest and mitochondria-mediated apoptosis , as evidenced by the increased expression of cytochrome c , cleaved caspase-3 , and BAD , along with the downregulation of Bcl- Furthermore , both treatments inhibited cancer stem cell characteristics , including a reduction in the CD133 ( + ) subpopulation , repression of Oct4 , and inhibition of sphere formation . In vivo , oral administration of LBP-K10-MC in xenograft-bearing SCID mice resulted in a significant reduction in tumor volume without systemic toxicity or adverse effects . These findings underscore the therapeutic relevance and preclinical validation of CDP-based consortia as orally deliverable , bioavailable , and multifunctional anticancer agents derived from a single probiotics . This supports their translational potential in dietary and therapeutic applications , offering a scalable , food-grade platform for the production of functional CDPs targeting breast cancer stemness .
The free fatty acid receptor 1 ( FFAR1 ) is a transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor that mediates the metabolic and insulinotropic effects of endogenous free fatty acids in pancreatic cells while also exerting neuro-regulatory effects in the brain . The complexity of FFAR1 derives from its multiple binding sites and the absence of conventional activation motifs observed in class A GPCRs . This study uses molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the molecular mechanisms that underpin endogenous signaling and allosteric regulation in the FFAR We investigated and compared three ligand-bound states and the APO state . The ligand-bound simulations included FFAR1 in complex with gamma-linolenic acid , FFAR1 in complex with gamma-linolenic acid and TAK875 , and a fully activated FFAR1 bundle complexed with docosahexaenoic acid and G-protein . The results highlight distinct protein contact fingerprints and dynamics in the ligand-bound states relative to the APO state . While ligand binding , in the absence of stabilizing G-protein , destabilizes the intracellular domain of the receptor , the second extracellular loop exhibits greater stability and salt bridge contact with the transmembrane domain . Notably , simulations of FFAR1 complexed with gamma-linolenic acid , bound at the intracellular domain , revealed stable interactions between gamma-linolenic acid and the receptor , as well as similar activation fingerprints when compared to FFAR1 in complex with docosahexaenoic acid and Gq . This suggests an effective allosteric regulation of the receptor following gamma-linolenic acid binding to the intracellular domain . Finally , a set of hydrophobic amino acid residues at the intracellular and extracellular domains appears to function as potential rotameric switches , facilitating water-mediated receptor activation .
Tumor-associated macrophages mainly differentiate into M2 phenotypes , which secrete cytokines that reshape the tumor microenvironment and promote tumor progression . This study was to explore the mechanism of CALB2 in M2 polarization and pancreatic adenocarcinoma ( PAAD ) . Clinical tissue samples of PAAD were collected , followed by detection of WTAP , FOSL1 , and CALB2 expression . The correlation between WTAP and FOSL1 or between FOSL1 and CALB2 was analyzed . THP1 cells were induced into M0 macrophages , followed by plasmid transfection and induction of M2-type macrophages . After macrophages were co-cultured with PAAD cells , functional experiments were designed to evaluate PAAD cell malignant behaviors . A transplantation tumor model and a liver metastasis model were established to assess tumor growth and metastasis . High expression of WTAP , FOSL1 , and CALB2 was found in PAAD tissues and M2-type macrophages . WTAP positively linked with FOSL1 , so as FOSL1 and CALB Mechanistically , WTAP enhanced m6A modification of FOSL1 to promote its expression , and FOSL1 promoted CALB2 transcription . Knockdown of WTAP , FOSL1 , or CALB2 in macrophages inhibited PAAD cell malignant behaviors , which could be reversed by CALB2 upregulation . WTAP knockdown restrained the growth and metastasis of PAAD in nude mice via the FOSL1/CALB2 axis . In conclusion , WTAP increased the m6A level of FOSL1 , activated CALB2 transcription , and promoted M2 polarization of macrophages , thereby promoting the growth and metastasis of PAAD .
Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever ( CCHF ) is a hemorrhagic fever caused by infection with the CCHF virus ( CCHFV ) , and has a mortality rate of up to 30% . Thrombocytopenia is a hallmark of CCHF ; however , the mechanisms underlying this manifestation remain poorly understood . In addition to hemostasis , platelets play a crucial role in recognizing pathogens and mediating immune responses . We investigated the mechanisms underlying thrombocytopenia associated with CCHFV infection by analyzing the platelet transcriptome in mice . Interferon-induced transmembrane protein 3 ( IFITM3 ) , a known antiviral factor , was significantly upregulated . The role of IFITM3 in response to CCHFV infection was characterized using the human megakaryoblast cell line MEG-01 , considered a parental cell line of platelets . Although the CCHFV infection rate was limited , MEG-01 cells maintained the infection and replication of CCHFV , leading to increased IFITM3 protein expression . We demonstrated that IFITM3 overexpression efficiently inhibited CCHFV infection , whereas IFITM3 knockout promoted viral infection . An interaction between IFITM3 and the CCHFV glycoprotein Gc was identified , which suppressed CCHFV entry into cells . The IFITM3 CIL-TMD domain is critical for this interaction . These results suggest that IFITM3 is a restriction factor and plays an antiviral role during CCHFV infection . Elevated expression of IFITM3 in platelets indicates that this could be a common mechanism by which platelets protect against viruses , including CCHFV , which may reduce platelet consumption and destruction caused by CCHFV infection . These findings provide valuable insights into the pathogenesis of CCHF-associated thrombocytopenia and offer foundational theoretical support for future therapeutic strategies .
BACKGROUND : In atopic dermatitis ( AD ) , epidermal disease hallmarks are driven by a complex cutaneous inflammatory milieu that varies between patients . How these variable inflammatory signals affect cellular and molecular epidermal AD phenotypes is difficult to study in vivo . OBJECTIVE : We aimed to unravel which AD-associated cytokines drive specific epidermal disease hallmarks . METHODS : We utilized primary and immortalized keratinocyte-derived human epidermal equivalents stimulated with T helper ( Th ) 2 , -17 and -22 cytokines . RESULTS : Morphological , functional and transcriptomic analyses revealed that Th2 cytokines interleukin ( IL ) -4 and IL-13 were main inducers of a pro-inflammatory and hyperproliferative epidermis . The presence of IL-17A or IL-22 in the Th2 milieu , and especially Th2 + IL-22 , most closely resembled AD hallmarks including spongiosis , more severe keratinocyte differentiation defects and epidermal barrier dysfunction . Single-cell spatial transcriptomics showed expansion of keratinocytes expressing high levels of proliferation genes , and downregulation of differentiation genes in the upper epidermal layers . The transcriptomic comparison to in vivo AD lesional skin indicated that the Th2 + IL-22 AD model demonstrated greatest resemblance and identified AD disease marker genes altered by Th2 + IL-22 such as downregulated ACER1 and AKR1C Gene expression levels were restored by combinatory exposure to aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AHR ) ligand tapinarof and Janus Kinase ( JAK ) inhibitor tofacitinib . This combined therapeutic approach also completely restored epidermal barrier function and improved morphological disease hallmarks . CONCLUSION : Our results reveal the important role of IL-22 in the Th2 driven acute AD pathophysiology and highlight the potential of combinatory medicine in targeted treatment of AD .
Asthma is a complex and chronic respiratory condition that affects both adult and pediatric populations . Several asthma endotypes have been described ; they include endotypes characterized by T ( H ) 2 cell inflammation , response to viral infection , and exposure to air pollution . Recent evidence has revealed a novel endotype of pediatric asthma , termed the frequent exacerbator ( FE ) endotype , which is characterized by recurrent exacerbations . In this review , we provide an overview of the FE endotype . We review its epidemiology , its definition , and its environmental and clinical associations . We also detail findings from recent molecular characterizations of a pediatric FE endotype , with a specific focus on airway gene expression studies . As asthma exacerbations drive mortality and economic burden associated with disease , understanding the factors leading to frequent exacerbations is an important step in development of novel therapeutics and treatment strategies .
BACKGROUND : Early infancy is marked by high susceptibility to severe viral respiratory infections and reduced protective antibody responses , making rapid development of local airway immunity essential . Despite this , the developmental dynamics of human airway B-cells and their interaction with airway epithelial cells ( AECs ) in early life remain poorly understood . OBJECTIVE : To study the developmental dynamics of human airway B-cell populations , the variation in AEC-derived B cell survival and maturation factors with age , and how viral respiratory infections influence their production . METHODS : Changes in human airway B-cell populations and survival receptors across different pediatric age groups were analyzed using a single-cell RNA sequencing dataset . The production of B-cell Activating Factor ( BAFF ) and other B-cell survival and maturation factors by human AECs was assessed in infants ( <12 months ) and older children , both at baseline and following viral stimulation in vitro . Additional in vivo validation studies assessed airway BAFF production at baseline and during PCR-confirmed viral respiratory infections across pediatric age groups . RESULTS : We observed age-dependent shifts in airway B-cell composition , identifying the BAFF/BAFF-receptor axis as critical for B-cell maturation and survival in early life . Although BAFF production in AECs is initially reduced in infants ( <12 months ) , it can be activated by viral stimuli both in vivo and in vitro . Mechanistic studies showed that BAFF production in human infant AECs is induced by type-I and III interferons ( IFN ) via JAK/STAT signaling . CONCLUSION : Human AEC JAK/STAT signaling activation regulates the early maturation of airway B-cell responses via local BAFF induction , particularly during viral infections .
The Autism Spectrum Disorder ( ASD ) is a neurodevelopmental condition that has been increasing in prevalence and is characterized by some degree of difficulty with social interaction , communication , and sensory response . According to the World Health Organization , ASD affects 1 in 100 children , and many factors may cause brain alterations , such as genetic and environmental factors . Currently , there is no standard treatment for ASD . Notably , one of the hallmarks of this condition is neuroinflammation since it has been suggested that autism results from central nervous system derangements due to chronic inflammatory reactions , with activation of microglial cells . Therefore , antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds may be nutraceutical supplements of interest to attenuate the impacts of neuroinflammation in ASD subjects . This review highlights the main molecules that have been successful in preclinical and clinical trials , as well as potential associations that might be further strategies to investigate .
Ultrasound insonification of microbubbles has been shown to increase vascular permeability to locally enhance drug delivery . For more effective and controllable therapeutic outcomes , uniform acoustic responses from microbubbles and a deeper understanding of the biophysical mechanisms of drug delivery are critical . In this study , we investigated the impact of monodisperse microbubble size and their dynamics on cellular responses and drug delivery outcomes in endothelial cells . Monodisperse microbubbles with radii of 5 , 2 , 7 , and 9 mum were produced using a microfluidic flow-focusing device . Upon insonification ( 2 MHz , 220 kPa peak negative pressure , 10 cycles ) , the microbubble oscillation was captured in real-time at 10 million frames per second using ultra-high-speed imaging , while confocal microscopy was employed to observe cellular responses in both 2D and 3D . For the 65 microbubbles studied , the 2 mum microbubbles , i . e . , corresponding to the resonant radius at 2 MHz ultrasound , exhibited the highest sonoporation rate ( 75 % ) , induced the largest membrane perforations ( a median value of 78 mum ) and highest intracellular drug uptake . The 5 mum microbubbles achieved a comparable sonoporation rate ( 73 % ) , yet with significantly smaller membrane perforations ( a median value of 20 mum ) , lower intracellular drug uptake , and highest occurrence of transendothelial drug delivery pathways ( 64 % ) . Mechanistically , microbubble-generated shear stress was identified as the significant factor driving sonoporation , while normal stress did not show significance . In conclusion , our study highlights the importance of carefully selecting the microbubbles size to maximize microbubble-mediated drug delivery outcomes and facilitate safe translation of monodisperse microbubbles into clinical practice .
The current frontline therapy for B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphomas ( B-NHL ) , the most frequent hematologic malignancy in the Western hemisphere , is based on immunochemotherapy ( ICT ) , i . e . , a combination of genotoxic cytostatics and the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody ( mAb ) rituximab . The treatment of relapsed or refractory ( R/R ) B-NHL remains an unmet medical need . Here , we developed and preclinically characterized a tailored hybrid mAb-polymer-drug conjugate ( APDC ) composed of the anti-CD38 mAb daratumumab ( clinically approved for multiple myeloma therapy ) and biocompatible N- ( 2-hydroxypropyl ) methacrylamide ( HPMA ) -based copolymers conjugated with a cytotoxic payload monomethyl auristatine E ( MMAE ) via a Val-Cit-para-amino benzyl carbamate spacer cleavable by lysosomal enzymes . This innovative APDC design results in a significantly higher drug-to-antibody ratio ( DAR ) while maintaining a degree-of-conjugation ( DOC ) comparable to that of standard antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) . The enhanced anti-lymphoma efficacy of the new APDC nanotherapeutics , compared to standard ADCs , was confirmed in vivo using patient-derived lymphoma xenografts from a patient with R/R B-NHL . These APDC nanomedicines show promise as a personalized targeted chemotherapy approach .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Radiotherapy is one of the standard treatments for breast cancer , but causes adverse effects in normal tissues , narrowing the therapeutic window . Caffeic Acid Phenethyl Ester ( CAPE ) has been proposed to have cytotoxic and radiosensitizing effects in cancer cells , whilst protective properties in normal tissues . We have investigated the anti-tumour effects of CAPE in breast cancer in vitro and in vivo and provided evidence regarding its radioprotective effect . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Cytotoxic and radiosensitizing effects were determined in vitro in luminal A , HER2 + and triple negative breast cancer and in normal breast cell lines by cell viability and clonogenic survival assays , respectively . Effects on cell metabolism , mitochondrial function and inflammation were investigated . CAPE anti-tumour effects were also investigated in vivo in a MDA-MB-231 tumour-bearing mouse model . RESULTS : Cell viability decreased upon CAPE treatment in a dose dependent manner ( IC 5 +/- 7 microM ) . CAPE shifted cellular metabolism towards glycolysis ( p < 05 ) and induced mitochondrial membrane depolarization ( p < 01 ) . CAPE sensitized only p53 mutated or deficient cell lines to radiotherapy ( p < 05 ) , but not p53 proficient lines . In normal breast cells , CAPE increased the surviving fraction upon radiation ( p = 03 ) . NF-kappaB activity was decreased in p53 mutant cancer cells ( p < 01 ) , but increased in p53 proficient lines ( p < 01 ) upon CAPE treatment . Combination of radiotherapy and CAPE resulted in increased survival ( 22 days ) compared to control ( p < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Our findings highlight that CAPE could widen the therapeutic window in breast cancer with non-functional p53 , by radiosensitizing the tumour cells while protecting the normal tissue .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : The NIELS trial will examine if inhomogeneous dose-escalated radiotherapy up to a mean dose of 80 Gy in 40 fractions ( fx ) , twice-daily delivered ( BID ) , for patients with limited disease small cell lung cancer can improve overall survival . Because of the inherent risks of dose-escalation , pre-trial QA is particularly important . This study aims to examine the feasibility of the NIELS trial planning approach in a multicenter setting . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The NIELS trial will randomize patients between standard dose radiotherapy ( 60 Gy/40fx BID ) and inhomogeneous dose-escalated radiotherapy ( up to 80 Gy/40fx BID ) . Five representative patient cases were distributed to seven Nordic centers for pre-trial QA planning of a standard and an escalated dose plan . Targets for escalation were primary tumor ( GTVp ) and involved lymph nodes ( GTVn ) . We evaluated inter-center variation in achievable dose-escalation and doses to organs at risk ( OAR ) . RESULTS : All targets could be escalated beyond the standard dose , with a median mean dose of 6 Gy [9-0] and 8 Gy [3-1] for GTVp and GTVn . Some targets could not be fully escalated due to OAR proximity . Three separate breaches of mandatory OAR constraints were observed in 35 escalated dose plans . There was a statistical difference in mean lung dose between standard and escalated plans , though clinically small , with a median inter-patient difference of 3 Gy . There were no differences in mean doses to the heart and esophagus . CONCLUSION : Inhomogeneous dose-escalation as planned in the NIELS trial is feasible , and the dose-escalation can be performed respecting the OAR constraints in a multi-center setting .
Retinal ganglion cell degeneration is the main cause of irreversible vision loss in optic neuropathies . Pigment epithelium-derived factor ( PEDF ) and its smaller peptide components ( 44-mer and 17-mer ) have shown neuroprotective effects . In this study , using a stepwise protocol we investigated their effects on human-induced pluripotent stem cell differentiation to retinal ganglion cells . Various concentrations of PEDF , 44-mer and 17-mer were added at day Investigated compounds significantly upregulated the expression of retinal ganglion cells-specific ( Brn3b , Sncg ) , retinal progenitor ( Pax6 ) and neuroaxonal markers ( Tau , NFH ) . They also highly increased Brn3b expression , as well as neurite length and density , supporting their neurotrophic properties . Our findings suggest that PEDF and its smaller peptide components , 44-mer and 17-mer , can be suggested as neuroprotective agentd for the promotion of retinal ganglion cell differentiation from human-induced pluripotent stem cells . 44-mer and 17-mer have comparable or even higher effects to full-length PEDF and might also bypass PEDF usage limitations .
Glaucomatous optic neuropathy represents a prevalent optic nerve degenerative disease . Neuroinflammation is recognized as a significant mechanism underlying optic nerve damage in glaucoma ; however , the precise mechanisms driving neuroinflammation remain largely elusive . Existing studies have indicated that microglia-driven neuroinflammation is pivotal for neuroinflammation onset and progression . Mitochondrial dysfunction , encompassing mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) damage , metabolic deficiencies , and quality control impairments , is upstream of microglial activation and neuroinflammation . Thus , a deeper comprehension of the link between mitochondrial dysfunction and microglial activation in glaucoma may provide valuable insights into the underlying pathogenesis . As a result of these findings , promising avenues for developing effective interventions to mitigate optic nerve damage and preserve visual function in glaucoma patients have been identified .
BACKGROUND : Surgical Biventricular Assist Devices ( sBiVADs ) are well-established in end-stage heart failure , while newer and less-invasive percutaneous BiVADs ( pBiVADs ) are understudied . We report these two approaches in the largest pBiVAD patient series to date METHODS : All consecutive BiVAD-supported patients at our institution from 2014 to 2023 were retrospectively reviewed ( n=46 ) . sBiVAD ( n=27 ) and pBiVAD patients ( n=19 ) ( defined as Impella 5 with Impella RP [n = 4] or percutaneous oxygenated-right ventricular assist device [n = 15] ) were compared . RESULTS : There were no significant differences in preoperative risk factors . pBiVAD patients required fewer intraoperative packed red blood cells ( 0 vs 0 , p <001 ) , fresh frozen plasma ( 0 vs 0 , p=001 ) , and platelet ( 0 vs 0 , p=001 ) transfusions . pBiVADs had fewer unanticipated returns to the operating room ( 47 +/- 70 vs 22 +/- 87 per patient , p < 001 ) and fewer postoperative packed red blood cells ( 0 vs 0 , p<001 ) , fresh frozen plasma ( 0 vs 0 , p<001 ) and platelet ( 0 vs 0 , p<001 ) transfusions . Thirty-day survival was not significantly different between sBiVADs and pBiVADs ( 6% vs 8% , p = 341 ) . CONCLUSIONS : We consider pBiVAD a less invasive , viable bridge to transplant , durable left ventricular assist device , or recovery .
Research indicates that abnormal gut microbiota metabolism is linked to colorectal cancer ( CRC ) progression , but the role of microbiota-related tryptophan metabolism disruption remains unclear . Using metagenomic sequencing and targeted Trp metabolomics , our research identified that CRC patients had abnormal indole-3-lactic acid ( ILA ) levels , which were related to tumor malignancy . Exogenous ILA administration suppressed CRC development in AOM/DSS induced and xenograft mice models . Furthermore , in vitro experiments demonstrated that ILA inhibits tumor cell proliferation , migration , and anti-apoptotic capabilities . Mechanistically , ILA appears to directly occupy the phosphorylation sites of STAT3 , leading to a reduction in intracellular phosphorylated STAT3 ( p-STAT3 ) levels and the inhibition of the HK2 pathway , thereby downregulating glucose metabolism in cancer cells . Notably , this inhibition is independent of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AHR ) . In conclusion , our research findings demonstrate that alterations in tryptophan metabolism among CRC patients can influence tumor progression and reveal a novel mechanism through which ILA exerts its inhibitory effects on CRC . These findings offer new insights into the role of gut microbiota in CRC and identify potential clinical therapeutic targets . FAU - Zhou , Shizhen
Natural substances with anti-inflammatory activity have always been the priority for human injuries . This study aims to investigate the beneficial effects and mechanism of sea cucumber protein ( SCP ) on wound healing , through a BALB/c mice model and LPS-induced RAW 7 cells . To find out how SCP paste works , we identified the mice ' s serum cytokines and tissue section . The alteration of the NF-kappaB pathway during the anti-inflammatory effect of SCP was also explored . The results showed that the wound healing rate in the SCP ( H ) group exceeded 90% , whereas it was 91% and 10% in the Control and NC groups on day New blood vessels and fibroblasts were generated in the wounds . Collagen expression increased by 89% and 12% respectively in the SCP ( L ) and SCP ( H ) groups compared with the Control group on day Furthermore , SCP decreased the levels of pro-inflammatory factors ( TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , IL-6 ) in mice ' s serum while up-regulating the level of anti-inflammatory factor ( IL-10 ) during the healing process . Furthermore , SCP suppressed the NF-kappaB pathway by decreasing protein levels of phosphorylated p65 and IKKalpha , and increasing protein levels of IkappaBalpha . &#xD .
Retinal degenerative diseases , including age-related macular degeneration ( AMD ) and retinitis pigmentosa ( RP ) , are leading causes of blindness globally , characterized by progressive degeneration of retinal pigment epithelium ( RPE ) and photoreceptor ( PR ) cells . Despite advancements , current therapies have not substantially arrested disease progression . Cell replacement therapy using healthy RPE and PR cells holds promise but faces obstacles such as poor cell survival , inadequate integration , and transplantation difficulties . To address these issues , tissue engineering combined with 3D printing has become a focal point . This study investigates the use of four hydrogels-GelMA , HAMA , AlgMA , and PEGDA-and their various crosslinked combinations for creating hydrogel thin-layer matrices conducive to RPE cell growth . PEGDA/GelMA hydrogel demonstrated optimal support for cell spreading and proliferation , which is not achievable with hydrogels matrices of other formulations . The relationship between the mechanical properties of PEGDA/GelMA hydrogels and cell growth was further refined . PEGDA600-20 hydrogel with a compressive modulus of 07 +/- 79 kPa was selected based on time-course viability assays , leading to the development of the optimized Fib@PEGDA/GelMA hydrogel exhibited exceptional biocompatibility . Compared to PEGDA/GelMA , CCK-8 assays demonstrated significantly improved relative cell viability at 24 h , 48 h , and 72 h , with increases of 73 +/- 22% , 54 +/- 63% , and 04 +/- 31% , respectively on Fib@PEGDA/GelMA matrix . qRT-PCR results indicated a mitigation of epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , as evidenced by downregulation of EMT markers ( CDH2 , COL1A1 , and FN1 ) , accompanied by reduced IL-6 levels . Fib@PEGDA/GelMA hydrogel enhanced phagocytic activity in ARPE-19 cells and promoted functional expression in hiPSC-RPEs . Additionally , the hydrogel showed favorable in vivo biocompatibility following subcutaneous implantation of RCS rats at 1 , 2 , and 4 weeks post-implantation evidenced by HE and Masson ' s staining . This system offers a promising bioink for 3D-printed retinal cell scaffolds and paves the way for future advancements in cell replacement therapies for retinal degenerative diseases .
The existence of specialised structures that allow a continuous exchange of CSF between different anatomical compartments at the brain-meningeal border is challenging conventional notions around molecular transport within the brain . Experimental findings highlight the conduits and cellular structures controlling the transport of CSF and immune cells between the brain parenchyma ( via the glymphatic system ) , the subarachnoid space ( enclosed by the meningeal pia and arachnoid layers ) , and the outmost meningeal dural layer and calvaria ( via the so-called arachnoid cuff exit points ) . Studies in both rodent models and humans show new mechanisms of brain glymphatic molecular transport , meningeal lymphatic vascular drainage , and immune surveillance at the brain-draining skull bone marrow and cervical lymph nodes . Pathological alterations at the brain-meningeal border have been implicated in disorders of diverse causes , from traumatic brain injury to Alzheimer ' s disease .
BACKGROUND : Trehalose is a disaccharide that activates autophagy pathways in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases , with the potential to catalyse clearance of toxic , misfolded proteins in motor neurons and slow disease progression in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) . We aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of trehalose in individuals with ALS . METHODS : The HEALEY ALS Platform Trial is a perpetual , adaptive , phase 2/3 , randomised , double-blind , multi-regimen trial conducted at 60 geographically diverse sites in the USA . In the current regimen , adults with clinically possible , probable , laboratory-supported probable , or definite ALS , defined by the revised El Escorial criteria , were randomly allocated ( 3 : 1 ) , stratified by use of edaravone and riluzole , to receive trehalose 75 g per kg intravenously weekly over 24 weeks , or matching placebo . The primary outcome was a composite of the relative rate of disease progression , as measured by the Revised ALS Functional Rating Scale ( ALSFRS-R ) , and survival over 24 weeks , estimated in a Bayesian shared-parameter model . The study included prespecified stopping rules for futility ; interim analyses occurred every 12 weeks . The primary outcome was analysed according to the intention-to-treat principle in all participants in the trehalose group , the placebo group within the regimen , and placebo groups from other contributing regimens ; the safety analysis population was comprised of all participants who initiated treatment . This study is registered with ClinicalTrials . gov , NCT FINDINGS : Between Feb 21 , 2022 , and Feb 17 , 2023 , 1021 participants were screened for the platform trial and 171 were assigned to the trehalose regimen . Of these , 161 participants met eligibility criteria , with 120 randomly allocated to trehalose and 41 to regimen-specific placebo . 164 participants randomly allocated to placebo in other regimens were added for analysis ( totalling 205 placebo recipients ) . The disease rate ratio for change in ALSFRS-R and survival was 87 ( 95% credible interval 665-102 , posterior probability of superiority 877 ) . Serious adverse events occurred in 19 ( 16% ) participants in the trehalose group and three ( 7% ) participants in the regimen-only placebo group , leading to premature discontinuations in 14 ( 12% ) versus one ( 2% ) , respectively . Fatal treatment-emergent adverse events occurred in seven participants in the trehalose group and none in the regimen-only placebo group . No death was considered related to the trial drug . The most common cause of death was respiratory failure , consistent with the natural history of ALS . INTERPRETATION : Trehalose was well tolerated but there was no evidence to suggest a difference in ALS disease progression compared with placebo in this study . No statistical benefit was seen in secondary clinical or biomarker measures , suggesting that trehalose at this dosage is unlikely to be efficacious for treatment of ALS . FUNDING : AMG Charitable Foundation , Tackle ALS , the ALS Association , ALS Finding a Cure , the Muscular Dystrophy Association , ALS ONE , the Arthur M Blank Family Foundation , I AM ALS , Tambourine ALS Collaborative , and other community fundraising initiatives and donors . Study drug and partial regimen-related funding was provided by Seelos .
BACKGROUND : Cardioembolic sources often remain undetected after standard diagnostic stroke workup , contributing to high rates of recurrence . We aimed to assess whether a head-to-neck CT angiography extended at least 6 cm below the carina ( extended CT angiography ) can increase the detection of cardioaortic thrombi compared with standard-of-care CT angiography ( standard CT angiography ) in patients with ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack . METHODS : This single-centre , prospective , randomised , open-label , blinded end-point trial was done at London Health Sciences Centre , Western University , Canada . Eligible patients were adults aged 18 years or older with ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack assessed during acute code strokes . Exclusion criteria were known allergy or concerns about the safety of iodinated contrast agents ( eg , severe renal failure ) and no intravenous access . Participants were randomly assigned in a 1 : 1 ratio to receive standard CT angiography or extended CT angiography . Patients , neurologists adjudicating qualifying events , cardiothoracic radiologists , and cardiologists adjudicating study outcomes were masked to randomisation . Adjudicators were considered masked to randomisation as they did not know which patients were crossovers , which patients in the standard of care arm had partial imaging of the left atrial appendage due to normal variations in size and shape , and which patients in the extended CT angiography group also had partial imaging of the left atrial appendage instead of full imaging . The primary efficacy outcome was the detection of a cardioaortic thrombus ( modified intention-to-treat population ) . The primary safety outcome was time to CT angiography completion ( as-treated population ) . The trial was registered at ClinicalTrials . gov , NCT05522244 , and is closed . FINDINGS : Between July 17 , 2023 , and May 6 , 2024 , 963 patients were assessed for inclusion . 133 were excluded because they already had a CT angiography at their local hospital , intracranial haemorrhage was identified on the initial non-contrast CT , a diagnosis of stroke was considered highly unlikely by the treating stroke neurologist , or randomisation was not possible . 830 patients were enrolled and randomly assigned to extended CT angiography ( n=415 ) or standard CT angiography ( n=415 ) . One patient withdrew consent and was excluded from the analyses . 364 participants who were later adjudicated as having experienced stroke mimics were excluded . 465 patients with ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack were included in the modified intention-to-treat population ( 226 in the extended CT angiography group and 239 in the standard CT angiography group ) . 239 ( 51% ) of 465 patients were female and 226 ( 49% ) were male . Median age of the analysis group at enrolment was 0 years ( IQR 0-0 ) . The primary outcome ( cardioaortic thrombus ) was detected in 20 ( 8% ) of 226 patients in the extended CT angiography group and four ( 7% ) of 239 in the standard CT angiography group ( odds ratio 70 , 95% CI 92-96 ; p=002 ) . There were no statistically significant differences in the median time from code stroke activation to CT angiography completion between the extended CT angiography group ( 0 min ; IQR 8-0 min ) and the standard CT angiography group ( 0 min , 0-0 min ) . The median difference between extended CT angiography and standard CT angiography groups was 0 min ( -0 to 5 ) , p=67 ) . INTERPRETATION : Performing extended CT angiography during acute code strokes is feasible and results in increased cardioaortic thrombi detection without causing delays in CT angiography completion . Future studies should assess whether extended CT angiography can reduce recurrent stroke risk by prompting early anticoagulation after thrombus detection . FUNDING : Western University , and the Kathleen and Dr Henry Barnett Chair in Stroke Research .
Advances in 3D bioprinting have opened new possibilities for developing bioengineered muscle models that can mimic the architecture and function of native tissues . However , current bioengineering approaches do not fully recreate the complex fascicle-like hierarchical organization of the skeletal muscle tissue , impacting on the muscle maturation due to the lack of oxygen and nutrient supply in the scaffold inner regions . A key challenge is the production of precise and width-controlled independent filaments that do not fuse during the printing process when subsequently extruded , ensuring the formation of fascicle-like structures . This study addresses the limitation of filament fusion by utilizing a a Pluronic-assisted co-axial 3D bioprinting system ( PACA-3D ) creates a physical confinement of the bioink during the extrusion process , effectively obtaining thin and independent printed filaments with controlled shapes . The use of PACA-3D enabled the fabrication of skeletal muscle-based bioactuators with improved cell differentiation and significantly increased force output , obtaining 3 times stronger bioengineered muscle when compared to bioactuators fabricated using conventional 3D bioprinting techniques . The versatility of our technology has been demonstrated using different biomaterials , demonstrating its potential to develop more complex biohybrid tissue-based architectures with improved functionality , as well as aiming for better scalability and printing flexibility .
Ovarian cancer remains a significant cause of mortality among women , largely due to challenges in early detection . Current screening strategies , including transvaginal ultrasound and CA125 testing , have limited sensitivity and specificity , particularly in asymptomatic women or those with early-stage disease . The European Society of Gynaecological Oncology , the European Society for Medical Oncology , the European Society of Pathology , and other health organizations currently do not recommend routine population-based screening for ovarian cancer due to the high rates of false-positives and the absence of a reliable early detection method . This review examines existing ovarian cancer screening guidelines and explores recent advances in diagnostic technologies including radiomics , artificial intelligence , point-of-care testing , and novel detection methods . Emerging technologies show promise with respect to improving ovarian cancer detection by enhancing sensitivity and specificity compared to traditional methods . Artificial intelligence and radiomics have potential for revolutionizing ovarian cancer screening by identifying subtle diagnostic patterns , while liquid biopsy-based approaches and cell-free DNA profiling enable tumor-specific biomarker detection . Minimally invasive methods , such as intrauterine lavage and salivary diagnostics , provide avenues for population-wide applicability . However , large-scale validation is required to establish these techniques as effective and reliable screening options . . Current ovarian cancer screening methods lack sensitivity and specificity for early-stage detection . . . Emerging technologies like artificial intelligence , radiomics , and liquid biopsy offer improved diagnostic accuracy . . . Large-scale clinical validation is required , particularly for baseline-risk populations . . . Chiu S , Staley H , Jeevananthan P et al . Ovarian Cancer Screening : Recommendations and Future Prospects . Rofo 2025 ; DOI 1055/a-2589-
The California Maternal Quality Care Collaborative ( CMQCC ) developed a pregnancy-adjusted sepsis screen that includes temperature >/=4 degrees F , heart rate > 110 bpm , respiratory rate > 24 bpm , and white blood cell count > 15 , 000/mm . This tool was not validated in the intrapartum state . We aim to evaluate the performance of the first part of the CMQCC sepsis screen to identify infection-related morbidity in patients diagnosed with intraamniotic infection . A retrospective cohort study was performed of 541 patients diagnosed with suspected intraamniotic infection prior to delivery at a single center from July 2017 to June The primary outcome was composite maternal infectious morbidity ( end-organ injury , bacteremia , intensive care unit admission , postpartum endometritis , postpartum readmission for infection , or maternal death ) in birthing people who screened positive ( two or more CMQCC sepsis screen criteria ) compared with those who screened negative . Binary logistic multivariable regression was performed with backward selection including overall sepsis screen results as well as individual screening criteria . Data presented as odds ratio ( OR ) with a two-sided p-value of 05 was used for significance . Of the 541 reviewed cases , 336 ( 62% ) screened positive while 205 ( 38% ) screened negative . Birthing people with a positive sepsis screen in labor had a higher rate of composite maternal infectious morbidity compared with those with a negative screen , although this did not reach statistical significance ( 6% vs . 7% ; p = 07 ; OR : 6 [96-68] ) . In evaluating individual criteria , heart rate > 110 bpm ( p = 003 ; OR : 1 [3-4] ) and respiratory rate > 24 bpm ( p = 039 ; 7 [09-8] ) were significantly associated with composite maternal infectious morbidity . Most birthing people with intraamniotic infection screen positive prior to delivery using the CMQCC sepsis screen . When looking at the sepsis screen ' s individual components , elevated heart rate and respiratory rate may be useful in identifying those at increased risk of infectious morbidity . . Most patients with intraamniotic infection screen positive prior to delivery using the CMQCC screen . . . The overall CMQCC sepsis screen was not associated with infectious morbidity . . . Elevated heart rate and respiratory rate may identify those at increased risk of morbidity . .
The mammalian liver exhibits remarkable regenerative capabilities after injury or resection . Central to this process is the precise modulation of gene expression , driven by changes in chromatin structure and the temporal activation of distal regulatory elements . In this study , we integrated chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic data after partial hepatectomy in mice . We show that the expression of crucial regeneration genes is orchestrated by a diverse array of cis-regulatory elements , including regeneration-specific enhancers and enhancers repurposed from various developmental stages . These enhancers collaborate to activate the transcriptional programs required for hepatocyte priming and proliferation , with their activity initially regulated by the activator protein-1 ( AP-1 ) complex and ATF3 , and subsequently by nuclear factor erythroid 2 ( NFE2 ) -related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) during proliferation . Our results also indicate that hepatic regeneration involves the repression of enhancers regulating liver-specific metabolic functions , particularly those involved in lipid metabolism . This study provides a genome-wide atlas of enhancer-gene interactions , offering new insights into the regulatory mechanisms underlying liver regeneration .
Tissues are composed of cells with a wide range of similarities to each other , yet existing methods for single-cell genomics treat cell types as discrete labels . To address this gap , we developed CellWalker2 , a graph diffusion-based model for the annotation and mapping of multi-modal data . With our open-source software package , hierarchically related cell types can be probabilistically matched across contexts and used to annotate cells , genomic regions , or gene sets . Additional features include estimating statistical significance and enabling gene expression and chromatin accessibility to be jointly modeled . Through simulation studies , we show that CellWalker2 performs better than existing methods in cell-type annotation and mapping . We then use multi-omics data from the brain and immune system to demonstrate CellWalker2 ' s ability to assign high-resolution cell-type labels to regulatory elements and TFs and to quantify both conserved and divergent cell-type relationships between species .
Humans cannot perceive infrared light due to the physical thermodynamic properties of photon-detecting opsins . However , the capability to detect invisible multispectral infrared light with the naked eye is highly desirable . Here , we report wearable near-infrared ( NIR ) upconversion contact lenses ( UCLs ) with suitable optical properties , hydrophilicity , flexibility , and biocompatibility . Mice with UCLs could recognize NIR temporal and spatial information and make behavioral decisions . Furthermore , human participants wearing UCLs could discriminate NIR information , including temporal coding and spatial images . Notably , we have developed trichromatic UCLs ( tUCLs ) , allowing humans to distinguish multiple spectra of NIR light , which can function as three primary colors , thereby achieving human NIR spatiotemporal color vision . Our research opens up the potential of wearable polymeric materials for non-invasive NIR vision , assisting humans in perceiving and transmitting temporal , spatial , and color dimensions of NIR light .
In a human cell , DNA is packed with histones , RNA , and chromatin-associated proteins , forming a cohesive gel . At any given moment , only a subset of the proteome has physical access to the DNA and organizes its structure , transcription , replication , repair , and other essential molecular functions . We have developed a " zero-distance " photo-crosslinking approach to quantify proteins in direct contact with DNA in living cells . Collecting DNA interactomes from human breast cancer cells , we present an atlas of over one thousand proteins with physical access to DNA and hundreds of peptide-nucleotide crosslinks pinpointing protein-DNA interfaces with single-amino-acid resolution . Quantitative comparisons of DNA interactomes from differentially treated cells recapitulate the recruitment of key transcription factors as well as DNA repair proteins and uncover fast-acting restrictors of chromatin accessibility on a timescale of minutes . This opens a direct way to explore genomic regulation in a hypothesis-free manner , applicable to many organisms and systems .
Epigenetic pathways could provide a mechanistic explanation for the inheritance of acquired characteristics , as proposed by Lamarck in 1802 , but epigenetic alterations that endow adaptive hereditary traits have rarely been observed . Here , in cultivated Asian rice ( Oryzasativa L . ) , we identified an epiallele conferring acquired and heritable cold tolerance , an adaptive trait enabling northward spread from its tropical origins . We subjected cold-sensitive rice to multigenerational cold stress and identified a line with acquired stable inheritance of cold tolerance . DNA-hypomethylation variation in the acquiredcoldtolerance 1 ( ACT1 ) promoter region rendered its expression insensitive to cold . This change is , in large part , responsible for the acquired cold tolerance , as confirmed by DNA-methylation editing . Natural variation in ACT1 DNA hypomethylation is associated with cold tolerance and rice geographic distribution . Hypomethylation at ACT1 triggers adaptive cold tolerance , presenting a route to epigenetic-variation-driven inheritance of acquired characteristics .
Genome-wide association studies ( GWASs ) of melanoma risk have identified 68 independent signals at 54 loci . For most loci , specific functional variants and their respective target genes remain to be established . Capture-HiC is an assay that links fine-mapped risk variants to candidate target genes by comprehensively mapping chromatin interactions . We performed a melanoma GWAS region-focused capture-HiC assay in human primary melanocytes to identify physical interactions between fine-mapped risk variants and potential causal melanoma-susceptibility genes . Overall , chromatin-interaction data alone nominated potential causal genes for 61 of the 68 melanoma risk signals , identifying many candidates beyond those reported by previous studies . We further integrated these data with epigenomic ( chromatin state , accessibility ) , gene expression ( expression quantitative trait locus [eQTL]/transcriptome-wide association study [TWAS] ) , DNA methylation ( methylation QTL [meQTL]/methylome-wide association study [MWAS] ) , and massively parallel reporter assay ( MPRA ) data generated from melanoma-relevant cell types to prioritize potentially cis-regulatory variants and their respective candidate gene targets . From the set of fine-mapped variants across these loci , we identified 140 prioritized credible causal variants linked to 195 candidate genes at 42 risk signals . In addition , we developed an integrative scoring system to facilitate candidate gene prioritization , integrating melanocyte and melanoma datasets . Notably , at several GWAS risk signals , we observed long-range chromatin connections ( 500 kb to >1 Mb ) with distant candidate target genes . We validated several such cis-regulatory interactions using CRISPR inhibition , providing evidence for known cancer driver genes MDM4 and CBL , as well as the SRY-box transcription factor SOX4 , as likely melanoma risk genes .
POPDC2 encodes the Popeye domain-containing protein 2 , which has an important role in cardiac pacemaking and conduction , due in part to its cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) -dependent binding and regulation of TREK-1 potassium channels . Loss of Popdc2 in mice results in sinus pauses and bradycardia , and morpholino-mediated knockdown of popdc2 in zebrafish results in atrioventricular ( AV ) block . We identified bi-allelic variants in POPDC2 in four families with a phenotypic spectrum consisting of sinus node dysfunction , AV conduction defects , and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy . Using homology modeling , we show that the identified variants are predicted to diminish the ability of POPDC2 to bind cAMP . In in vitro electrophysiological studies , we demonstrated that , in contrast with wild-type POPDC2 , variants found in affected individuals failed to increase TREK-1 current density . While muscle biopsy of an affected individual did not show clear myopathic disease , it showed significantly reduced abundance of both POPDC1 and POPDC2 , suggesting that stability and/or membrane trafficking of the POPDC1-POPDC2 complex is impaired by pathogenic variants in either protein . Single-cell RNA sequencing from human hearts demonstrated that co-expression of POPDC1 and POPDC2 was most prevalent in AV node , AV node pacemaker , and AV bundle cells . Using population-level genetic data of more than 1 million individuals , we show that none of the familial variants were associated with clinical outcomes in heterozygous state , suggesting that heterozygous family members are unlikely to develop clinical manifestations and therefore might not necessitate clinical follow-up . Our findings provide evidence for bi-allelic variants in POPDC2 causing a Mendelian autosomal recessive cardiac syndrome .
In recent years , dozens of anti-phage defense systems have been identified . However , efforts to find these systems have focused predominantly on lytic phages , leaving defense against temperate phages poorly understood . Here , we isolated 33 temperate phages from a diverse collection of E . coli to create a library of single lysogens , which were tested for defense against the same set of temperate phages . We found that the majority of lysogens offer protection against at least one additional phage from the collection , often displaying broad defense against various phages . Defense efficacy varies based on growth media and host background , suggesting that some systems are context dependent . Using an iterative deletion-based strategy , we identify 17 systems responsible for the prophage-encoded defense , including 5 toxin-antitoxin modules . Collectively , our work uncovers a diverse array of phage-phage interactions and indicates that temperate phages encode a previously unrecognized arsenal of anti-phage defense systems .
This phase 2 study investigates first-line benmelstobart plus anlotinib and chemotherapy in human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) -negative unresectable locally advanced/metastatic gastric or gastroesophageal junction ( G/GEJ ) cancer . Twenty-five eligible patients receive benmelstobart plus anlotinib and chemotherapy for 6 cycles , followed by benmelstobart and anlotinib maintenance . Of 24 patients with post-treatment imaging , objective response rate ( ORR ) is 0% ( 95% confidence interval [CI] , 3%-2% ; partial response [PR] , 18 [0%] ) , and disease control rate ( DCR ) is 0% . The median duration of response ( DoR ) is 9 months . By the date cutoff , the median follow-up is 8 months . Median progression-free survival ( PFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) among all 25 patients are 3 and 2 months , respectively . Survival outcomes are not associated with programmed death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) expression . Lymphocytes , T cells , and CD3 ( + ) CD8 ( + ) T cells are enriched in patients with long-term response ( PFS > 12 months ) . Most common grade >/=3 treatment-related adverse event ( TRAE ) is neutrophil count decreased ( 12% ) . This study shows promising efficacy and safety , representing a potential first-line option in patients with HER2-negative advanced G/GEJ cancer , regardless of PD-L1 expressions . The study was registered at ClinicalTrials . gov ( NCT04891900 ) .
Efficient gene delivery vectors are crucial for respiratory and lung disease therapies . We report that AAV . CPP . 16 , an engineered adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) variant derived from AAV9 , efficiently transduces airway and lung cells in mice and non-human primates via intranasal administration . AAV . CPP . 16 outperforms AAV6 and AAV9 , two wild-type AAVs with demonstrated tropism for respiratory tissues , and efficiently targets key respiratory cell types . It supports gene supplementation and editing therapies in two clinically relevant mouse models of respiratory and lung diseases . A single intranasal dose of AAV . CPP . 16 expressing a dual-target , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) /transforming growth factor ( TGF ) -beta1-neutralizing protein protected lungs from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , while a similar application of AAV . CPP . 16 carrying an " all-in-one " CRISPR-Cas13d system inhibited transcription of the SARS-CoV-2-derived RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( Rdrp ) gene . Our findings highlight AAV . CPP . 16 as a promising vector for respiratory and lung gene therapy .
The human brain has a very limited capacity for self-repair , presenting significant challenges in recovery following injuries such as ischemic stroke . Stem cell-based therapies have emerged as promising strategies to enhance post-stroke recovery . Building on a large body of preclinical evidence , clinical trials are currently ongoing to prove the efficacy of stem cell therapy in stroke patients . However , the mechanisms through which stem cell grafts promote neural repair remain incompletely understood . Key questions include whether these effects are primarily driven by the secretion of trophic factors that stimulate endogenous repair processes , direct neural cell replacement , or a combination of both mechanisms . This review explores the latest advancements in neural stem cell therapy for stroke , highlighting research insights in brain repair mechanisms . Deciphering the fundamental mechanisms underlying stem cell-mediated brain regeneration holds the potential to refine therapeutic strategies and advance treatments for a range of neurological disorders .
Enhancing energy utilization by increasing the number or activity of beige adipocytes has the potential to be of therapeutic benefit for a broad range of metabolic disorders . However , knowledge gaps in our understanding of the mouse versus human developmental origins of beige fat have inhibited the generation of robust preclinical models , leaving a barrier to the success of therapies . Here , we report that a distinct inguinal beige adipose tissue ( ibAT ) depot lineage traces to the same Prx1+ cell origins as inguinal white adipose tissue ( iWAT ) but maintains higher thermogenic activity and capability during aging . We discovered that ibAT has the morphological appearance of human supraclavicular brown adipose tissue ( scBAT ) and , importantly , conserved molecular markers and developmental origins with human scBAT . Our findings reveal a distinct mouse beige adipose tissue depot and provide a preclinical model of human beige adipose tissue development and maintenance .
The transcriptional regulation underlying eye field ( retinal primordium ) development requires precise control , yet the mechanisms guiding lineage-specific differentiation within the central nervous system ( CNS ) remain incompletely understood . Using neuroectoderm ( NE ) organoids derived from mouse embryonic stem cells , we investigate the role of PRDM13 in eye field specification . We demonstrate that Prdm13 expression inhibits RX ( + ) eye field fate but permits non-eye field NE differentiation , an effect that depends on its first and second zinc-finger domains . Prdm13 activates the WNT/beta-catenin signaling pathway during differentiation , leading to downregulation of key transcription factors crucial for establishing the eye field . Pharmacological inhibition of WNT signaling abolishes PRDM13-mediated suppression , restoring RX ( + ) eye field differentiation . Our work reveals a previously undescribed PRDM13-WNT signaling axis that regulates lineage-specific neural differentiation of embryonic stem cells .
Human pluripotent stem cells ( hPSCs ) maintain diploid populations for generations despite frequent mitotic errors that cause aneuploidy or chromosome imbalances . Consequently , aneuploid hPSC propagation must be prevented to sustain genome stability , but how this is achieved is unknown . Surprisingly , we find that , unlike somatic cells , uniformly aneuploid hPSC populations with heterogeneous abnormal karyotypes proliferate . Instead , in mosaic populations , cell-non-autonomous competition between neighboring diploid and aneuploid hPSCs eliminates less fit aneuploid cells , regardless of specific chromosome imbalances . Aneuploid hPSCs with lower MYC or higher p53 levels relative to diploid neighbors are outcompeted but conversely gain an advantage when MYC and p53 relative abundance switches . Thus , MYC- and p53-driven cell competition preserves hPSC genome integrity despite their low mitotic fidelity and intrinsic capacity to proliferate with an aneuploid genome . These findings have important implications for using hPSCs in regenerative medicine and for how diploid human embryos form during development despite the prevalence of aneuploidy .
Isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 ( IDH ) mutations are early initiating events in acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . The complex clonal architecture and cellular heterogeneity in IDH-mutant AML underlies the heterogeneous clinical presentation and outcomes . Integrating single-cell genotyping and transcriptomics , we demonstrate a stem-like and inflammatory phenotype of IDH-mutant AML and identify clone-specific programs associated with NPM1 , NRAS , and SRSF2 co-mutations . Furthermore , these clones had distinct responses to treatment with combination IDH inhibitors and chemotherapy , including elimination , reconstitution of myeloid differentiation , or retention within progenitor populations . At relapse after IDH inhibitor monotherapy , we identify upregulated stemness , inflammation , mitochondrial metabolism , and anti-apoptotic factors , as well as downregulated major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class II antigen presentation . At the pre-leukemic stage , we observe upregulation of IDH2-associated pathways , including inflammation . We deliver a detailed phenotyping of IDH-mutant AML and a framework for dissecting contributions of recurrently mutated genes in AML at diagnosis and following therapy , with implications for precision medicine .
The use of the GLP-1R agonist semaglutide is revolutionizing the treatment of obesity , yet its mechanistic effects on energy balance remain elusive . Here , we demonstrate that reactivation of semaglutide-responsive dorsal vagal complex neurons mimics the drug ' s effects of reducing food intake and body weight and promoting fat utilization and conditioned taste aversion . We observe that many of the semaglutide-activated area postrema ( AP ) and nucleus of the solitary tract ( NTS ) neurons express Adcyap1 mRNA , and ablation of AP/NTS Adcyap1 ( + ) neurons largely reverses semaglutide ' s effects on energy balance acutely in lean mice and in subchronically treated obese mice . Semaglutide-activated AP/NTS Adcyap1 ( + ) neurons promote the loss of fat rather than lean mass , with only a modest effect on conditioned taste aversion . Furthermore , NTS Adcyap1 ( + ) neurons are engaged by GLP-1R-expressing AP neurons and are necessary for semaglutide-induced activation of several downstream satiety-related structures . Selective targeting of semaglutide-responsive Adcyap1 ( + ) neurons holds potential for improved future anti-obesity treatments .
Marine non-cyanobacterial diazotrophs ( NCDs ) are widespread in the oceans , but the processes controlling nitrogen fixation in cell populations remain understudied . In this study , we combined high-throughput sequencing , genetic and physiological characterization , and single-cell quantification of nitrogenase expression to investigate the growth strategies of the marine NCD Vibrio diazotrophicus . We demonstrate that this marine NCD is highly versatile , capable of utilizing a broad range of organic and inorganic nitrogen sources . Quantitative fluorescence microscopy revealed intense posttranscriptional regulation of nitrogenase expression and that V . diazotrophicus regulates both the proportion of cells and their nitrogenase expression levels based on ammonium concentration in an NtrC-dependent manner . We also found that this phenotypic heterogeneity in nitrogenase expression is more widespread among marine NCDs , suggesting it is a conserved trait . These findings help explain their high abundance in the oceans and deepen our understanding of their ecological importance .
Reactive gliosis is a hallmark of neuropathology and offers a potential target for addressing numerous neurological diseases . Here , we show that growth arrest and DNA damage inducible gamma ( GADD45G ) , a stress sensor in astrocytes , is a nodal orchestrator of reactive gliosis and neurodegeneration . GADD45G expression in astrocytes is sufficient to incite astrogliosis , microgliosis , synapse loss , compromised animal behavior , and the aggravation of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . Conversely , silencing GADD45G specifically in astrocytes preserves synapses and rescues the histological and behavioral phenotypes of AD . Mechanistically , GADD45G controls the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase 4 ( MAP3K4 ) and neuroimmune signaling pathways , including nuclear factor kappaB ( NF-kappaB ) and interferon regulatory factor 3 ( IRF3 ) , leading to profound molecular changes and the secretion of various factors that regulate both cell-autonomous and cell-nonautonomous reactive gliosis and glia-neuron interactions . These results uncover GADD45G signaling as a promising therapeutic target for AD and potentially for numerous other neurological disorders .
BACKGROUND : The circadian system plays a crucial role in managing cardiovascular functions , with disturbances in this system associated with Myocardial Infarction ( MI ) . Despite this connection , the exact mechanisms by which clock genes influence MI occurrence are not well-defined . This research focused on investigating the link between clock genes and MI . METHODS : The authors examined MI microarray datasets ( GSE151412 and GSE60993 ) from the GEO database , concentrating on Differentially Expressed Genes ( DEGs ) associated with the circadian system . To clarify critical biological functions and pathways , the authors performed enrichment analyses using Gene Ontology ( GO ) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) . Through Lasso regression , the authors pinpointed hub genes and confirmed their relevance using both the GSE66360 dataset and quantitative Reverse Transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction ( qRT-PCR ) . Furthermore , the authors conducted single-Gene Set Enrichment Analysis ( GSEA ) to reveal pathways linked to the hub gene . The analysis extended to exploring drug interactions and networks involving competing endogenous RNA ( ceRNA ) . RESULTS : The present analysis identified ten clock genes associated with circadian rhythms that showed differential expression between MI patients and healthy controls . Enrichment analysis suggested these genes ' roles in pathways like the Gap junction and circadian rhythm pathways . Following Lasso regression and validation , RPS27A was identified as the main hub gene . GSEA further highlighted enriched pathways , such as mismatch repair . Additionally , immune infiltration analysis revealed notable differences in B-cell and CD4+ T-cell populations between the MI group and the control group . CONCLUSION : The present findings suggest that the clock-related gene RPS27A is associated with MI , potentially influencing its development through circadian rhythm regulation . These results enhance the understanding of MI pathogenesis and may offer new avenues for therapeutic intervention .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is a significant public health concern , with macrophage phenotypes implicated in its progression . Although extensive inflammation-suppressing circular RNA ( ciR-EIS , formerly named as hsa_circ_0008882 ) has been implicated in inflammation regulation , its role in macrophage polarization within the context of MASH remains unexplored . This study aimed to clarify the effect of ciR-EIS on macrophage polarization in MASH . METHODS : Immunofluorescence-fluorescence in situ hybridization was used to evaluate the localization of ciR-EIS in human liver sections . THP-1-derived macrophages ( TDMs ) were utilized to study ciR-EIS functions in vitro . Flow cytometry and RT-qPCR were employed to evaluate macrophage polarization after transfection . Bodipy assay was used to measure lipid buildup in HepG2 cells . Immunohistochemistry was used to confirm liver insulin-like growth factor 1 ( IGF1 ) expression . Retrospective clinical records were analyzed to examine the association between cir-EIS , IGF1 , and MASH . RESULTS : CiR-EIS was downregulated in patients with MASH and colocalized with the macrophage marker CD CiR-EIS and mitochondrially encoded NADH dehydrogenase 5 ( MT-ND5 ) were downregulated in M1 macrophages and upregulated in M2 macrophages . TDM-derived supernatants overexpressed ciR-EIS , significantly reducing HepG2 lipid deposition and inhibiting LX2 proliferation . Overexpression of ciR-EIS in TDMs significantly inhibited M1 macrophage markers CD86 , interleukin-1 beta , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha while enhancing M2 macrophage markers CD163 and CD CiR-EIS regulated macrophage polarization in a manner involving the miR-548m/IGF1 axis . Serum IGF1 levels were positively correlated with ciR-EIS , and both of them were notably reduced in patients with MASH and inversely correlated with APRI and FIB-4 scores . CONCLUSIONS : CiR-EIS regulates macrophage polarization in a manner involving the miR-548/IGF1 axis , thereby reducing hepatocyte lipid accumulation and stellate cell proliferation in MASH . It demonstrates potential as a diagnostic marker and therapeutic target for MASH .
The objective of this study was to analyse the effect of slow freezing on the morphology and viability of canine isolated preantral follicles . Ovaries were collected from ovariohysterectomy bitches being in different ages . Preantral follicles were isolated from ovarian cortex using collagenase-based digestive solution and randomly divided into two groups : fresh control and slow frozen . Fresh and frozen/thawed preantral follicles were cultured individually in 100 microl drops of culture medium for 10 days at 5 degrees C with 5 % CO , and half of the medium was changed and samples from culture media were collected on Day 2 , Day 5 and Day 10 for hormonal analysis . Post-thaw live cell rate , normal morphology rate , area change , and estradiol and progesterone production were examined . Frozen/thawed follicles have lower number of live cells than that of fresh ones ( 69 % ( +/- 97 ) vs 58 % ( +/- 71 ) , respectively [p < 05] ) . Normal morphology rate was different only on Day2 ( 2 % in fresh and 50 % in frozen/thawed , p < 05 ) and showed decreasing tendency in both groups . Differences in follicular growth were found on Day5 and 10 , when fresh follicles showed lower area than that of frozen/thawed ones ( 84 vs62 mm [p < 005] and 47 vs 75 mm [p < 05] , respectively ) . Regarding the hormonal production , estradiol and progesterone concentrations were lower in frozen/thawed samples than that of fresh follicles throughout the culture period . In conclusion , our data suggest that slow freezing can provide canine follicular survival , however , the quality and viability of the follicles are reduced .
Tertiary lymphoid structures , lymphoid cell clusters formed in response to cancer or chronic disease , serve as a prognostic marker in multiple cancer types , including endometrial carcinoma . We assessed the prognostic significance of tertiary lymphoid structures , using the surrogate marker L1 cell adhesion molecule ( L1CAM ) , in 1208 endometrial carcinoma patients in all stages , histological subtypes , and risk groups . Immunohistochemical evaluation of L1CAM in 1 tissue section from each patient revealed tertiary lymphoid structure-positivity in 287 of 1208 ( 8% ) cases . In univariable analyses , patients with tertiary lymphoid structure-positive tumors had significantly longer time to recurrence ( HR 61 , p < . 001 ) and cancer-specific survival ( HR 53 , p < . 001 ) compared to patients with tumors without tertiary lymphoid structures . In multivariable analyses with standard clinical and pathological markers as well as modern molecular classification , the presence of tertiary lymphoid structures was an independent prognostic marker for time to recurrence ( HR 63 , p < . 001 ) and cancer-specific survival ( HR 54 , p < . 001 ) . The presence of tertiary lymphoid structures was more frequent in POLE-mutated ( 4% ) and mismatch repair deficient ( 3% ) compared to p53-abnormal ( 8% ) and no specific molecular profile ( 7% ) tumors . In patients with p53-abnormal tumors , the presence of tertiary lymphoid structures was significantly associated with better outcomes for both time to recurrence ( HR 51 , p = . 014 ) and cancer-specific survival ( HR 52 , p = . 021 ) in multivariable analyses . These findings suggest that the evaluation of tertiary lymphoid structures by L1CAM may enhance prognostic precision in endometrial carcinoma .
All-solid-state batteries ( ASSBs ) are being actively researched worldwide as promising next-generation alternatives to lithium-ion batteries ( LIBs ) . To further enhance the performance of ASSBs , it is essential to quantitatively understand the contact interface between the active material and the solid electrolyte ( SE ) in the electrode . However , there is no established method to quantitatively evaluate this contact interface . In this study , we assessed the contact interface between the active material and the SE-which is challenging to quantify under constrained test fixture conditions-using electrochemical impedance spectroscopy ( EIS ) . The capacitance obtained from EIS measurements served as a quantifiable indicator . We demonstrated that approximation methods enable accurate capacitance quantification under practical EIS measurement conditions ( up to approximately 10 mHz ) for battery development . An electrode composite , prepared using a cathode active material and a sulfide-based SE , exhibited increased capacitance with longer mixing times , confirming an improved contact interface between the active material and the SE . Capacitance was highlighted as a critical parameter , exhibiting a correlation with the forming and stacked pressures in ASSBs , and was strongly linked to cell performance . To the best of our knowledge , this study is the first to quantify the contact interface between the active material and the SE in solid-state batteries using capacitance as an indicator .
Arsenic is a prevalent environmental toxin associated with cancer that disrupts the immune surveillance and defense functions of macrophages . The MiT/TFE family plays a crucial role in maintaining lysosomal biogenesis and homeostasis , with TFE3 being ubiquitously expressed across most immune cell types , however , its specific role in immune function remains largely unexplored and controversial . In this study , arsenic decreased the cellular phagocytic and adhesion abilities and co-stimulatory molecules CD80 , CD86 and pro-inflammatory cytokines TNF-alpha , IL-6 and IL-1beta of cultured J774A . 1 macrophages . We also observed that arsenic exposure decreased mRNA expression of LYSET and lysosomal hydrolases Ctsd and Ctss , impaired OVA degradation , reduced Lyso-Tracker Red and Lyso-Sensor Green fluorescence intensity , caused abnormal lysosomal pH , as well as blocked the autophagic flux process in macrophages . Co-treatment with arsenic and CQ further enhanced these arsenic-induced immune responses . More importantly , TFE3 knockdown significantly reduced lysosomal cathepsins levels of CTSB and CTSD , decreased lysosomal abundance , disrupted the lysosomal acidic environment and membrane permeabilization . Further TFE3 knockdown enhanced the decrease in phagocytosis , cellular adhesion , and Icam-1 mRNA expression in macrophages . In addition , the co-stimulatory molecules and pro-inflammatory cytokines were further reduced . By contrast , TFE3 overexpression partially alleviated the above lysosomal impairment and macrophage dysfunction induced by arsenic exposure . Collectively , arsenic exposure impairs macrophages immune function and lysosomal homeostasis . TFE3 regulates lysosomal biogenesis and homeostasis , alleviates arsenic-induced lysosomal and immune dysfunction in macrophages . Targeting the MiT/TFE family may provide new strategies for modulating lysosomal homeostasis and immune function .
Ginkgolide B ( GB ) is a diterpenoid compound found in the leaves of the traditional Chinese medicine plant Ginkgo biloba , which has been shown to have a variety of pharmacological functions . However , the role of GB in Manganese ( Mn ) -induced apoptosis and autophagy in neuronal cells remains poorly understood . The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of GB on Mn-induced apoptosis and autophagy in N27 cells and further elucidate the mechanism of its protective effects . N27 cells were exposed to MnCl , GB , mTOR activator , mTOR inhibitor , and autophagy inhibitor , respectively . Cell viability and cytotoxicity were monitored by CCK8 and LDH kits , DA and TH by ELISA , apoptosis by flow cytometry and TUNEL staining , autophagy by MDC staining and mCherry-GFP-LC3B transfection , and autophagy and apoptosis-related proteins by WB . Furthermore , the lentiviral vector was adopted to construct Beclin-1 gene overexpression and knockdown models , and CO-IP was employed to detect the interaction between Beclin-1 and BCL- After MnCl treatment of N27 cells , cell viability , enhanced apoptosis and autophagy , and inhibited mTOR signalling pathway . Addition of GB to Mn-stained cells was found to effectively alleviate apoptosis and autophagy , particularly , the optimized effect was realized when GB was combined with mTOR activator . The mTOR inhibitor Rapamycin and autophagy inhibitor Bafilomycin A1 could reverse the efficacy of GB ; knockdown of Beclin-1 could alleviate MnCl-induced apoptosis and autophagy-related molecular indices , whereas Beclin-1 overexpression demonstrated the opposite way . It was observed in this study that Mn-induced apoptosis and autophagy in N27 cells were Beclin-1-dependent ; GB could mitigate the apoptosis and autophagy by activating the mTOR signalling pathway .
BACKGROUND : Asthma has widespread prevalence and can affect the lives of children , adolescents , and adults . While methyltransferase-like 3 ( METTL3 ) and translocase of inner mitochondrial membrane domain-containing protein 1 ( TIMMDC1 ) have been associated with various diseases , however , the role of METTL3 and TIMMDC1 in asthma mechanisms is still unclear . METHODS : The mRNA and protein expression were examined using qRT-PCR and western blot . EdU and transwell assay were employed to examine the cell proliferation and invasion . The ability of apoptosis was analyzed using flow cytometry and qRT-PCR . The activation of M2 macrophages was evaluated via flow cytometry and qRT-PCR . IL-13 level was tested via ELISA assay . The methylation site of METTL3 was predicted using SRAMP sites . Me-RIP assay was used to analyze the methylation of METTL The binding site between methyltransferase METTL3 and TIMMDC1 was predicted by RBP suit , and the interaction between METTL3 and TIMMDC1 was confirmed through RIP . RESULTS : The TIMMDC1 levels were increased in asthma , and TIMMDC1 promoted PDGF-BB-induced human airway smooth muscle cells ( ASMCs ) proliferation , migration , and M2 macrophage polarization . Furthermore , METTL3 inhibited TIMMDC1 expression via mediating m6A methylation . Besides , up-regulated METTL3 suppressed PDGF-BB-stimulated ASMCs proliferation , migration , and M2 macrophage polarization . Ultimately , METTL3 repressed PDGF-BB-induced ASMCs procession by inhibiting the TIMMDC1 expression . CONCLUSIONS : The m6A methyltransferase METTL3 suppressed the procession of PDGF-BB-induced ASMCs by inhibiting the TIMMDC1 expression . Collectively , this study might provide novel insights for the treatment of asthma .
Necroptosis is a highly regulated form of cell death . Mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein ( MLKL ) serves as its central effector and plays a critical role in various physiological and pathological processes . Given its close association with multiple diseases , MLKL has emerged as a promising therapeutic target . This review highlights recent advances in the development of necroptosis inhibitors and degraders targeting MLKL . The optimization of active compounds , structural modifications , and the applications of proteolysis-targeting chimeras ( PROTACs ) are emphasized . Furthermore , this study systematically evaluates the structural characteristics and biological activities of these compounds , thereby providing critical insights to inform future investigations and pharmaceutical development within this field .
Salmonella Typhimurium ( S . Typhimurium ) is a major contributor responsible for food contamination and foodborne illnesses . In this study , the antibacterial activity of natural compound carvacrol ( CAR ) against S . Typhimurium were evaluated , and the combined inhibitory effects of CAR and blue light-405 nm ( BL-405 nm ) were also assessed for chicken meat preservation . CAR showed efficient antibacterial activity with a minimal inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) at 5 mg/mL . CAR at 2MIC significantly compromised bacterial membrane integrity , resulting in intracellular content leakage . The combined effect of CAR and BL-405 nm achieved a remarkable 62 log CFU/mL reduction in S . Typhimurium viability . The antibacterial mechanism investigations demonstrated that BL-405 nm and CAR triggered the cell oxidative stress by producing highly reactive oxygen species , such as reactive hydroxyl radicals ( OH ) , leading to cellular destruction and ultimately resulting in cell death . In practical application test , CAR combined with BL-405 nm treatment effectively extended chicken meat shelf life by maintaining moisture content , stabilizing pH , preserving color and texture , and inhibiting microbial growth and lipid oxidation . The study provided novel insights into the antibacterial mechanisms of CAR combined with BL-405 nm against S . Typhimurium , which could offer a new strategy for extending the shelf life of poultry meat .
The innate hypoxic and antioxidant defendant microenvironment are the main obstacles for improving reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) based therapeutic efficacy against cancer . Herein , bismuth tungstate ( BWO ) nanoparticles ( NPs ) were fabricated for ultrasound activated hydroxyl radical ( OH* ) production through being reacted with water in an oxygen-independent manner due to their more positive potential of valent band position than that of OH* generation . For relieving antioxidant defense , BWOST NPs were designed through loading L-buthionine sulfoximine into hollow BWO NPs to inhibit the synthesis of glutathione ( GSH ) , and coating pH-responsive tannic acid-Fe complex on the surface to prevent drug leakage . Both in vitro and in vivo assessments demonstrated that BWOST NPs could effectively lower intracellular GSH levels , inducing apoptosis of cancer cells and eliminating tumors . Therefore , BWOST NPs showed an amplified sonodynamic therapy efficacy through lower antioxidant defense and oxygen-independent OH* generation , which provided an effective strategy for improving ROS based cancer therapy .
Nonsense-mediated RNA decay ( NMD ) is a highly selective and conserved RNA turnover pathway . The discovery that NMD is not only a quality control pathway that degrades aberrant mRNAs but also degrades subsets of normal mRNAs has led to the hypothesis that NMD influences and controls normal biological events . In this review , we lay out the support for this hypothesis , with a focus on NMD ' s roles in the nervous system . Studies have demonstrated roles for NMD in several aspects of nervous system development , including neural cell generation and differentiation . Studies in mice have provided evidence that NMD inhibits neural inflammation and promotes mature neuron functions , including dendritic spine maturation and synaptic plasticity , providing a potential explanation for why NMD deficiency leads to cognitive and behavioral dysfunction in mice and humans .
Ceiling culture-derived preadipocytes ( ccdPAs ) are fibroblast-like cells believed to originate from mature adipocytes after the loss of lipid droplets . Unlike adipose-derived stem cells ( ASCs ) , which are heterogeneous , ccdPAs are considered a more homogeneous population . However , their response to adipogenic differentiation stimuli at the single-cell level has not been fully characterized . In this study , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) and epigenetic analyses to investigate early transcriptomic changes following adipogenic induction in ASCs and ccdPAs . scRNA-seq revealed that , in addition to preadipocytes/adipocytes , a substantial population of regulatory or structural cells , characterized by the expression of genes associated with extracellular matrix organization , structural support , and cell-cell interactions , such as F3 and MGP , emerged in both ASCs and ccdPAs . Notably , ATOH8 , a transcription factor with limited prior characterization in adipogenesis , showed markedly higher expression in ccdPAs than in ASCs . This was supported by epigenetic analyses demonstrating lower CpG methylation and higher H3K4me3 levels at the ATOH8 locus in ccdPAs . Our findings suggest that adipogenic induction of ccdPAs generates diverse cell populations . This study provides the first single-cell level insight into the adipogenic response of primary cultured human ccdPAs .
Chronic liver injury results in fibrosis and ultimately progresses to cirrhosis . Delta-like 1 ( DLK1 ) has been implicated in the activation of myofibroblasts derived from hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) in the context of liver injury ; however , the specific cellular origins of DLK1 remain a subject of debate . In this study , we demonstrate that DLK1 originating from HSCs is not essential for liver fibrosis resulting from chemical injury . The Dlk1 gene was expressed at comparable levels in primary hepatocytes and HSCs isolated from normal adult mice . Following liver injury induced by carbon tetrachloride ( CCl ) intoxication , Dlk1 expression was markedly upregulated alongside the myofibroblast marker Pdgfrbeta , alpha-SMA , and collagen genes in the liver . Conditional deletion of the Dlk1 gene in HSCs via Pdgfrb-Cre-mediated recombination did not significantly alter Dlk1 expression levels in either normal or injured whole liver . Importantly , the absence of Dlk1 in HSCs did not affect the elevation of plasma transaminases , hepatocyte proliferation , or Pdgfrbeta activation during CCl-induced acute liver injury . Moreover , during chronic liver injury and fibrosis , the loss of Dlk1 in HSCs did not influence HSCs activation , collagen deposition , or the expression of collagen genes ( Col1a , Col3a ) . Collectively , our findings suggest that HSC-derived DLK1 is not critical for the activation of myofibroblasts and liver fibrosis .
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) is an aggressive malignancy with notable clinical challenges , necessitating the search for innovative therapeutic strategies . FB-15 , a derivative incorporating flavonoid and benzimidazole structures , has demonstrated significant anti-tumor activity in prior research . However , its effects on NPC remain unexplored . In this research , we explored the anti-cancer potential of FB-15 in NPC and elucidated its molecular mechanisms . Our results , based on CCK-8 assays , colony formation assays , EdU staining , cell cycle analysis , wound healing and Transwell assays , as well as Western blotting , demonstrated that FB-15 markedly inhibited NPC cell proliferation , migration , and invasion , and induced G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest . Transcriptome sequencing and KEGG pathway analysis suggested that FB-15 exerts its anti-cancer activities primarily by suppressing the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway , a conclusion reinforced by Western blot analysis showing reduced phosphorylation levels of PI3K and Akt proteins . Rescue experiments further confirmed the involvement of this pathway : the PI3K-Akt activator 740 Y-P partially reversed the inhibitory effects of FB-15 in 5-8F cells , whereas co-treatment with the PI3K-Akt inhibitor MK-2206 and FB-15 in HK1 cells did not produce additive effects compared to MK-2206 alone . These findings support the notion that FB-15 exerts its anti-tumor effects primarily through inhibition of the PI3K-Akt signaling axis . Animal studies demonstrated that FB-15 significantly suppressed the growth of subcutaneous NPC tumors in nude mice while maintaining stable body weight . Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed that FB-15 downregulated Ki67 and Vimentin expression while upregulating the epithelial marker E-cadherin , suggesting its role in inhibiting epithelial-mesenchymal transition . These results highlight FB-15 as a potential therapeutic agent for NPC , underscoring its potential clinical application as a monotherapy or in combination with existing treatments .
Duchenne muscular dystrophy ( DMD ) is a genetic disease , with no curative therapy , and is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction in skeletal muscle . Thus , mitochondrial treatment is a potential therapy for DMD . However , few studies have reported on such treatments because of the difficulty of drug delivery to mitochondria . Here , we used MITO-Porter to deliver coenzyme Q to the mitochondria of primary skeletal muscle cells isolated from DMD model rats . Our results show the therapeutic potential of mitochondrial activation for DMD .
Preeminent human existence in space raises concerns about bone health due to the effect of microgravity on bone tissue degeneration . Space experiments pose logistical challenges , but ground-based research using microgravity simulation provides information about bone loss mechanisms . This review compiles and evaluates data from astronaut , animal , and cellular experiments , emphasizing microgravity-induced skeletal deconditioning . These findings contribute to creating treatment approaches for preventing bone loss risks in space and potentially on Earth . Astronauts experience notable bone loss , up to 1 %-2 % per month in a gravity-less environment , predominantly influencing weight-bearing bones . These necessitate finding efficient treatment approaches for preventing bone loss risks in space and potentially on Earth . There is a significant need to investigate microgravity ' s impact on various bone compartments and skeletal recovery processes . The current review explores the stages of bone remodeling and the fundamental causes of bone loss in microgravity , including effects on osteoblasts , osteocytes , osteoclasts , hematopoietic stem cells , and bone marrow stromal cells , as well as the impact on calcium levels . The article also explores various treatment options , including general management , recent therapies , supportive therapies , and emerging therapies such as BP-NELL-PEG , melatonin , calcitonin , and molecular therapies , highlighting their therapeutic potential against microgravity-induced bone loss .
Neuroglobin ( Ngb ) induction offers a promising strategy for mitigating traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) damage due to its intrinsic antioxidant properties and capacity to alleviate oxidative stress . In this study , we employed high-throughput bioinformatics analysis to identify specific compounds that modulate Ngb-related mechanisms , followed by in vitro evaluation of their effects in astrocyte cultures . Among the compounds screened , A1 and A4 emerged as the most potent Ngb inducers . Immunocytochemistry revealed that A1 significantly increased Ngb intensity by 22 % , while A4 enhanced it by 25 % . Additionally , western blot analysis demonstrated that A1 treatment resulted in a threefold increase in Ngb expression compared to controls . Both compounds also improved cell viability , with A1 increasing viability by 8 % and A4 by 25 % relative to untreated controls . Furthermore , our results indicate that these compounds regulate mitochondrial function , enhancing cellular respiration , and potentially reducing energy demand under basal conditions . The complex interactions between Ngb and mitochondrial components , along with their role in various cellular signalling pathways , highlights the need for further research to fully elucidate Ngb ' s mechanisms of action . In conclusion , compounds A1 and A4 are promising candidates for developing innovative neuroprotective therapies , warranting ongoing exploration of their therapeutic implications .
In Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , the balance of T cell response in the brain is dysregulated due to increase of T-helper 1 ( Th1 ) and Th17 over Th2 response . Considering the link between local and systemic immune response , it is important to modulate brain pattern of T cell in harmony with the systemic immune system . Some studies also attempted to rejuvenate thymus which is affected in AD . Based on immunologic properties of sperm , previous studies demonstrated significant therapeutic effects of sperm head on the brain AD animal models . In this study , pattern of T cell response was determined locally in the brain and systemically in the cervical lymph nodes , and spleen . Thymus health status was also evaluated using forkhead box N1 ( FOXN1 ) . The results were compared between control and sperm head-treated AD model animals . In the brain , cervical lymph nodes , and spleen , treatment with sperm head significantly decreased interferon-gamma ( IFN-gamma ) along with interleukin-17 ( IL-17 ) and increased IL-4 , representative of Th1 , Th17 , and Th2 , respectively . Surprisingly , in the sperm head-treated AD model animals , significant decrease was observed in regulatory T cells ( Treg ) , represented by cluster of designation 4 ( CD4 ) , CD25 , and FOXP3 high expression . Interestingly , sperm head had significant rejuvenation effects on the thymus represented by increase in FOXN The results show that sperm head could deviate chronic inflammation towards a constructive inflammation . Results suggest revision of our attitude towards the inflammation as the results suggest that boosting inflammation can be more efficient than suppressing inflammation for treatment of AD .
Psoriasis ( Pso ) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease involving immune dysregulation and epidermal hyperplasia . Annexin A1 ( ANXA1 ) , a glucocorticoid-regulated protein , and S100A11 are implicated in keratinocyte function , but their roles in Pso remain unclear . This study translationally elucidates the functional role of ANXA1 and S100A11 in Pso by integrating analyses in human and murine skin biopsies and in vitro assays using human keratinocytes . The expression patterns of the ANXA1 and S100A11 in Pso were investigated using an imiquimod ( IMQ ) - induced murine model and human skin biopsies . Furthermore , the in vitro effect of the ANXA1-derived peptide Ac ( - ) ( 5 , 25 , and 50 ng/mL ) on IL-17-stimulated human keratinocytes ( HaCaT cell line ) was evaluated . IMQ-treated mice exhibited hallmark psoriatic features , including epidermal thickening , mast cell degranulation , and elevated IL-23 levels . Immunohistochemical analyses revealed significant upregulation of ANXA1 and S100A11 in psoriatic skin , with coexpression observed in keratinocytes , particularly in superficial epidermal layers . Transcriptomic analysis corroborated these findings , showing elevated ANXA1 and S100A11 expression in psoriatic lesions compared to controls . In HaCaT cells , IL-17 stimulation reduced ANXA1 and S100A11 levels . Treatment with Ac ( - ) at the highest concentrations ( 25 and 50 ng/mL ) significantly reduced viability/metabolism of IL-17-stimulated keratinocytes , while the lowest concentration of Ac ( - ) ( 5 ng/mL ) effectively increased ROS production . In conclusion , ANXA1 and S100A11 are key players in Pso , with their expression and coexpression closely linked to disease pathogenesis . Further studies are warranted to explore the clinical implications of targeting the ANXA1/S100A11 axis in inflammatory skin diseases .
Psoriasis is an immune-mediated inflammatory skin disease involving the activation and regulation of various immune cells . A proportion of psoriasis patients remain unresponsive to conventional therapies or targeted drugs , highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies . In addition , although many conventional immunosuppressants are effective in the treatment of psoriasis , they may cause various side effects . Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM ) represents a potential drug candidate , with a rich history of traditional use and a vast array of pharmacological options . In particular , TCM may serve as an alternative or complementary therapy of psoriasis with potentially less side effects . In this review , we focus on immune cells , including dendritic cells , neutrophils , macrophages , myeloid-derived suppressor cells , Th17 , regulatory T ( Treg ) cells , and gammadelta T cells . We provide an overview of the roles for these immune cells in the pathogenesis of psoriasis and regulatory effects of TCM and its ingredients on them . Additionally , we briefly summarize the clinical research involving treatment of psoriasis with TCM and discuss the existing challenges and limitations in this field .
BACKGROUND : An immune-suppressive tumor microenvironment ( TME ) that encourages tumor growth is a hallmark of gastric cancer ( GC ) , which is implicated in the development , metastasis , and unfavorable prognosis of GC . Acanthopanax senticosus ( Rupr . &Maxim . ) Harms ( AS ) , also called Siberian Ginseng ( Chinese : Ci wu jia ) , is a commonly used traditional Chinese herbal medicine with immune-enhancing , anti-tumor , anti-fatigue , neuroregulatory , blood circulation-improving , and antioxidant properties . Recently , it has also been demonstrated to improve anti-tumor immunity in GC . Eleutheroside A ( EA ) , one of the primary bioactive saponins of AS , has immunoregulatory functions . Given the immunomodulatory and anti-tumor effects of EA , it is crucial to investigate its regulatory impact on the immune landscape of GC . MATERIALS AND METHODS : To determine the effects of EA on immune responses in GC , a subcutaneous GC mouse model was established . Tumor growth , body weight changes , and immune responses in the mice treated with EA were measured . The proportion of CD4 ( + ) T , CD8 ( + ) T , B cells , NK cells , TAMs , DCs and MDSCs in the spleens were analyzed using flow cytometry . MDSCs and CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) T cell infiltration in tumor tissue were analyzed using immunofluorescence . Bulk RNA sequencing ( bulk RNA-seq ) data from the Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) and two single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) datasets ( accession numbers GSE183904 and GSE150290 ) were used to examine changes in MDSCs and T cell infiltration within the TME of GC and to identify MDSCs-related targets . Network pharmacology analysis , protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network analysis , dynamics simulations , molecular docking and surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) were applied to explore the potential mechanisms underlying EA ' s intervention in MDSCs . Flow cytometry , qPCR , and western blotting and Seahorse assays were applied for analyzing MDSCs isolated from in vivo and in vitro-induced conditions , aiming to delineate the mechanism of EA on MDSCs glycolysis and immunosuppressive functions mediated by the PI3K/AKT1/mTOR signaling pathway . RESULTS : In vivo , EA treatment effectively suppressed GC tumor growth and progression in mice , reducing the prevalence of MDSCs and increasing CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) T cell levels . In vitro , EA not only decreased the frequency of MDSCs but also alleviated their immune-suppressing capabilities on CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) T cells . Network pharmacology , coupled with scRNA-seq analysis , dynamic simulations , and molecular docking studies , suggested that EA might modulate the PI3K/AKT1/mTOR signaling pathway to influence glycolysis in MDSCs . Surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) analysis confirmed that EA directly interacts with AKT Further validation experiments revealed that in the GC TME , EA treatment decreased the expression of p-PI3K , p-AKT1 , p-mTOR , HIF1alpha , as well as glycolytic genes and glycolytic activity in MDSCs . Additionally , EA led to the downregulation of p-STAT3 and its downstream immunosuppressive factors within these cells . Restoring AKT1 activation could reverse the inhibitory effects of EA on MDSCs glycolysis and the downregulation of immunosuppressive molecules . Moreover , HIF-1alpha inhibition abolished EA ' s inhibitory effects on MDSCs . CONCLUSION : EA can attenuate the immune-suppressive capacity of MDSCs in GC by inhibiting the PI3K/AKT1/mTOR pathway and suppressing HIF-1alpha-mediated glycolysis , thereby offering a novel therapeutic approach to targeting the immune-suppressive microenvironment in GC .
The influenza split vaccine ( ISV ) is generally administered without adjuvant via intra-muscular ( i . m . ) or intranasal route . Research has demonstrated that SV alone exhibits no capacity to elicit a Th1 ( T helper-1 ) response and cellular immunity represented by cytotoxic T lymphocytes ( CTL ) induction . This finding is consistent with the observation that SV merely up-regulates antibody ( Ab ) production in the pre-disposed population . This tendency is reproduced in the SV model in conjunction with conventional adjuvants , including alum or squalene . These adjuvants amplify the Th2 shift , consequently stimulating Th2-dependent Ab production in mice . Conventional adjuvants , when employed with SV in animal studies , demonstrate a limited capacity to stimulate cellular immune activation . The present study aims to demonstrate the efficacy of a Th1-inducing adjuvant , ARNAX , in promoting antigen-presenting DC and subsequent Ag-specific CTL proliferation , culminating in Th1 polarization . Consequently , the synthesis of the two effectors , CTL and Ab , is augmented by the incorporation of ARNAX in SV . The enhanced SV-mediated protective immunity may be further augmented by the induction of antigen-specific CTL and the unique profile of Th1-mediated Ab production .
M1-like tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) have been put forth as a critical component in the advancement of cancer biology , including oncogenesis , development , invasion , metastasis , and the formation of tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . Nevertheless , there has been a paucity of research examining the functions and associated molecular mechanisms of the M1-like TAMs in ovarian cancer ( OC ) . The objective of this study is twofold : first , to gain a deeper understanding of the positive role of M1-like TAMs in OC ; and second , to identify reliable biomarkers to stratify the risk of disease progression in OC patients via integrated analyses . Leveraging combined single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) and bulk transcriptomic data , we systematically identified M1 macrophage-associated molecules and established their prognostic significance in OC . CXCL11 was pinpointed as the central biomarker , with its protective role further validated through bioinformatics analyses and in vitro functional assays . Collectively , our findings advance the understanding of M1 macrophage-related molecular networks in OC and reveal CXCL11 as a dual-functional entity : a favorable prognostic biomarker and a positive regulatory molecule of M1 polarization via the JAK2-STAT1 pathway . These insights position CXCL11 as a promising therapeutic target and prognostic indicator for OC , offering a new perspective for the immunotherapy of OC .
Intrauterine adhesion ( IUA ) is characterized by endometrial fibrosis due to basal layer injury , leading to hypomenorrhea , recurrent abortions , and infertility , with significant clinical implications . Maintaining homeostasis in the endometrial epithelium is crucial for its normal physiological functions . Epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) in endometrial epithelial cells is a key mechanism driving endometrial fibrosis in IUA . Accumulating evidences substantiate the pivotal role of the cGAS-STING pathway in inflammatory fibrotic diseases . In this study , we identified endometrial epithelium-specific activation of the cGAS-STING pathway as a driver of IUA through mtDNA leakage-induced EMT , a previously unreported mechanism in reproductive fibrosis . We quantitatively demonstrated cGAS-STING pathway activation in endometrial tissues from 20 IUA patients compared to 20 normal controls . Pharmacological inhibition of STING with C-176 ( 10 muM ) significantly reduced TGF-beta1-induced EMT markers : N-cadherin ( 37 +/- 08-fold , p = 0044 ) and alpha-SMA ( 34 +/- 13-fold , p = 0047 ) , while restoring E-cadherin ( 27 +/- 05-fold , p = 0016 ) . Conversely , STING activation by 2 ' , 3 ' ' -cGAMP ( 10 muM ) exacerbated EMT , increasing N-cadherin ( 25 +/- 01-fold , p = 0377 ) and alpha-SMA ( 79 +/- 28-fold , p = 0007 ) . TGF-beta1 triggered mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) leakage into the cytoplasm , as evidenced by TOMM20/dsDNA co-localization ( 76 % reduction with VDAC1 inhibitor VBIT-4 , p = 0077 ) , activating cGAS-STING signaling , reflected by upregulated cGAS ( 15 +/- 24-fold , p = 0093 ) , STING ( 37 +/- 46-fold , p = 0007 ) , and p-IRF3 ( 4 +/- 04 , p = 0007 ) in an IUA cell model . Administration of C-176 reduced endometrial fibrosis by 73 % ( p < 0001 ) , suppressing collagen I ( 75 % , p < 0001 ) , alpha-SMA ( 74 % , p = 0015 ) , and N-cadherin ( 83 % , p < 0001 ) , while increasing E-cadherin expression ( 44 +/- 44-fold , p = 0007 ) . It also reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta ( mRNA : 08 +/- 69-fold , p = 0047 ; protein : 08 ng/g , p = 0019 ) and IL-6 ( mRNA : 90 +/- 05-fold , p < 0001 ; protein : 46 +/- 50 pg/g , p = 0215 ) . In contrast , 2 ' , 3 ' ' -cGAMP increased fibrosis by 50 % ( p = 0001 ) and amplified IL-1beta ( mRNA : 69 +/- 45-fold , p < 0001 ; protein : 20 +/- 02 ng/g , p < 0001 ) and IL-6 ( mRNA : 52 +/- 12-fold , p < 0001 ; protein : 95 +/- 16 pg/g , p < 0001 ) . These findings suggest that the mtDNA-cGAS-STING axis plays a critical role in IUA development , highlighting potential therapeutic targets for intervention .
The preservation of fresh fruits and vegetables ( F&V ) is important to achieve food and nutritional security , reduce food loss , and boost global trade and economic growth . To understand the gamma-Aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) impact on F&V quality , this study conducted a meta-analysis of 30 articles ( 2020-2024 ) . GABA was found to effectively preserve F&V quality by regulating total soluble solids ( TSS ) , delaying firmness loss , and minimizing browning , microbial spoilage , and chilling injury . These benefits stem from GABA ' s action on key metabolic pathways , including ethylene , cell wall , antioxidant , ascorbate-glutathione , GABA , reactive species , phenylpropanoid , polyamine , and energy regulation . Frequency analysis identified effective trends in GABA research : immersion was preferred and best application method with a coverage of 66 % ; optimal GABA dosages were 1 mM-10 mM with a coverage of 33 % ; optimal treatment exposure times were 5-15 min with a coverage of 33 % ; and optimal storage temperatures of treated F&V were 2 degrees C-4 degrees C with a coverage of 60 % . The challenges in GABA research include its inconsistent impact across different types of produce , its dual effects on TSS regulation ( with both increasing and decreasing trends ) , and the lack of structured policies for application in the F&V sector . Future research should explore GABA ' s mechanisms using omics approaches , enhance delivery through nanotechnology or 3D printing , and focus on its integration into commercial postharvest practices .
Gliadin induces direct intestinal epithelial damage due to the interaction between the intestinal epithelium and gliadin peptides with particular self-assembly properties after digestion . This study explored if and how deamidation affected intestinal epithelial damage . The results demonstrated the alteration of self-assembly that when the degree of deamidation ( DD ) was less than 20 % , the decrease of peptide length and increase of polarity were the main reasons for the reduction of particle size and spherical nanoparticles . As DD was 26 % , the increase of negative charges was responsible for size increase and shape alteration to linear strands due to the electrostatic attraction . These alterations of self-assembly behaviors facilitated mucus permeation . Deamidated gliadin peptides inhibited the Caco-2 cell damage due to the weakened interaction with the cell membrane . The work demonstrated how deamidation modified the gliadin peptides after digestion in minimizing intestinal epithelial damage , ensuring the safety of deamidation as a modification method .
Lycium barbarum leaf ( LBL ) is rich in phenolic compounds ; however , its industrial utilization remains limited due to suboptimal extraction methods . This study employed ultrasound-assisted extraction ( UAE ) in conjunction with deep eutectic solvents ( DESs ) to extract LBL phenolics . Among eleven tested DESs , choline chloride-lactic acid ( ChCl-LA ) demonstrated the highest extraction efficiency . A phenolic yield of 62 mg/g was achieved under the optimized conditions . The obtained LBL extract ( LLE ) was further enriched using screened XAD7HP resin . The enriched LLE contained 15 main phenolics . The phenolic content , antioxidant activity , and alpha-glucosidase inhibition rate of LLE generally decreased by 95-17 % after in vitro digestion . LLE ( 1 mg/mL ) significantly alleviated ethanol-induced oxidative damage in AML-12 cells , elevating their survival rate from 18 % to 56 % . To summarize , the LLE can be obtained efficiently and sustainably by the combination of UAE assisted DESs and macroporous resin , which may facilitate the application of LLE in function foods .
Glyphosate , a widely used herbicide in both agricultural and non-agricultural practices , has become pervasive in the environment , leading to significant human and animal exposure . Despite growing evidence of its potential endocrine-disrupting and reproductive toxicity , European regulatory agencies continue to affirm its safety . This study examines the effects of glyphosate on male reproductive health by exposing adult zebrafish to dietary glyphosate at doses within European safety thresholds . After 21 days of exposure , testicular samples were analysed using a combined approach involving transcript analysis , targeted metabolomics and proteomics , epigenetics , as well as immunohistochemistry . At 5 mg/kg body weight ( bw ) /day ( the acceptable daily intake , ADI ) , glyphosate impaired germ cell differentiation and triggered cell-specific changes in histone acetylation within the male germline . Higher exposure levels of 50 mg/kg bw/day ( the no observed adverse effect level , NOAEL ) induced metabolomic and proteomic disruptions linked to impaired steroidogenesis , DNA damage in germ cells , and alterations in testicular architecture , culminating in reduced reproductive capacity . Interestingly , minimal testicular effects observed at 5 mg/kg bw/day highlighted the non-monotonic dose-response relationship to glyphosate . These findings unveil critical molecular and cellular disruptions caused by glyphosate and emphasize its potential reproductive risks , even at doses considered " safe " by regulatory standards . This research contributes to ongoing discussions surrounding sustainable agricultural practices and public health policies , calling for a re-evaluation of glyphosate safety thresholds .
Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( IPF ) is a progressive interstitial lung disease with high mortality and limited treatment options . Targeting multiple kinase-driven pathological processes offers a promising strategy . Using epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) phenotypic screening , we optimized a series of o-aminopyridinyl alkynyl compounds derived from CSF-1R relatively selective inhibitor , compound 1 , through a structure-activity relationship ( SAR ) study , integrating liver and kidney cytotoxicity evaluations . Compound 22 , emerged as the potent antifibrotic candidate , exhibiting low cytotoxic effects against human kidney ( HEK293 ) and hepatocyte ( L02 ) cell lines , and minimal hERG inhibition . In addition , 22 showed significant inhibition against other IPF-related processes , including fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition ( FMT ) -driven fibrosis in both human fetal lung fibroblasts cell line ( HFL1 ) and primary human lung fibroblasts ( HLFs ) , as well as pro-fibrotic M2 polarization . In vivo , compound 22 exhibited the acceptable PK properties and low toxicity profiles . In addition , oral administration of 22 demonstrated superior anti-fibrotic efficacy compared to Nintedanib , significantly attenuating bleomycin-induced lung fibrosis , reducing inflammation and pro-fibrotic M2-associated cytokine levels , and improving lung function . Preliminary kinase profiling indicates that compound 22 likely targets CSF-1R , PDGFR-alpha and Src family kinases to inhibit IPF progression , while sparing VEGFRs , FGFRs and Abl to minimize off-target toxicity commonly associated with multi-kinase inhibitor treatment . These findings highlight the advantages and therapeutic potential of a multi-kinase targeting strategy , enabling selective inhibition key IPF-associated kinases to develop more effective and safer anti-IPF agents .
PURPOSE : This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to identify and quantify the risk factors associated with acute kidney injury ( AKI ) in patients with traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) . METHODS : PubMed , Embase , and Web of Science were systematically searched for articles published up to October Observational studies published in English that reported on risk factors for AKI in TBI patients were included . Data on AKI incidence and risk factors were extracted . A meta-analysis was conducted using a random-effects model when heterogeneity I > 50 % and a fixed-effects model when I < 50 % . Risk of bias for studies was assessed using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale ( NOS ) . Certainty of evidence was evaluated using the GRADE approach . RESULTS : Twenty studies involving 13 , 115 TBI patients were included in the meta-analysis . The pooled incidence of AKI after TBI was 19 % ( 95 % CI 16-23 ) . Male gender ( odds ratio ( OR ) 43 , 95 % CI 21-70 ; I 0 % ) , diabetes ( OR 59 , 95 % CI 74-42 ; I 0 % ) , Glasgow Coma Scale ( GCS ) ( mean difference ( MD ) -48 , 95 % CI -74 , -23 ; I 38 % ) , GCS </= 8 at admission ( OR 56 , 95 % CI 28-90 ; I 0 % ) , Simplified Acute Physiology Score II ( SAPS II ) score ( MD 65 , 69-61 ; I 56 % ) , serum creatinine level at admission ( MD 17 , 95 % CI 82-51 ; I 93 % ) , hemoglobin ( MD -82 , 95 % CI -72 , -92 ; I 79 % ) , glucose ( MD 42 , 95 % CI 64-20 ; I 0 % ) , the use of mannitol ( OR 14 , 95 % CI 08-25 ; I 74 % ) , vancomycin ( OR 75 , 95 % CI 35-27 ; I 0 % ) and red blood cell transfusion ( OR 35 , 95 % CI 86-04 ; I 59 % ) increased the risk for AKI . CONCLUSION : These findings highlighted the critical need for proactive surveillance of these risk factors in clinical practice , enabling the development of prediction models to identify TBI patients at high risk of AKI .
Non-small cell lung carcinoma ( NSCLC ) is a major cause of cancer mortality . High expression of the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition transcription factor ( EMT-TF ) Twist1 is strongly associated with metastatic cancers and with treatment resistance . Twist1 can also upregulate O-GlcNAcylation to suppress fail-safe programs such as Kras ( G12D ) oncogene-induced senescence ( OIS ) that accelerates NSCLC tumorigenesis . We wanted to decipher the critical domains and transcriptional targets required for Twist1 acceleration of lung tumorigenicity . We created a novel genetically-engineered mouse model for autochthonous lung cancer through lung epithelial expression of Kras ( G12D ) oncogene ( CR ) concomitantly with Twist1 ( wt ) ( CRT ) or a Twist1 ( F191G ) transactivation-deficient mutant ( CRF191G ) . Compared to CR and CRF191G , CRT mice had shorter tumor-free survival and more aggressive tumors histologically . CRT lung tumors also showed higher proliferation and lower cell-cycle arrest suggesting that the Twist1 transactivation-domain is important for OIS suppression . Supporting these data , we observed in non-cancer human bronchial epithelial cells ( HBECs ) that the co-expression of human TWIST1 ( wt ) enhanced tumorigenic/invasive programs and could suppress HRas ( G12V ) -induced senescence while co-expressing TWIST1 ( F187G ) transactivation-deficient mutant could not . TWIST1 ( wt ) co-expression with HRas ( G12V ) in HBECs differentially modulated MYC downstream transcriptional programs . Finally , OIS induction in HBECHRas ( G12V ) -TWIST1 ( wt ) was rescued by O-GlcNAcylation inhibition or by treatment with a novel MYC inhibitor MYCi975 or by MYC knockdown . Altogether , these results indicate that the Twist1 transactivation domain is required for Twist1-dependent acceleration of lung tumorigenesis via MYC and nominate MYCi975 as a means to activate latent OIS programs . MYC targeting strategies could limit pro-tumorigenic programs and serve as a therapeutic for TWIST1-overexpressing NSCLCs .
INTRODUCTION : Linitis Plastica ( LP ) is a rare condition characterized by diffuse infiltration of the submucosal and muscularis propria layers of a hollow organ by malignant cells . PRESENTATION OF CASE : Three patients underwent colonoscopy , which revealed rectal stenosis with preserved mucosa . CT and MRI demonstrated circumferential thickening of the rectal wall . Histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses confirmed submucosal infiltration by malignant cells . All three patients received chemotherapy but died due to disease progression . DISCUSSION : Symptoms of rectal LP are nonspecific . Rectal examination typically reveals a concentric , rigid stricture . Colonoscopy shows circumferential luminal narrowing with intact mucosa . Imaging studies detect circumferential rectal wall thickening primarily affecting the submucosa . A definitive diagnosis requires histological analysis , but endoscopic biopsies are often non-diagnostic . Given the typically late-stage diagnosis and lack of effective treatments , chemotherapy is the mainstay , with surgery reserved for complications . Prognosis remains poor . CONCLUSION : The diagnosis and management of rectal LP present significant challenges due to its rarity , nonspecific endoscopic findings , and frequently inconclusive biopsies .
INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE : Osteosarcoma of the proximal tibia presents a significant challenge in pediatric orthopedic oncology , particularly concerning limb salvage and functional outcomes . Traditional management often involves endoprosthetic reconstruction , which can lead to complications and revisions , especially in young patients . CASE PRESENTATION : We report the case of a 16-year-old male of Asian Sundanese ethnicity presenting with a grade 3 conventional osteosarcoma of the right proximal tibia . Following neoadjuvant chemotherapy per the EURAMOS protocol , the patient underwent a novel limb-sparing procedure combining patella chevron osteotomy , pedicle cryotherapy , and bone-on-polyethylene reconstruction . This approach was chosen to preserve the extensor mechanism , minimize recurrence through in-situ devitalization , and avoid costly endoprostheses while ensuring joint stability . The chevron osteotomy preserved the patella and extensor function , crucial for postoperative mobility . Pedicle cryotherapy allowed effective tumor cell devitalization while conserving native bone stock . Bone-on-polyethylene reconstruction offered a durable , cost-effective alternative suitable for skeletally immature patients . Post-operatively , the patient demonstrated satisfactory healing and joint stability . Histopathology confirmed clear resection margins . CLINICAL DISCUSSION : Chemotherapy resumed two weeks post-surgery . At 12-month follow-up , the patient remained recurrence-free , with good functional outcomes and minimal limb length discrepancy . This technique highlights a promising alternative to traditional endoprosthetic reconstruction in pediatric patients . CONCLUSION : This case report presents a novel surgical approach for proximal tibial osteosarcoma in a pediatric patient . The technique-combining patella chevron osteotomy , pedicle cryotherapy , and bone-on-polyethylene reconstruction-demonstrated excellent oncologic control , functional preservation , and growth potential . It may offer improved long-term outcomes and reduce revision surgery rates , particularly in resource-limited settings .
Neoadjuvant immunotherapy has shown impressive outcomes in treating non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) recently due to advancements in immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) research . Neoadjuvant immunotherapy can lower the tumor load , raise the complete surgical ( R0 ) resection rate , and improve clinical outcomes by alleviating the immune system repression caused by tumor cells . This review provides a comprehensive evaluation of neoadjuvant immunotherapy in NSCLC , focusing on : its safety and efficacy profiles , the most recent clinical trial evidence , and critical unresolved challenges including predictive biomarker development , management of driver mutation-positive patients , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) comorbidity considerations , and its application in stage III-IVA ( oligometastatic ) disease . Furthermore , we explore future research directions to optimize neoadjuvant immunotherapy approaches for resectable NSCLC , aiming to guide clinical practice and investigation .
BACKGROUND : Advanced-stage non-small cell lung cancer treatment has evolved with the introduction of molecularly targeted therapy , immunotherapy and combination frontline therapies . Despite these advancements , most patients experience treatment failure , resulting in poor prognosis characterized by low median progression-free survival ( PFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) . Second-line chemotherapy has demonstrated minimally improved survival compared to best supportive care . Exploring new mechanisms to enhance treatment response in this patient population is critical . OBJECTIVE : This retrospective study aims to assess if there is survival benefit in a cohort of patients with stage IV lung cancer who have failed previous systemic therapy treated with pulsed electrical fields ( PEF ) therapy compared to a propensity-matched cohort . METHODS : A retrospective review of patients treated with PEF at three academic institutions from January 1 , 2023 , to July 1 , 2024 , yielded 41 patients with progressive stage IV non-small cell lung cancer . Tumor response was evaluated by RECIST 1 criteria . A propensity matched cohort of 50 patients with advanced NSCLC undergoing systemic therapy was identified . Statistical analyses , including Kaplan-Meier survival estimates and Hazard ratios , were conducted . RESULTS : The PEF-treated cohort exhibited a 1-year PFS of 2 % and OS of 3 % . In contrast , the matched cohort demonstrated a 1-year PFS of 8 % and OS of 33 % . The hazard ratio for PFS in the PEF group was 66 ( p < 0001 ) and for OS was 5 ( p = 0007 ) , indicating a significant survival advantage for patients receiving PEF . CONCLUSION : This study suggests that PEF therapy may be associated with significantly improved PFS and OS in patients with progressive stage IV non-small cell lung cancer compared to the matched cohort . Prospective controlled studies are required to confirm these preliminary findings , to better understand the mechanism of action of PEF , and to identify which patient populations would best benefit from this therapy .
BACKGROUND : Combined chemotherapy with nivolumab and ipilimumab ( NIC ) improves survival outcomes in treatment-naive patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . However , these patients have a higher incidence of treatment-related deaths ( TRDs ) , especially due to NIC . This study aimed to devise a risk stratification score for selecting patients with lower or higher TRD risk . METHODS : A dataset from the JCOG2007 study was used , which compared NIC with combined chemotherapy with pembrolizumab ( PC ) . The TRD score was built from an adaptive LASSO regression analysis . RESULTS : The JCOG2007 study randomly assigned 295 patients to the PC ( n = 147 ) and NIC ( n = 148 ) arms , respectively . The TRD score was constructed for 124 patients who underwent NIC and had no missing covariates . The dichotomized TRD score was built and stratified all treated 290 ( all enrolled 295 ) patients into 92 high-risk and 198 low-risk patients . No apparent differences in TRD incidence were observed in low-risk patients ( 2 % [0/92] with PC and 8 % [3/106] with NIC ) ; however , this difference was noteworthy in high-risk patients ( 9 % [1/52] with PC and 0 % [8/40] with NIC ) . Of the 295 patients , the hazard ratios for death were 894 ( 553-444 ) in low-risk patients and that was 215 [696-122] in high-risk patients . Worse outcomes in the NIC arm were consistently observed for both immune-related adverse events ( irAEs ) and progression-free survival . CONCLUSIONS : Although further validation studies with external data inside and outside Japan are required , the TRD score is a valuable tool for identifying patients with comparable toxicity-efficacy profiles among PC and NIC regimens .
Inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) involves gastrointestinal inflammation , due to intestinal epithelial barrier destruction caused by excessive immune activation . Conventional cell culture systems do not provide a model system that can recapitulate the complex interactions between epithelial cells , immune cells , and intestinal bacteria . To address this , we developed a microfluidic device that mimics the inflammatory response associated with microbial invasion of the intestinal mucosa . The device consisted of two media channels , an upper and a lower channel , and a porous membrane between these channels on which C2BBe1 intestinal epithelial cells were seeded to form a tight junction layer . Each electrode was placed in contact with both channels to continuously monitor the tight junction state . Fresh medium flow allowed bacterial numbers to be controlled and bacterial toxins to be removed , allowing co-culture of mammalian cells and bacteria . In addition , RAW264 macrophage cells were attached to the bottom of the lower channel . By introducing E . coli into the lower channel , the RAW264 cells were activated and produced TNF-alpha , successfully recapitulating a culture model of inflammation in which the C2BBe1cell tight junction layer was destroyed . The main structure of the device was initially made of polydimethylsiloxane to facilitate its widespread use , but with a view to introducing anaerobic bacteria in the future , a similar phenomenon was successfully reproduced using polystyrene . When TPCA-1 , an IkappaB kinase 2 inhibitor was added into this IBD culture model , the tight junction destruction was significantly suppressed . The results suggest that this IBD culture model also is useful as a screening system for anti-IBD drugs .
OBJECTIVE : Polymyalgia rheumatica ( PMR ) is an inflammatory rheumatic disorder predominantly affecting older adults , characterized by proximal muscle pain and stiffness . The prevalence of PMR in Chinese population is relatively low comparing to European population , resulting in limited research regarding its clinical manifestations and serological characteristics among Chinese patients . We aimed to analyse the features of Chinese patients with PMR and explore the significance of novel inflammatory biomarkers . METHODS : We retrospectively collected the medical data of hospitalized patients diagnosed with PMR at Peking University People ' s Hospital between 1992 and Electronic medical records were reviewed . We analyzed the clinical and laboratory characteristics of patients with PMR , and explored new inflammatory markers . RESULTS : A total of 87 patients were included in the study , with a male-to-female ratio of 1 : The most common clinical manifestation was shoulder girdle pain ( 6 % ) , followed by pelvic girdle pain ( 7 % ) , cervical spine pain ( 2 % ) , morning stiffness ( 3 % ) , and lumbar spine pain ( 2 % ) . Cervical spine pain was more common in female patients than in male patients . 12 out of 87 ( 8 % ) patients with PMR were complicated with giant cell arteritis ( GCA ) . Anorexia was more commonly seen in patients with GCA ( P = 024 ) . IL-6 was the most frequently elevated cytokine and was significantly associated with fever . The systemic immune-inflammation index ( SII ) , platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio ( PLR ) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) were correlated with C-reactive protein ( CRP ) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR ) . CONCLUSION : Shoulder girdle and pelvic girdle pain were the most common manifestations of PMR . 8 % of the patients had concurrent GCA . Elevated levels of IL-6 were significantly correlated with fever , indicating that IL-6 may contribute to the systemic inflammation of PMR . SII , NLR and PLR were positively associated with the levels of ESR and CRP , suggesting that these novel markers are promising inflammatory markers in patients with PMR .
Biopharmaceuticals , particularly monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) , are essential for treating cancer , autoimmune disorders , and infectious diseases . These complex biologics require precise manufacturing and regulatory strategies . Process analytical technology enables the analysis and control of biopharmaceuticals ' manufacturing processes through timely measurements of critical quality and performance attributes , aiming to ensure product quality . The production of high-quality therapeutic mAbs becomes challenging due to the high cost of analytical methods . In this work , a miniaturized approach based on UV-Vis micro-bead injection spectroscopy within a lab-on-valve platform is proposed for the quantitative , label-free determination of therapeutic mAbs , specifically rituximab ( RTX ) , in cell culture supernatants . The sensor is automatically assembled , through computer-controlled , fluidic manipulation of Concanavalin A-Sepharose beads . These beads enable recognition of glycosylated mAbs , facilitating on-column label free optical density measurement at 280 nm . Beads are discarded after each determination , avoiding carrying-over between samples . Key parameters were optimized to enhance sensitivity and repeatability of RTX detection . The method demonstrated good linearity ( 25-50 mg mL ( -1 ) , R > 9970 ) , with a limit of detection of 11 mg mL ( -1 ) . Each determination required 8 min of total analysis and 12 mg of sorbent . When applied to surrogate cell culture supernatants , the mu-BIS-LOV sensor exhibited consistent recovery rates across different dilutions , confirming its suitability for bioprocess monitoring and quality control of biopharmaceuticals . This method offers a simplified , cost-effective alternative to traditional analytical techniques , reducing reagent consumption and eliminating the need for secondary antibodies , offering an efficient solution for quality control in biopharmaceutical production .
BACKGROUND : Neuroinflammation is a critical pathophysiological mechanism of depression . But the sources and processes involved remain unclear . Recent reports suggest that necroptosis with pro-inflammatory properties may facilitate inflammation . Therefore , we investigated the potential role of necroptosis-associated neuroinflammation in depression . METHODS : Depression model mice induced by intraperitoneal injection of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) were treated with RIPK1 inhibitor Necrostatin-1 s ( Nec-1 s , 6 mg/kg ) , RIPK3 inhibitor GSK ' 872 ( 6 mg/kg ) or intracerebroventricular injection of MLKL inhibitor GW806742X ( 5 muL of 200 mumol/L ) . Depressive-like behaviors were assessed using sucrose preference test and tail suspension test . Serum inflammatory cytokines were detected by ELISA , while glial biomarkers were determined by western blots . Hematoxylin & eosin and immunohistochemical staining were utilized to identify morphological characteristics of necroptotic cells in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex . Further , specific molecules involved in necroptotic pathway were measured by immunoblots . RESULTS : Mice treated with LPS exhibited depressive-like behaviors , as well as increased inflammatory cytokines , enhanced MLKL phosphorylation , and decreased cleaved Caspase-8 levels in hippocampus . GSK ' 872 rather than Nec-1 s exhibited significant antidepressant effects . Although necroptosis was present in both the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex , neuroinflammation was mainly manifested in the hippocampus . Additionally , GSK ' 872 restored the elevated levels of IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and HMGB1 in the serum and hippocampus of model mice , and simultaneously ameliorated necroptosis . However , neither GSK ' 872 nor Nec-1 s had sufficient effect on Caspase-8 and microgliosis . Furthermore , intracerebroventricular injection of GW806742X improved depressive-like behavior and neuroinflammation in hippocampus . CONCLUSION : This study provides novel evidence that hippocampal RIPK3-MLKL-dependent necroptosis mediates depressive-like behavior induced by inflammatory stress . During this process , necroptosis may facilitate neuroinflammation by promoting the release of HMGB Interventions targeting this pathway may help treat depression with an inflammatory phenotype .
Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli ( APEC ) , a significant virulence reservoir for human extraintestinal pathogenic E . coli ( ExPEC ) , poses an escalating zoonotic risk through the food chain . Our previous study demonstrated that the poultry-derived strain DE205B shared high genetic similarity with the neonatal meningitis-associated E . coli ( NMEC ) strain RS218 and induced meningitis in a rat model . Here , we further demonstrated that DE205B crossed the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) via a transcellular pathway without compromising barrier integrity . During this process , brain microvascular endothelial cells ( BMECs ) trigger limited RIPK1-independent apoptosis . Mechanistically , caspase-8 activation in BMECs drove the release of proinflammatory mediators , thereby promoting neutrophil recruitment into the cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) . These neutrophils facilitated bacterial clearance through the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps ( NETs ) . In vivo pharmacological inhibition of caspase-8 attenuated the ability of BMECs to recruit neutrophils , exacerbating meningitis progression . These findings suggested that limited apoptosis of BMECs contributed positively to APEC clearance in the brain . Collectively , this study systematically elucidated mechanisms underlying DE205B-mediated BBB invasion and host immune responses , providing insights into its cross-species pathogenic potential and zoonotic implications .
The ecotoxicity of nanoplastics ( NPs ) on marine microalgae has been extensively explored recently , yet the mechanisms driving short-term growth improvement caused by NPs remain poorly understood . In the present study , we observed that a relatively high concentration ( 10 mg/L ) of the green fluorescently labeled fresh polyamide-polymethyl methacrylate polymer blend ( w/w 21 : 4 ) NPs beads ( 200 nm ) significantly enhanced the cell density of Porphyridium cruentum ( 1 % ) by alleviating reactive oxygen species generation , chlorophyll degradation , and photoinhibition . An increase in the sticky bounded exopolysaccharides ( b-EPs ) surrounding P . cruentum surface enhanced NP adsorption within five hours of exposure , with -CH bond in phospholipids/glycolipids and polysaccharides of b-EPs supporting the adsorption to mitigate photoinhibition . Increased free exopolysaccharides ( EPs ) removed inorganic and organic carbon and 48 % of dissolved organic matter ( DOM ) , encapsulating NPs into sediments while cooperating with pH elevation . However , short-term growth promotion resulted in cell shading and phosphorous deficiency after 12 days of cultivation . Consequently , the photosynthesis-antenna proteins pathway and energy metabolites were downregulated , whereas the transmembrane transport and receptor activities of phosphate and calcium signal pathways were upregulated to maintain growth , achieving balance in the 1 mg/L group . The significantly upregulated steroid biosynthesis promoted the hydrophobicity of plasma membranes and reduced the permeability for water-soluble ions , exacerbating phosphorus deficiency . The downregulation of the Calvin cycle shifted the total carbon metabolism and carbon migration , reducing photosynthesis and respiration but accumulating starch to counteract cell shading and phosphorus deficiency . These findings provide novel insights into the mechanisms underlying the short-term growth stimulation and long-term potential toxic effects of NPs on marine microalgae , thus altering marine carbon and phosphorus cycles .
Aldose reductase ( ALR2 ) inhibition is a promising therapeutic strategy for managing diabetes-related complications , including neuropathy , retinopathy , and nephropathy . This study reports the design , synthesis , and biological evaluation of eighteen novel quinazolin-4 ( 3H ) -one derivatives incorporating a 4-bromo-2-fluorobenzylidene moiety as ALR2 inhibitors . Among the synthesized compounds , the cyclohexyl-substituted derivative ( compound 9 ) exhibited the highest potency as a competitive ALR2 inhibitor , with a K ( i ) of 064 muM-15 times more effective than the standard inhibitor epalrestat ( EPR ) ( K ( i ) = 967 muM ) . Molecular docking and dynamics simulations revealed stable binding interactions between compound 9 and key residues in the ALR2 active site , such as Trp-111 , Tyr-209 , Trp-20 , and Ser- Cytotoxicity assays on HUVEC and BEAS-B2 cell lines demonstrated that the most active compounds , were non-toxic at therapeutic concentrations . ADME-T analyses highlighted the favorable drug-likeness and pharmacokinetic properties of compound 9 , including high oral absorption and minimal toxicity risks , though limited solubility was identified as a challenge . While minor toxicological concerns were observed for other compounds , these were within manageable levels . Overall , compound 9 emerges as a potent and selective ALR2 inhibitor with significant potential for further optimization . Future studies will focus on enhancing its solubility and refining its pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles to support its development as a therapeutic candidate for diabetes-associated complications .
Motivated by the significant bioactivities and therapeutic potential of 1 , 4-benzodioxan derivatives , we reported the asymmetric total synthesis of amovillosumins A and B , two architecturally unique norlignans isolated from Amomum villosum . The target compounds were achieved in nine and seven steps , respectively , from commercially available materials , delivering exceptional overall yields ( 45-47 % ) with excellent enantiopurity ( 91-95 % ee ) . The key synthesis strategies encompassed Williamson ether formation , stereocontrolled ketone reduction , and Ullmann coupling to establish the pivotal 1 , 4-dioxan scaffold . This synthetic approach unambiguously confirmed the absolute configurations of amovillosumins A and B while providing sufficient quantities for comprehensive biological evaluation . Biological studies demonstrated that ( + ) -7S , 8S-1 significantly stimulated GLP-1 secretion by 4 % at 25 muM , obviously stronger than its enantiomer ( - ) -7R , 8R-1 ( 5 % ) . All isomers displayed significant anti-inflammatory activity in LPS-stimulated Raw7 cells , and especially , ( + ) -R-2 and ( - ) -S-2 ( IC = 2 and 8 muMu ) showed six-fold greater NO inhibition than indometacin ( IC = 2 muM ) . Mechanistic study demonstrated that ( - ) -S-2 significantly suppressed the mRNA expression of both Inos and Ptgs Network pharmacological analysis further confirmed PTGS2 as the primary target mediating the anti-inflammatory effects of ( - ) -S- This study integrates synthetic chemistry with pharmacological evaluation , offering structural confirmation and therapeutic insights into amovillosumins A and B .
Endothelial cell ( EC ) dysfunction and gene expression abnormalities in pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) vary among patients . Existing PAH cell sources , often from lung transplant patients , are influenced by drug treatments and are inadequate for identifying early-stage PAH genes . We propose isolating viable circulating endothelial cells ( CECs ) from the whole blood of PAH patients to evaluate their potential as surrogates for PAH-ECs and discover novel gene expression profiles relevant to PAH . We developed a microfluidic bioengineering system to directly detect and separate CECs from the blood of PAH patients . Viable CECs were isolated and compared with those from healthy individuals and PAH patients . Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified , and the role of the novel gene PRND in PAH was investigated using in vitro , genomic , and in vivo methods . CEC levels were higher in PAH patients and correlated with disease severity . Transcriptomic analysis revealed 138 DEGs when comparing healthy controls with PAH patients of intermediate severity . These DEGs were associated with PAH-specific markers and angiogenesis . The Doppel ( PRND ) gene , previously unlinked to PAH , was significantly upregulated in PAH-CECs and PAH-ECs . Overexpression of Doppel in human PAH-ECs matched 13-15 % of DEGs related to hypoxia and endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition ( EndMT ) . Doppel blocking or knockdown in ECs activated the BMPRII/pSMAD1/5 pathway and altered EndMT-related gene levels , while Doppel-knockout mice showed reduced right ventricular systolic pressure in Sugen/Hypoxia PH model . Collectively our findings demonstrate that PAH patient-derived CECs are a promising tool for identifying novel genes involved in PAH pathogenesis .
Novel cardiac patch designs achieved by advanced 3D manufacturing continue to have favorable impacts on the repair and regeneration of the myocardium after injury . Briefly , auxetic units with a negative Poisson ' s ratio have already shown remarkable promise for serving as a next-generation complex scaffold in left ventricular disease . In this study we biofabricated a 3D printed polycaprolactone ( PCL ) cardiac auxetic patch loaded with high density contractile induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes ( iCMs ) and examined the synergist effect of iCM auxetic patches on a chronic myocardial infarct rodent model compared to a stiffer non-auxetic control patch architecture . A week after the induction of a temporary left anterior descending artery ligation , we administered the treatment groups in the form of patch implantation over the ischemic area after initial acute inflammation was complete and prior to granulation tissue formation following the infarct for clinical relevance . Our findings highlight that auxetic patches can provide additional ventricular support and diminished adverse ventricular remodeling , as seen through ejection fraction outputs and histology , and iCM-laden auxetics show localized regenerative potential through increased vascularization compared to controls with no patch or a non-auxetic patch architecture . Exploration on the impact of a negative Poisson ' s ratio on both global functional outcomes and local therapeutic benefit highlights that iCM-laden auxetics should be further surveyed for other cardiac pathophysiologic conditions , including more in-depth studies on infarction or right ventricular disease .
Retinal neovascularization is the main pathologic feature of ischemic retinopathy , which eventually leads to vision loss and even blindness . Current treatments like laser photocoagulation and intravitreal injection of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor A drugs are invasive , expensive , and incompetent . Therefore , it is urgent to explore optimized therapies , particularly eye drops , to improve treatment effects . Our recent study reported that abnormal up-regulation of stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) is closely associated with retinal vascular diseases , and it is highly enriched in retinal endothelial cells with retinopathy . Thus , we evaluated whether endothelial STING affects retinal neovascularization . In addition , we constructed iRGD- and TAT-decorated nanoparticles ( NPs ) loaded with C-176 ( I/T-C-NP ) , capable of penetrating the cornea and targeting retinal endothelial cells . The I/T-C-NP eye drops were applied to the eyes of oxygen-induced retinopathy mice , resulting in attenuated activation of the STING pathway . Consequently , retinal neovascularization and vascular tortuosity were effectively reduced , astrocyte activation was prohibited , and pericyte coverage was improved . These observations suggest that I/T-C-NP eye drops can be a potential solution for the treatment of retinal neovascularization .
The understanding of microplastics ( MPs ) has advanced significantly with their accumulation in aquatic environments , but their potential impact on cyanobacterial blooms remains inadequately understood . Herein , the dynamic fluctuating effects of polystyrene ( PS ) on Microcystis aeruginosa were investigated throughout its growth cycle , as well as the action of algal organic matter in the disinfection by-products formation . The maximum inhibition of algal cell growth and phycobiliprotein content by PS during the adaptation phase reached 3 % and 3 % , respectively . With the extension of exposure time , the inhibitory effect gradually transitions into promotive effect . PS exposure increased the content of extracellular organic matter and enhanced the THMs formation during chlorination , with trihalomethanes concentrations of 8 and 9 mug/L in the control and PS treatment groups , respectively . Moreover , the reactive oxygen species levels in PS-exposed algal cells were only 5 % of those in the control group , and total antioxidant capacity levels , superoxide dismutase and catalase activities were also lower . However , the microcystin content exposed PS was increased to 2 times that of the control group . The presence of PS in aquatic environments increases the levels of algal organic matter and microcystin , potentially threatening water quality . This study provides new insights into the combined effects of microplastics on freshwater algae and valuable data on potential risk associated with MPs .
In this work , a CuMn-bimetal-based metal-organic framework ( MOF ) encapsulated CoO composite ( CuMn-MOF@CoO ) with a three-dimensionmal hierarchical structure formed by interwoven nanosheets was in-situ grown on nickel foam ( NF ) through a three-step fabrication method for the electrochemical methanol oxidation reaction ( MOR ) . The characterizations revealed the phase transformation of CuMn-MOF during the electrochemical activation generated abundant hydroxides/hydroxyoxides ( Cu ( OH ) , Mn ( OH ) , MOOH ) , which provided optimal architecture and real active sites for MOR . At the same time , the combination of CoO with the generated CuMn ( OH ) ( x ) effectively enhanced the synergistic interactions between them , greatly hindering high-valent hydroxides formation , lowering methanol and intermediate adsorption energy barriers , thereby ensuring highly selective electrooxidation of methanol to formate with high activity . As a result , the electrochemically reconstructable CuMn-MOF@CoO composite exhibited excellent performance , achieving a high MOR current density of 500 mA cm ( -2 ) at 41 V vs . RHE , with a Faradaic efficiency ( FE ) of near 100 % and long-term stability . Moreover , in a two-electrode electrolysis system with MeOH-water solution , only 60 V of cell voltage was required to maintain a current density of 100 mA cm ( -2 ) for MOR-HER , which significantly reduced energy consumption compared to the conventional OER-HER system . It opens a novel avenue for the design of advanced electrochemically reconstructable MOF-based composites for elecrooxidation process .
PtRu alloys are promising catalysts for the hydrogen oxidation reaction ( HOR ) in alkaline hydroxide exchange membrane fuel cells ( HEMFCs ) for commercial application . However , there is a need to lower the loading of platinum while simultaneously increasing its activity . Herein , we successfully prepared a PtRu alloy catalyst featuring a precisely controlled Pt-to-Ru atomic ratio of 1 : 5 , which is typically 1 : 1 or 1 : 3 , supported on polypyrrole ( Ppy ) decorated Vulcan XC-72R ( XC ) . The catalyst , named PtRu/Ppy-XC , exhibits a remarkable mass catalytic activity of 69 +/- 40 mA mug ( PGM ) ( -1 ) , which is 2-fold and 6-fold higher than those of commercial PtRu/C and PtRu nanoparticles supported on raw XC , respectively . Moreover , the HEMFC with PtRu/Ppy-XC anode achieves a peak power density of 53 W cm ( -2 ) ( 15 mg ( PGM ) cm ( anode ) ( -2 ) ) , outperforming that of PtRu/XC ( 26 W cm ( -2 ) , 18 mg ( PGM ) cm ( anode ) ( -2 ) ) . The combined experimental characterization and theoretical calculations reveal that Ppy significantly enhances the active site density due to the decrease in the proportion of micropores while optimizing the binding strength of *H and *OH species on PtRu/Ppy-XC , resulting in excellent catalytic performance even with a low Pt usage . This work provides a novel strategy for developing high-performance electrocatalysts by employing functionalized XC support to fine-tune catalyst/support interactions and control over the pore structure of carbon supports .
The increasing demand for high-energy-density batteries has driven intensive research into lithium metal batteries ( LMBs ) as promising alternatives to conventional lithium-ion batteries . Despite their ultrahigh theoretical capacity , lithium metal anodes ( LMAs ) suffer from uncontrolled dendrite growth , leading to safety hazards and irreversible capacity loss . Herein , we develop a functional separator based on a composite of Ag nanoparticles ( NPs ) and metal-organic frameworks ( MOFs ) to enhance LMA stability . The -NH groups in MOFs promote Li ( + ) desolvation and transport , while Ag NPs induce the in-situ formation of a Li-Ag alloy interphase , effectively suppressing dendrite growth and improving interfacial lithiophilicity . As a result , the reversibility and Li plating/stripping kinetics of LMAs are significantly enhanced . The Li symmetric cells exhibit an ultralong lifespan of 2000 h at 2 mA cm ( -2 ) and 1000 h at 5 mA cm ( -2 ) . Moreover , the Li||LiFePO full cell retains 3 % of its initial capacity after 2000 cycles at 1C and maintains 45 mAh g ( -1 ) even at an ultra-high rate of 15C .
The increasing emergence of multidrug-resistant ( MDR ) bacteria threatens the health of the global population by perpetuating microbial infections . Therefore , accelerating the development of nondrug-resistant antimicrobial substances is crucial to combat drug-resistant bacterial infections . Herein , we report a simple one-pot , microwave-assisted strategy for designing ultrasmall lysozyme-functionalized gold nanoclusters ( L-Au NCs ) through the one-step assembly of natural lysozyme and metal ions ( e . g . , Au ( 3+ ) ) in aqueous solution . Compared with free lysozyme , L-Au NCs efficiently disrupted the membranes of MDR bacteria and induced the formation of reactive oxygen species within bacterial cells , demonstrating potent broad-spectrum antibacterial activity against Gram-positive ( e . g . , methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) ) and Gram-negative ( e . g . , MDR Escherichia coli ) bacteria . In addition , the red-emitting L-Au NCs exhibited fluorescence labeling capability against MDR bacteria . In mouse infection models , L-Au NCs exhibited good biocompatibility and promoted healing of MRSA-infected skin wounds by eradicating bacterial infection and reducing inflammation without causing systemic damage . These findings provide insights into the antibacterial properties of metal-natural enzyme materials and highlight the potential of rationally designed broad-spectrum antibacterial strategies to treat intractable bacterial infections .
BACKGROUND : The mitochondrial dysfunction and overactive osteoclasts is involved in the progress of osteoporosis . Brevilin A ( BA ) , a sesquiterpene lactone , is a compound extracted and purified from Centipeda minima . It exhibits a range of pharmacological activities , such as anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects . However , its specific impact on osteoporosis remains unclear . The present study is designed to explore BA as a novel osteoclast inhibitor for the treatment of osteoporosis as well as its molecular mechanisms of action via BNIP3-mediated mitophagy . METHODS : The cytotoxicity of BA in vitro was evaluated using the CCK8 assay , while tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase ( TRAcP ) staining and bone resorption assays were conducted to examine its effects on osteoclastogenesis and osteoclast function . To elucidate the molecular mechanisms by which BA targets BNIP3 in osteoclasts , RNA-seq , molecular docking analysis , Surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) , qPCR , western blot , mitochondrial oxygen consumption rate ( OCR ) , transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) , Single cell sequencing and immunofluorescence staining were employed . In addition , a specific BNIP3 agonist IOX5 , was used to revalidate the inhibitory effect of BA on BNIP To investigate the effects and protective role of BA in modulating BNIP3 on bone loss in osteoporotic mice induced by ovariectomy ( OVX ) , we employed in vivo micro-CT scanning and histological immunostaining techniques . RESULTS : Our study demonstrated that BA inhibited RANKL-induced osteoclastogenesis in a concentration-dependent manner without any cell cytotoxicity . Further , BA abrogated MAPK-related proteins and intracellular and mitochondrial ROS level , subsequently inhibiting NFATc1 activity . RNA-seq analysis revealed that the molecular mechanism by which BA inhibited osteoclasts is closely related to mitophagy and mitochondrial function . Here , we found that BA suppressed oxygen consumption rate and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation during osteoclastogenesis . This compound abolished expression of ATG5 , SIRT3 , Beclin1 and LC3B . RANKL-induced mitophagy associated protein ( PINK1 and Parkin ) were also suppressed by BA . BA interacted with BNIP3 and IOX5 treatment further verified the targeted inhibition effect of BA on BNIP In addition , we found that BNIP3 deficient inhibited osteoclast differentiation related with mitophagy and mitochondrial function . In vivo experiments confirmed that BA significantly prevent OVX-induced bone loss associated with BNIP3-mediated mitophagy . CONCLUSIONS : Our study reveals for the first time that BA acts as a novel inhibitor of BNIP3 , which ameliorates osteoclast activity and OVX-induced osteoporosis via limiting mitophagy and mitochondrial energy production , suggesting that it could be a novel therapeutic strategy for osteoporosis .
BACKGROUND : Targeting metabolic disorders has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy in the treatment of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) . 18beta-glycyrrhetinic acid ( 18beta-GA ) is known for its metabolic regulatory and antioxidant effects in various diseases . However , the precise effects and underlying mechanisms of 18beta-GA on CKD remain unclear . PURPOSE : This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of 18beta-GA on CKD and to identify the molecular targets of 18beta-GA with a particular emphasis on its role in metabolic regulation . STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS : A high-fat diet-induced CKD model was established to investigate the influence of 18beta-GA on lipid metabolic disorders , cellular senescence and fibrosis in the kidneys . Co-immunoprecipitation was performed to investigate the impact of 18beta-GA on the interaction between transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) and sirtuin 1 ( SIRT1 ) . Additionally , network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses were conducted to identify the specific target proteins of 18beta-GA . RESULTS : 18beta-GA alleviated renal lipid accumulation , tubular cell senescence and renal interstitial fibrosis in CKD mice . Treatment with 18beta-GA largely restored mitochondrial function and attenuated intracellular lipotoxicity and associated cellular senescence by promoting lipophagy in renal tubular cells . Mechanistically , 18beta-GA acting as a partial antagonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) enhanced lipophagy through SIRT1-mediated nuclear translocation of TFEB which induced the expression of microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 ( LC3 ) . CONCLUSION : Our findings demonstrate that 18beta-GA , functioning as a partial antagonist of PPARgamma , counteracts CKD progression by activating the SIRT1-TFEB-LC3 signaling axis-mediated lipophagy and thus uncover a novel mechanism by which 18beta-GA improves renal lipid metabolism disorders and exerts renoprotective effects . These results highlight the potential of 18beta-GA as a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment and prevention of CKD .
BACKGROUND : Gastric cancer with complex carcinogenesis and a multi-factorial immunopathophysiology is well-known as the third life-threatening type of cancer in Asia . In this regard , it has been demonstrated that the role of Reactive Oxygen Species ( ROS ) in these processes should not be underestimated . Besides , mitochondrial Manganese Superoxide Dismutase ( MnSOD ) with antioxidant properties show protective effects against ROS . On the other hand , MnSOD catalyzes the dismutation of superoxide radicals to H2O2 and oxygen reactions . A replacement of T with C at nucleotide 47 ( Val-9Ala ) leads to a change in MnSOD nascent protein signal sequences and builds a relationship with gastric cancer . Therefore , the authors aimed at investigating the Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms ( SNPs ) in patients with gastric cancer by employing High-Resolution Melting . METHODOLOGY : In order to investigate the ( T/C ) polymorphisms of MnSOD , the genomic DNA of 30 paraffin-embedded tissue samples were collected from patients with gastric cancer and 30 healthy people , respectively . An investigation was conducted into the T/C polymorphisms of MnSOD by employing High Resolution Melting ( HRM ) in different melting temperatures ( Tm ) . Afterward , the sequencing was carried out . RESULTS : Our findings obtained from HRM methods confirmed the SNP genotypes in each group . It is worth mentioning that frequencies of Ala/Ala , Ala/Val , and Val/Val genotypes in MnSOD in the healthy group were 13 ( 3 % ) , 13 ( 3 % ) , and 4 ( 3 % ) , respectively . On the other hand , in the understudy case group , frequencies for the aforementioned genotypes were 5 ( 6 % ) , 16 ( 3 % ) , and 9 ( 30 % ) , respectively . Besides , the frequencies of the Ala allele in gastric cancer were reported to be 43 % and 54 % for healthy people . Frequencies for the Val allele in the studied case and the control groups were 44 % and 56 % , respectively . The sensitivity and the specificity of the HRM method in detecting MnSOD SNPs were reported to be 100 % . CONCLUSION : by taking into account the contributing roles of MnSOD SNPs in the induction of gastric cancer , it is highly recommended to create collaboration among basic medical scientists , geneticists , gastroenterologists , medical laboratory scientists , pathologists , and hematologists for more promising results and improved outcome of the diagnosis . Accordingly , we conducted an investigation with diagnostic purposes into the frequencies in SNPs for patients with gastric cancer .
OBJECTIVE : To describe characteristics , treatment patterns , and outcomes of patients with EGFR exon 20 insertion ( exon20ins ) -positive advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) who received amivantamab or mobocertinib monotherapy after platinum-based chemotherapy ( PBC ) . PATIENTS AND METHODS : This retrospective longitudinal cohort study pooled electronic health records from the Flatiron Health ( January 2011-August 2022 ) , Ontada ( January 2013-January 2023 ) , and COTA ( January 2010-December 2022 ) databases . Patients ( >/=20 years ) with advanced or metastatic EGFR exon20ins NSCLC who received amivantamab or mobocertinib following PBC were included . Patient characteristics and treatment patterns were analyzed descriptively . Time to next treatment or death ( TTNTD ) and time to discontinuation ( TTD ) were assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates . RESULTS : 44 patients treated with amivantamab and 24 patients with mobocertinib after PBC met the selection criteria . Patient characteristics were consistent with previous studies . Most patients received amivantamab or mobocertinib as second-line ( 57 % and 50 % ) or third-line ( 32 % and 33 % ) therapy . The median TTNTD was 2 months for amivantamab and 2 months for mobocertinib . Fewer patients in the amivantamab cohort ( 43 % ) experienced a TTNTD event than the mobocertinib cohort ( 63 % ) . The median TTD was 6 months for amivantamab and 3 months for mobocertinib , with a lower discontinuation rate in the amivantamab cohort ( 46 % vs 67 % ) . CONCLUSION : Real-world patients with EGFR exon20ins NSCLC treated with amivantamab after PBC experienced median TTNTD and TTD consistent with the median progression-free survival observed in its registrational trial while patients treated with mobocertinib exhibited faster disease progression and a higher frequency of treatment discontinuation . MICROABSTRACT : This retrospective study described patient characteristics , treatment patterns , and outcomes in patients with EGFR exon20ins-mutated advanced or metastatic NSCLC who received amivantamab or mobocertinib monotherapy after platinum-based chemotherapy . Real-world patients treated with amivantamab experienced TTNTD and TTD consistent with the median progression-free survival observed in its registrational trial , while patients treated with mobocertinib exhibited faster disease progression and a higher frequency of treatment discontinuation .
BACKGROUND : This study aimed to clarify the clinical utility of erythrocytapheresis as a treatment for erythrocytosis , including polycythemia vera and secondary erythrocytosis . MATERIAL AND METHODS : A retrospective analysis was conducted on 83 patients ( 34 % male , mean age 66 years ( 23 years ) ) who underwent a total of 104 erythrocytapheresis sessions between September 2021 and April The key parameters measured included the depleted red blood cell ( RBC ) volume , the hemoglobin ( HB ) and hematocrit ( Hct ) reductions , and adverse reactions . RESULTS : Erythrocytapheresis significantly reduced the post-treatment RBC counts ( 22 % ) , the HB ( 19 % ) level and the Hct ( 62 % ) , the white blood cell counts , ( 37 % ) and the platelet counts ( 38 % ) ( all p < 05 ) . The median depleted RBC volume was 5 mL ( range 75-5 mL ) . The median post-treatment target Hct was 40 % ( range 40-45 % ) . The mean post-treatment Hct was in fact 57 % ( 54 % ) , which was higher than the target , and the mean Hct error ratio was 23 % ( 95 % ) . When the replacement solution was physiological saline , an adverse reaction ( hypotension ) occurred during 81 % of the 104 erythrocytapheresis sessions , but only in patients with a depleted RBC volume/weight ( D/W ) >/= 25 mL/kg . No significant differences were observed between the Spectra Optia and COM . TEC blood cell separators . DISCUSSION : Erythrocytapheresis effectively reduces the RBC mass in patients with erythrocytosis . In rough terms , the post-treatment target Hct = the post-treatment Hct x 88 , our research team has officially designated this formula as the ' Southwest Formula ' . In the future , we will continue to expand the sample size to enhance the precision of this formula and better guide the clinical application of erythrocytapheresis .
OBJECTIVES : Heart disease is a leading cause of death worldwide , with its prevalence exacerbated by inadequate nutritional intake . Particularly concerning is the elevated risk induced by imbalanced nutrition during development , which can impact lifelong heart health . Recent research has underscored mitochondrial dysregulation as a pivotal mechanism driving the enduring consequences of nutritional excess . Building upon previous findings wherein a maternal high-fat diet ( HFD ) led to cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis , our current study aimed to evaluate the impact of such a challenge on myocardial mitochondrial function . METHODS : Female rats were fed a chow diet or HFD during gestation and lactation . The hearts of male offspring were analyzed at adulthood . Mitochondrial DNA abundance was evaluated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction . Proteins involved in mitochondrial biogenesis , fusion , fission , damage to the electron transport chain , metabolism , cell death , proliferation , and inflammation were measured by western blot . Mitochondrial clearance was evaluated by the measurement of mitophagy markers on isolated mitochondria . Lipids were visualized by histologic approaches . RESULTS : We detected decreased cardiac mitochondrial fission factor and mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate synthase beta subunit and increased Parkin , pro-tumor necrosis factor alpha , and pro-interleukin 1 beta protein levels associated with decreased microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B light chain 3B levels in cardiac mitochondrial fraction , with a tendency for increased Oil Red O staining in the adult hearts of male offspring exposed to HFD . CONCLUSIONS : Maternal exposure to HFD enhanced mitochondrial damage and impaired fission and clearance in offspring hearts at adulthood . These alterations were associated with altered expression of proteins involved in the mitochondrial electron transport chain coupled with a propensity for increased fatty acid accumulation and elevated proinflammatory markers .
OBJECTIVES : Accurate diagnosis of small renal masses is crucial for treatment planning . Combining radiomics analysis with the Clear Cell Likelihood Score ( ccLS ) in multiparametric MRI can effectively assess malignancy risk . This study aimed to evaluate the contribution of MRI-based radiomics analysis to the diagnostic performance of the ccLS in differentiating clear cell renal carcinoma ( ccRCC ) . MATERIALS AND METHODS : This retrospective study included patients with cT1a renal masses who underwent preoperative MRI and nephrectomy . Radiomic features were extracted from multiparametric MRI images , including T2-weighted imaging and contrast-enhanced T1-weighted imaging sequences . Qualitative assessment was performed using the ccLS version 0 , based on multiparametric MRI findings . The diagnostic efficacies of the ccLS , radiomic analysis , and the combination of the two methods in differentiating ccRCCs were analyzed . RESULTS : A total of 72 small renal masses ( 43 ccRCC and 29 non-ccRCC ) from 68 patients were evaluated . Using ccLS alone , lesions classified as ccLS >/= 4 were identified as ccRCCs with a sensitivity of 3% and specificity of 3% . Radiomic analysis revealed significant differences between ccRCC and non-ccRCC lesions , with AUC values ranging from 48 to 87 across different features . The combined use of radiomic features and ccLS improved the differentiation of ccRCCs , achieving a sensitivity of 7% , specificity of 4% , and an AUC of In lesions classified as ccLS 3 ( equivocal ) , radiomic analysis alone distinguished ccRCCs with 100% sensitivity and 5% specificity . CONCLUSIONS : This study ' s findings demonstrated that radiomics analysis successfully differentiated lesions with a ccLS 3 and that the use of radiomic analysis in combination with ccLS successfully differentiated ccRCC and non-ccRCC lesions .
Human exposure to radionuclides from naturally occurring radioactive material ( NORM ) varies according to daily activities and proximity to natural radioactive sources in the environment . Studies conducted in municipalities of Recife ' s metropolitan region detected radionuclides , such as radon , in food , soil , atmosphere , and well water . However , human biomonitoring in this population remains necessary . This study evaluates the suitability of biodosimetric techniques to be applied in regions of NORM occurrence and investigates the correlation between DNA damage and low Rn concentrations . Peripheral blood samples were exposed in vitro to Rn at 4 , 0 , 1 , and 3 KBq/m , plus an unexposed control . Three techniques were applied : Dicentric Chromosome , Micronucleus , and Comet Assay . In the dicentric assay , there was a significant increase ( p < 001 ) in dicentric frequency in the irradiated samples compared to the control . Although an absolute increase was also observed among the exposed groups , in accordance with the activity concentrations , this difference was not statistically significant ( p > 05 ) . The micronucleus assay , there was also a statistical difference between the irradiated samples and the control samples ( p < 05 ) but showed limited sensitivity to dose-response dependence . The comet assay confirmed the genotoxic effect of radon on the cells , as demonstrated by increased DNA strand breaks and relaxation in the exposed samples . Overall , the three techniques effectively differentiated exposed from unexposed samples , demonstrating their potential for radiation exposure screening . Although the dicentric assay demonstrated higher sensitivity , the findings highlight the importance of integrated biodosimetric approaches in specific scenarios of low-dose exposure .
Our study , using SEM and histology , aims to characterize the dorsal and ventral skin of Coluber flourulentus , providing new insights into their Keratin immunohistochemical features . The SEM findings revealed overlapping smooth scales on both surfaces , with minor scale morphology variations ; the dorsal scales were finger-shaped with a pointed apex , while the ventral scales were flattened with tooth-like edges . Scales on both surfaces reveal two large , spherical-shaped lenticular sensory organs at their apex , dome-shaped receptors/sensilla on the outer surface , and dome-shaped sensilla with dendrites , a transverse cleft , and various pits and pores . Histologically , the micro-ornamentations on the inner-scale surfaces of both surfaces had similar structures with smooth , spiny scales and two layers . The epidermis layer had several layers , including the basal stratum germinativum , alpha-keratin , the Mesos layer , the beta-layer , and the covered Oberhautchen layer . Skin pigmentation varied between both surfaces : the dorsal dermal layer contains melanophores and iridophores , and the ventral dermal layer contains only dark black melanophores under the epidermal layer . Histochemical collagen fiber observations revealed blue-colored fibers in the dermis of dorsal and ventral surfaces , sparse underneath the basement membrane , and visible around pigment cells and muscle bundles . A dark brown reaction was observed in the epidermal cells of both dorsal and ventral surfaces , with high cytokeratin immunolabeling on the ventral surface and moderate cytokeratin immunoreaction on the dorsal surface . In conclusion , scales were crucial for controlling movements and responding to vibrational stimuli from object movements , including those of potential prey or predators .
We investigated the effectiveness of different COVID-19 vaccinations administered in Pakistan by studying the effect of inactivated virus , mRNA and vector formulations . This study in 916 participants was conducted between October 2021 and July Subjects receiving inactivated ( A ) , mRNA ( B ) , one-dose vector ( C ) , and two-dose vector ( D ) vaccines were sampled at baseline , 6 , 12 , and 24 weeks . Serum IgG antibodies to wildtype Spike and its receptor binding domain ( RBD ) were measured . Pseudovirus particle-based neutralizing assays against wildtype , Delta , and JN . 1 variants were performed . T cell IFN-gamma responses to SARS-CoV-2 antigens were measured . Participants were aged 05 +/- 44 years and comprised 6 % females . Baseline Spike seropositivity rose from 90 % to 96 % by 24 weeks ; and 40 % to 90 % against RBD . Group B participants had the highest anti-RBD levels which peaked by 6 weeks . IgG RBD in group A and C increased up until 24 weeks . Anti-RBD levels were reduced in those over 50 years . At baseline neutralizing titers were present at 5 % against wildtype and in 2 % against Delta variants . Titers doubled in vaccine groups A-C by 12 weeks , with highest titers in B and lowest in group C participants . At baseline , neutralizing titers against the JN . 1 variant were absent but low titers were evident in 10 % of participants after 12 weeks . T cell reactivity to SARS-CoV-2 increased from 31 % at baseline to 50 % in group A and 73 % in group B participants by 6 weeks after vaccination . Presence of immunity against wildtype and Delta variants in one-third of participants at baseline could be due to sub-clinical infections . Increase in humoral and cellular immunity was greater after mRNA as compared with inactivated vaccinations . As COVID-19 morbidity in the population remained low , our data supports effectiveness of multiple vaccine formulations in protecting against severe COVID-19 in this high transmission population .
Advancements in inner ear theragnostics are critical for addressing the pervasive challenges of diagnosing and treating hearing and balance disorders , which significantly impact quality of life . This paper reviews biosensors and devices that leverage advanced functional nanomaterials , microfabrication techniques , and nano-biotechnology to enhance theragnostic applications for the inner ear . The paper highlights the development of diverse electromechanical , electrochemical , and biomarker sensors for inner ear theragnostics . Electromechanical sensors replicate the cochlear and vestibular sensory structures through bioinspired designs , while electrochemical sensors are used to measure the level of ions and chemicals in the inner ear fluid , providing insights into the health and disease of the hearing and balance organs . Biomarker sensors focus on screening of inner ear diseases through early detection of correlated biomarkers based on point of care diagnostics . This study also examines the use of microfluidic devices with sensory elements to provide a compact and integrated model of the fluid-filled cochlea . In addition , advanced delivery strategies , including targeted drug delivery systems and nanocarriers are explored for their ability to improve the penetration and distribution of therapeutics within the inner ear . The study also highlights the importance of pharmacokinetics and post-treatment monitoring as critical indicators for assessing the efficacy of micro/nanotechnology-based theragnostic approaches . By consolidating these innovations , this work offers a comprehensive framework for advancing otology , paving the way for novel diagnostic tools , effective treatments , and future clinical applications .
Measuring and monitoring plasma nucleosomes ( small fragments of chromosomes released into the blood during cell death ) , and their proteomic profiles is a promising approach for improved early detection , diagnosis , and prognosis of cancer diseases as well as for disease and therapy follow-up , contributing to more personalized and effective cancer care . Early detection is imperative in colorectal cancer ( CRC ) , as it has been proven to significantly improve patient outcomes . Indeed , in CRC , blood circulating nucleosome levels and their histone alterations have been correlated with tumor stage and the presence of metastasis . Moreover , they constitute promising markers for CRC monitoring and prognosis in a minimally invasive way . The current technologies used for their detection suffer from notable drawbacks such as non-selective identification and quantification of unknown cancer-relevant proteomic trademarks , expensive procedures , and variable results related to staff experience . Taking advantage of the sensitive , fast , cost-effective , and reliable methodologies that electroanalytical technologies offer for the determination of multilevel biomarkers in liquid biopsies , we report in this paper the first electrochemical immunoplatform for the isolation and determination of circulating nucleosomes in plasma using an anti-H1 histone variant , integrated with proteomics insights to confirm nucleosomes isolation and identify associated proteins with potential as CRC biomarkers . The developed bioplatform was used to analyze 5 mug of nuclear extracts from CRC cells with different metastatic potential as well as 1/5 diluted plasma samples , demonstrating the suitability to effectively discriminate CRC patients in advanced stages from healthy individuals through liquid biopsy .
The Eurasian avian-like swine ( EA ) H1N1 virus has been widely prevalent in the Chinese swine population and has caused infections in human . However , knowledge regarding its pathogenic mechanisms remains limited . In this study , we analyzed the pathogenic determinants of two G4 genotype EA H1N1 viruses ( A/Swine/Guangdong/SS12/2017 and A/Swine/Jiangxi/1110/2017 ) with differing pathogenicity by constructing a series of reassortant and mutant viruses . The HA-G219A mutation was found to be determinant of pathogenicity in mice . Subsequent analyses revealed that this mutation enhances viral replication in human cells , improves thermal stability , reduces HA activation pH , and alters receptor-binding properties . Furthermore , HA-G219A mutation may be an adaptive mutation that facilitates influenza virus adaptation to swine , with its prevalence increasing in the swine population . This mutation may support cross-species transmission of EA H1N1 swine influenza viruses or genetic exchange with other virus subtypes/genotypes , potentially contributing to the emergence of pandemic viruses . These findings improve our understanding of EA H1N1 pathogenicity and highlight the critical need for ongoing surveillance of influenza viruses in pigs .
Thermal hydrolysis ( TH ) technology is promising for sludge pretreatment , but the high cost and the generation of refractory substances limit its application . In this study , sodium thiosulfate ( STS ) was innovatively combined with TH pretreatment to improve the anaerobic fermentation efficiency of sludge . TH-STS pretreatment ( 140 degrees C , 132 g/g TSS ) increased sludge solubility by 4 % and increased short-chain fatty acid ( SCFA ) production to 86 times that of the control group . TH effectively stripped the extracellular polymeric substances , and STS subsequently lysed the cells through its reducing power . TH-STS pretreatment promoted SCFA accumulation by increasing the activity of key enzymes and enriching hydrolyzing and acidifying bacteria . In addition , TH-STS pretreatment increased the activity of the electron transport system , which positively promoted the biotransformation of SCFAs . This study reveals that STS and TH pretreatment have a synergistic effect , providing an effective method for improving sludge pretreatment and resource recycling .
The use of metallodrugs in cancer therapy received widespread interest after the successful application of cisplatin and its analogous compounds as chemotherapeutic medications . Despite the development of various metallodrugs in past years , platinum-based chemotherapeutic agents are the only clinically approved metallodrugs that primarily interact with genomic DNA and trigger severe dose-limiting adverse side effects in cancer patients . As a consequence , the advancement of new risk-free metallodrugs has become a topmost concern in cancer research to minimize toxicity and improve therapeutic outcomes . G-quadruplex ( G4 ) DNA structures have recently come to light as an attractive drug target in cancer therapy because of their gene regulation ability and role in maintaining genomic stability . Their presence in telomere and promoter region of oncogenes has the potential to induce apoptosis in cancer cells through the inhibition of telomerase activity and gene expression . Therefore , the development of new G4 DNA targeting small molecular entities including metal complexes came out as a viable approach for uprooting cancer disease . Beyond organic small molecules , innumerable metal complexes have been developed in past years to target G4 DNA structures in the context of cancer therapy . This review primarily aims to highlight these metal complexes through a comprehensive discussion about their structural properties , their binding interactions with G4 DNA , their cancer cell growth inhibition mechanisms , and their efficacy in both cellular and in vivo systems , to decode their potential as anti-cancer drugs . Additionally , the potential of these metal complexes in the field of bio-imaging and photodynamic therapy is also explored .
OBJECTIVE : Previous studies of Lymph Node Yield ( LNY ) for neck dissection in Oral Cavity Squamous Cell Carcinoma ( OCSCC ) have shown LNY of 18 or more lymph nodes to be of prognostic value . This study aims to evaluate the prognostic implications of LNY , number of metastatic nodes , and Lymph Node Ratio ( LNR ) in clinical N0 OCSCC . METHODS : We retrospectively analyzed 118 patients who underwent elective neck dissection for OCSCC at Rabin Medical Center ( 2000-2020 ) . Demographic , clinical , pathological , and surgical data were collected . We examined the prognostic significance of LNY cutoffs ( 18 and 13 ) , number of positive nodes , and LNR on disease-free and overall survival . RESULTS : The mean LNY was 5 +/- 3 nodes , with a lymph node metastasis rate of 3 % . Statistical analysis showed that neither 18 nor 13 lymph nodes had significant prognostic value for recurrence or survival . The mean LNR was 52 % +/- 3 % , with higher LNR values ( >4 % ) significantly associated with increased recurrence ( p = 003 ) and reduced survival intervals ( p = 003 ) . Cox regression analysis further confirmed that both elevated LNR and the presence of more than two metastatic lymph nodes were independently associated with increased mortality . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings challenge the commonly cited LNY threshold of 18 , as no specific LNY cutoff conferred significant survival benefits . Instead , LNR emerged as a superior prognostic marker , correlating strongly with overall survival and locoregional control . Incorporating LNR into prognostic models may enhance risk stratification and guide clinical decision-making in OCSCC management .
INTRODUCTION : Chromophobe renal cell carcinoma ( ChRCC ) is the third most common type of RCC . There are no proven therapies for patients with metastatic ChRCC , with a median survival of 27 months . KIT ( CD117 ) is a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase receptor . Antibody-drug conjugates ( ADC ) targeting KIT were previously found to be safe and effective in preclinical models of KIT-positive cancers but have not been tested in ChRCC . RESULTS : In The Cancer Genome Atlas , KIT mRNA expression is higher in ChRCC than any other tumor type with the mean expression 12 times higher than matched normal kidney . Of the 15 metastatic ChRCC specimens stained for KIT at our institution , 87% were positive . In single-cell RNA sequencing data , KIT and SCF , the KIT ligand , are co-expressed in ChRCC tumor cells . We found that KIT mRNA expression is significantly higher in ChRCC-derived cells compared to clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) -derived cells and normal kidney cells . Western blot analysis confirmed KIT expression in 5 ChRCC cell lines . Despite high KIT expression , knockdown of KIT or treatment with KIT targeting tyrosine kinase inhibitors did not decrease ChRCC cell proliferation . LOP628 , a KIT ADC , decreased the viability of the ChRCC-derived cells by approximately 60% with no effect on ccRCC cells . CONCLUSION : Together , these data demonstrate that KIT is a viable therapeutic target for antibody-drug conjugates in ChRCC , providing a foundation for further investigation into KIT-targeted therapies .
INTRODUCTION : The placenta develops as trophectoderm cells invade and secrete peptides to remodel the maternal vasculature . Impaired invasion can lead to preeclampsia . Maternal smoking during pregnancy can cause miscarriage and fetal developmental problems . Yet curiously , cigarette use during pregnancy correlates with a decreased risk for preeclampsia . To explore this , we have studied the secreted peptide , adrenomedullin ( ADM ) that promotes placentation and is increased by maternal smoking . The aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AHR ) is a transcription factor that binds cigarette-associated carcinogenic ligands . We hypothesized that AHR activation by cigarette smoke induces Adm to promote placental development . METHODS : Pregnant transgenic animals exhibiting overexpression of Adm or genetic loss of Ahr were exposed to cigarette smoke . Embryo and placenta tissues were evaluated . Immortalized trophoblast cells ( HTR8/SVneo ) were also exposed to cigarette smoke extract before AHR chromatin immunoprecipitation with quantitative polymerase chain reaction . RESULTS : Ablation of Ahr reduced embryo weights and embryo/placental weight ratios . Further , overexpression of Adm increased placental weights in sham treated conditions yet caused abnormal placental growth and stunted embryo development with cigarette smoke . Finally , chromatin immunoprecipitation results demonstrated that AHR significantly binds to two sites on the ADM promoter . DISCUSSION : In a mouse model of high Adm expression , cigarette smoke can elicit stunted embryo and placental weights and abnormal placental morphology . Thus , tightly regulated ADM levels are critical for murine gestational development and in the presence of cigarette smoke , are promoted by AHR-mediated transcriptional activation . These studies provide compelling results suggesting AHR drives ADM upregulation in the smoke-exposed placenta .
Endothelial cells are crucial for vascular function , and they respond to heat stress by altering gene and protein expression . This study investigated the impact of heat stress on endothelial cells using transcriptomic and proteomic analyses . Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) were exposed to heat stress at 43 degrees C for 6 h , resulting in significant changes in gene and protein expression patterns . In particular , ORAI1 , a key regulator of intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) levels , was significantly upregulated . The integration of transcriptomic and proteomic data revealed genes and proteins associated with endothelial cell damage and repair processes . Validation experiments confirmed the upregulation of ORAI1 and increased intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) levels under heat stress . These findings enhance our understanding of endothelial cell responses to heat stress and suggest potential therapeutic targets for heat-related diseases .
BACKGROUND : Hair loss affects millions worldwide , yet current pharmacological treatments remain limited in efficacy and long-term sustainability . The Wnt/beta-catenin pathway plays a crucial role in hair follicle regeneration , providing a promising target for novel therapeutic interventions . METHODS : This study investigates the potential of Hyperbranched Polymer Dots ( HPD ) as a novel nanotherapeutic for hair follicle regeneration . Using a C57BL/6 mouse model , we assessed the effects of topically applied HPD on hair growth , follicular proliferation , and key molecular markers of follicular activation . Optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) , histological analysis , and immunofluorescence staining for Ki67 and beta-catenin were performed to evaluate follicular activity at multiple time points . RESULTS : HPD treatment significantly accelerated hair regrowth ( p < 05 ) and enhanced follicular density compared to minoxidil-treated controls . Immunofluorescence analysis revealed upregulation of Ki67 and beta-catenin , indicating enhanced follicular stem cell proliferation and activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway . Furthermore , HPD-treated mice exhibited increased melanin deposition , suggesting early follicular entry into the anagen phase . CONCLUSION : Our findings demonstrate that HPD serves as a potent activator of hair follicle regeneration , surpassing the efficacy of conventional minoxidil treatment . By modulating Wnt/beta-catenin signaling and enhancing follicular proliferation , HPD presents a promising nanomedicine-based approach for non-invasive hair restoration therapies . Future studies should focus on optimizing HPD formulations for clinical translation in treating androgenetic alopecia and related hair disorders .
Energy metabolism is crucial for reproduction , and disturbances in glucose metabolism are closely associated with reproductive disorders . The gonadotropin inhibitory hormone ( GnIH ) plays a crucial role in reproduction and glucose homeostasis in both birds and mammals . However , its specific effects on glucose metabolism-associated ovarian dysfunction in hens remain uncharacterized . In this study , we investigated the effects of GnIH on ovarian function and glucose homeostasis in hens using combined in vivo and in vitro approaches . Our results showed that GnIH and its receptor , GPR147 , are predominantly expressed in white follicles . Continuous GnIH injection significantly reduced the ovarian index and the number of prehierarchical follicles , concurrently suppressing Fshr and LHr expression in white follicles . Additionally , metabolomic analyses indicate changes in key glucose metabolism pathways , indicating a regulatory role of GnIH in glucose metabolism . To validate our metabolomics findings , the effects of GnIH on glucose homeostasis in ovarian white follicles and granulosa cells ( GCs ) were further investigated through in vivo and in vitro studies . The results demonstrated that GnIH enhanced glucose transport , glycolysis and glycogen synthesis , but concurrently induced insulin resistance , oxidative stress , and mitochondrial dysfunction , ultimately leading to reduced energy levels and apoptosis in ovarian tissues . In summary , our study reveals that GnIH contributes to ovarian dysfunction via glucose metabolism dysregulation in hens , suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target for metabolic disorder-associated ovarian impairment in chickens .
This study explores the optimization of extended embryo culture and trophoblast derivation in sheep to enhance our understanding of the early stages of embryonic development and implantation . Using a combination of feeder-free culture conditions and culture in endometrial organoids ( EOs ) conditioned medium , we successfully supported prolonged embryo development in vitro till day 20 post-fertilization . Morphological changes resembling early gastrulation-like events and cotyledon-like formation were observed by advanced development . Relative quantitative PCR analysis showed orchestrated fluctuations in gene expression related to pluripotency and early lineage specifications . Trophoblast cells were passaged three times using feeder-free culture conditions and immunofluorescence analysis confirmed the expression of key trophoblast markers including CDX2 , GATA3 , syncytin-1 , beta-catenin , SOX2 , Fascin , SOX9 , BMP4 , MYC , KRT7 , and KRT The results demonstrated that embryos cultured in EOs conditioned medium significantly improved attachment and differentiation , highlighting the critical role of maternal tissue interactions . These findings provide valuable insights into placental development and hold potential applications for assisted reproductive technologies and livestock breeding advancements .
BACKGROUND : Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) is associated with organ toxicities , including cardiovascular ( CV ) complications . Data on contemporary acute postallogeneic HSCT cardiac complications and their impact on survival are scant . OBJECTIVES : The aim of the study was to determine the incidence of early CV events following allogeneic HSCT and their effect on survival within the first 100 days . METHODS : We conducted a single-center retrospective cohort study of adult patients who underwent allogeneic HSCT between 2004 and CV outcomes were a composite of CV death , myocardial infarction , heart failure , arrhythmia , stroke , or transient ischemic attack in early ( </=100 days ) postallogeneic HSCT . RESULTS : The 100-day cumulative incidences of CV events in 852 patients ( median age : 54 years ; 57% male ) was 55% ( 95% CI : 13%-26% ) . The most frequent cardiac event was atrial arrhythmia ( cumulative incidence : 92% [95% CI : 84%-56%] ) , followed by heart failure ( cumulative incidence : 07% [95% CI : 26%-24%] ) . Age ( subhazard ratio [SHR] per year : 07 ; 95% CI : 03-13 ) and left ventricular ejection fraction <50% before transplant ( SHR : 16 ; 95% CI : 43-98 ) were independently associated with increased risk of CV events . Nonfatal CV events during the first 100 days were independently associated with an increased hazard of nonrelapse mortality ( SHR : 25 ; 95% CI : 83-79 ) and all-cause mortality ( HR : 79 ; 95% CI : 87-68 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Although CV events are relatively uncommon in the first 100 days in patients after allogeneic HSCT , the occurrence of CV events is associated with high nonrelapse and all-cause mortality rates . Close monitoring of patients who develop CV events is recommended .
OBJECTIVE : To explore the role of anaphase promoting complex subunit 10 ( ANAPC10 ) in both the diagnosis and prognosis of oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) . DESIGN : ANAPC10 expressions in OSCC tissues and adjacent normal tissues were analysed using TCGA and GEO databases . Its clinical prognostic significance was evaluated using the GEPIA tool . Signalling pathways associated with ANAPC10 were identified through GO , KEGG , and GSEA . Promoter methylation levels of ANAPC10 were assessed using the UALCAN tool . The correlation between ANAPC10 expression and tumour-infiltrating immune cells was analysed using the TIMER database . ANAPC10 ' s role in OSCC cells was validated via CCK-8 assays , wound healing assays , cell migration assays , apoptosis assays , and cell cycle analysis . RESULTS : ANAPC10 expression was significantly elevated in OSCC tissues . Increased ANAPC10 expression was associated with advanced T stages , pathological stages , histologic grades , and poorer therapeutic outcomes . Notably , high ANAPC10 expression was strongly correlated with reduced overall survival , disease-specific survival , and progression-free interval in OSCC patients . Functional enrichment analyses revealed that ANAPC10 is involved in RNA splicing , immune regulation , and cell cycle progression . Experimental validation further demonstrated that ANAPC10 levels are influenced by promoter methylation status , and ANAPC10 regulates oral cancer cell proliferation , migration , apoptosis , and cell cycle progression . CONCLUSION : ANAPC10 is a critical gene in OSCC prognosis , with roles in cell cycle regulation and RNA splicing . It may serve as a diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target .
Type 2 inflammation is an essential defense mechanism of the innate and adaptive immune systems , but when dysregulated , it can cause chronic atopic diseases like allergic asthma and atopic dermatitis . Thymic stromal lymphopoietin ( TSLP ) helps drive type 2 inflammation by guiding T cells toward a type 2 helper cell ( T ( H ) 2 ) subtype and stimulating B cells ' antibody production . Fibronectin ( FN ) has recently been found at elevated levels in the plasma of children with atopic dermatitis and shown a potential proinflammatory role in bronchial epithelium tissue models . Both proteins ' surface charges suggest potential interaction with charged molecules . Seeking new strategies against type 2 inflammation , we found that negatively charged polyglycerol sulfates strongly bind to TSLP and FN . We confirmed that these molecules inhibit inflammation by reducing the TSLP-mediated type 2 polarization of CD4 ( + ) T cells . We found that adding polyglycerol sulfate to FN-triggered inflamed bronchial epithelium models reduced TSLP expression and interleukin 6 secretion . FAU - Krage , Clemens
We present in situ x-ray diffraction and velocity measurements of Fe_2O_3 under laser shock compression at pressures between 38-122 GPa . None of the high-pressure phases reported by static compression studies were observed . Instead , we observed an isostructural phase transition from alpha-Fe_2O_3 to a new alpha ; ' -Fe_2O_3 phase at a pressure of 50-62 GPa . The alpha ; ' -Fe_2O_3 phase differs from alpha-Fe_2O_3 by an 11% volume drop and a different unit cell compressibility . We further observed a two-wave structure in the velocity profile , which can be related to an intermediate regime where both alpha and alpha ; ' phases coexist . Density functional theory calculations with a Hubbard parameter indicate that the observed unit cell volume drop can be associated with a spin transition following a magnetic collapse . FAU - Amouretti , A
We propose an innovative design for quantum batteries ( QBs ) that involves coupling two-level systems to a topological photonic waveguide . Employing the resolvent method , we analytically explore the thermodynamic performance of QBs . First , we demonstrate that in the long-time limit , only bound states significantly contribute to the stored energy of QBs . We observe that near-perfect energy transfer can occur in the topologically nontrivial phase . Moreover , the maximum stored energy exhibits singular behavior at the phase boundaries , where the number of bound states undergoes a transition . Second , when a quantum charger and a quantum battery are coupled at the same sublattice within a unit cell , the ergotropy becomes immune to dissipation at that location , facilitated by a dark state and a topologically robust dressed bound state . Third , we show that as dissipation intensifies along with the emergence of the quantum Zeno effect , the charging power of QBs experiences a temporary boost . Our findings offer valuable guidance for improving quantum battery performance in realistic conditions through structured reservoir engineering . FAU - Lu , Zhi-Guang
Stomata are epidermal pores that control the exchange of gaseous CO and HO between plants and their environment . Modulating stomatal density can alter this exchange and thus presents a viable target for engineering improved crop productivity and climate resilience . Here , we show that stomatal density in Arabidopsis thaliana can be decreased by the expression of a water-forming NAD ( P ) H oxidase targeted to stomatal precursor cells . We demonstrate that this reduction in stomatal density occurs irrespective of whether the expressed enzyme is localized to the cytosol , chloroplast stroma or chloroplast intermembrane space of these cells . We also reveal that this decrease in stomatal density occurs in the absence of any measurable impact on the efficiency and thermal sensitivity of photosynthesis , or on stomatal dynamics . Consequently , overexpression plants exhibit a higher intrinsic water-use efficiency due to an increase in CO fixed per unit water transpired . Finally , we demonstrate that this enhanced water-use efficiency translates to an improvement in vegetative growth and biomass accumulation under water-deficit conditions . Together , these results thus provide a novel approach for enhancing plant productivity through metabolic engineering of stomatal density .
Recent research has proposed several host factors required for SARS-CoV-2 infection and involved in the inflammatory response . Among these , members of the human serpin family and PAR2 have been suggested to play a relevant role . As it has been shown that one of the multiple activities of protease inhibitor SerpinB3 is the activation of PAR2 , we have modulated the expression of these two molecules on both human bronchial and hepatic cells and assessed cell surface Spike binding and SARS-CoV-2 infectivity . Our findings indicate that both SerpinB3 and PAR2 play a pivotal role in viral infection and downregulate the expression of interferon-gamma , a cytokine with a well-known antiviral effect . These results underscore the potential of the SerpinB3-PAR2 axis as a target for antiviral therapy and provide support for addressing serpins as targets for this purpose . FAU - Frasson , Ilaria
Deep learning-based methods for identifying and tracking cells within microscopy images have revolutionized the speed and throughput of data analysis . These methods for analyzing biological and medical data have capitalized on advances from the broader computer vision field . However , cell tracking can present unique challenges , with frequent cell division events and the need to track many objects with similar visual appearances complicating analysis . Existing architectures developed for cell tracking based on convolutional neural networks ( CNNs ) have tended to fall short in managing the spatial and global contextual dependencies that are crucial for tracking cells . To overcome these limitations , we introduce Cell-TRACTR ( Transformer with Attention for Cell Tracking and Recognition ) , a novel deep learning model that uses a transformer-based architecture . Cell-TRACTR operates in an end-to-end manner , simultaneously segmenting and tracking cells without the need for post-processing . Alongside this model , we introduce the Cell-HOTA metric , an extension of the Higher Order Tracking Accuracy ( HOTA ) metric that we adapted to assess cell division . Cell-HOTA differs from standard cell tracking metrics by offering a balanced and easily interpretable assessment of detection , association , and division accuracy . We test our Cell-TRACTR model on datasets of bacteria growing within a defined microfluidic geometry and mammalian cells growing freely in two dimensions . Our results demonstrate that Cell-TRACTR exhibits strong performance in tracking and division accuracy compared to state-of-the-art algorithms , while also meeting traditional benchmarks in detection accuracy . This work establishes a new framework for employing transformer-based models in cell segmentation and tracking .
Sphagnum peat bogs store a large fraction of biologically-bound carbon , due to a steady accumulation of plant material over millennia . The resistance of Sphagnum biomass to decay is poorly understood and of high importance for preservation efforts and climate models . Sphagnum peat mostly consists of the polysaccharide-rich cell wall of the moss but the mechanisms by which it resist degradation by microbes remain unclear . Here we show that enzymatic saccharification of peat polysaccharides including cellulose and other glucose-rich polysaccharides is predominantly limited by access to the substrate . The experimental approach involved biotechnological tools including hydrothermal pretreatment to disrupt and relocate cell wall components . This physical change was confirmed by confocal laser scanning microscopy . A cocktail of microbial enzymes ( Cellic ( R ) CTec3 ) designed for industrial saccharification of lignocellulose of vascular plants was used to assess enzymatic digestibility of peat polysaccharides . The glucose yield increased from close to zero for untreated peat to 30% and 50% when pretreated at 160 and 180 degrees C . An overall catalytic rate constant for enzymatic glucose-release from peat-cellulose of 98 h-1 was calculated using a kinetic model . This is a similar or higher rate compared to cellulose from vascular plant tissues . With an iron content of 2 g/kg dry peat , oxidative inactivation of enzymes is an important factor to take into account . A high inactivation constant of 91 x10-3 h-1 was found for the used saccharification conditions , but the addition of catalase alleviated the oxidative inactivation and increased the glucose yield with 60% in peat pretreated at 180 degrees C . These findings show that molecular structures of Sphagnum peat which prevents access for cell wall degrading enzymes can be disrupted by hydrothermal pretreatment . This brings us closer to understanding peat recalcitrance and thus how very large amounts of organic carbon is stored .
Testicular cancer is the most common malignancy in males age 15-40 years and one of the most curable cancers , with a cumulative 10-year survival rate exceeding 90% . Management strategies depend on the histologic subtype , stage at diagnosis , sites of disease , tumor markers , and risk classification . Germ cell tumors , including seminomas and nonseminomas , constitute the majority of testicular cancers and require distinct therapeutic approaches . For localized disease , radical orchidectomy remains the cornerstone of treatment , followed by active surveillance , chemotherapy , or primary retroperitoneal lymph node dissection , depending on the histology and the risk of relapse . Seminomas are highly curable , with low-stage patients often managed through surveillance or postoperative single-agent carboplatin . By contrast , nonseminomas typically require adjuvant multiagent chemotherapy , such as bleomycin , etoposide , and cisplatin , particularly in higher-risk patients . For metastatic disease , chemotherapy remains the standard of care , achieving excellent cure rates even in patients with bulky tumors . Surgical resection of residual masses is especially critical in nonseminomatous germ cell tumors to remove viable cancer or teratoma components . The treatment of refractory or relapsed disease frequently involves second-line standard-dose or high-dose chemotherapy with autologous stem-cell transplantation , ideally performed in specialized high-volume centers . Before , during , and after treatment , multidisciplinary care is essential to addressing psychosocial challenges , optimizing fertility preservation , and enhancing quality of life . After curative treatments , long-term management involves regular follow-up to monitor for recurrence , late toxicities , and secondary malignancies , with survivorship programs playing a crucial role in meeting patients ' ongoing needs . Advances in molecular diagnostics for early relapse detection and the introduction of targeted therapies continue to improve outcomes , particularly in resistant patients . FAU - Raggi , Daniele
The gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract plays a crucial role in nutrient absorption , motility , and metabolism , while serving as a barrier against pathogens . The intestinal epithelial layer , particularly enteroendocrine cells ( EEC ) , is pivotal in sensing luminal stimuli due to its strategic position . Although comprising only 1% of the GI epithelium , in total EEC comprises perhaps the largest endocrine organ that couples GI luminal stimuli with release of hormones and neurotransmitters such as serotonin , glucagon-like peptide-1 ( GLP-1 ) , and peptide-tyrosine-tyrosine ( PYY ) , which regulate local and systemic physiology . In this review , we use EECs as a model to explore critical intracellular signaling pathways-centering around calcium ( Ca ( + ) ) and cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( cAMP ) . EECs utilize ionotropic and metabotropic receptors to detect luminal stimuli , leading to increased intracellular cytoplasmic Ca ( + ) and altered intracellular cAMP dynamics . Ca ( + ) influx is critical for the exocytosis of signaling molecules . The interplay between Ca ( + ) and cAMP signaling pathways enhances the release of these molecules , affecting both local and systemic responses . We make a point to discuss the conventional and emerging methodologies for measuring Ca ( + ) and cAMP dynamics in EECs , which is a rapidly expanding toolbox , containing genetically encoded indicators and resonance energy transfer techniques . Understanding these signaling cascades is essential for deciphering the complex roles of EECs in GI physiology and their impact on systemic health . FAU - Bellampalli , Shreya S
The inability of most human organs to regenerate themselves after injury underlies the lifelong morbidity of numerous diseases . As we continue to seek solutions for these intractable conditions , the liver emerges as an inspiring and informative exception . The liver is the only solid organ that can completely regenerate itself . At the core of this extraordinary feat of organ physiology lie two equally exceptional features of cell biology . First , liver regeneration is driven not by stem cells , but rather by the proliferation of the liver ' s differentiated cells . Second , many of these liver cells are polyploid , yet still able to execute proper cell division . Understanding how liver cells maintain proliferative capacity as differentiated cells and how they execute mitosis faithfully in a polyploid state could offer powerful insights toward engineering regenerative capacity in other organs . The liver thus offers not only proof that mammalian organ regeneration is possible , but also a blueprint for achieving this long-standing goal of regenerative medicine . FAU - Knouse , Kristin A
Perovskite precursor purity plays a crucial role in determining the characteristics and stability of perovskite solar cells ( PSCs ) . This study systematically investigates the influence of precursor impurity levels on the material properties and device performance . High-purity precursors enhance grain growth and suppress the intermediate phase formation . Thermogravimetric analysis ( TGA ) confirms that low-impurity precursors exhibit an enhanced thermal stability . Electrical and optical characterizations reveal that reduced impurity content suppresses current-voltage hysteresis and nonradiative recombination . Sodium ( Na ) is identified as a dominant impurity , and its reduction enhances the thermal stability . Devices fabricated with low-impurity precursors achieved a power conversion efficiency of 15% and maintained 7% of their initial efficiency after two months of ambient exposure , whereas higher-impurity devices experienced significant degradation . This study establishes precursor purity as a key determinant of PSC efficiency and stability , offering insights into the advancement of stable and efficient photovoltaic devices . FAU - Hyun , Hochan
Diabetes mellitus ( DM ) is a globally prevalent metabolic disorder characterized by impaired glucose homeostasis and insulin secretion . Beyond traditional risk factors like lifestyle and genetics , environmental pollutants , including particulate matter , heavy metals , and persistent organic pollutants , have become significant contributors to DM . One of the key mechanistic pathways through which these pollutants exert their effects is the activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) , a ligand-activated transcription factor that regulates the expression of cytochrome P450 family 1 ( CYP1 ) enzymes . This cascade contributes to increased oxidative stress and systemic inflammation , hallmarks of metabolic impairment . Importantly , these environmental pollutants are also linked to epigenetic modifications , including aberrant DNA methylation , histone modifications , and microRNA dysregulation , which further disrupt insulin sensitivity and beta-cell function . This review explores the possible mechanistic crosstalk between AhR/CYP1 pathway activation and epigenetic alterations in the context of diabetes development . By integrating findings from epidemiology , in vivo , and in vitro studies , we provide a summary of how environmental exposures may influence diabetes risk through epigenetic mechanisms . Understanding these interactions not only advances our knowledge of DM etiology but also highlights novel molecular targets for preventive and therapeutic strategies . FAU - Matarid , Tasnim R
OBJECTIVE : Neuromuscular junctions , which are responsible for voluntary motor function , are the chemical synapses between motor neurons and skeletal muscle fibers . In this study , we performed a scientometric analysis that can be used to construct and visualize networks of neuromuscular junction model ( NMJM ) using bibliometric methods . MATERIALS AND METHODS : A literature survey for NMJM was conducted using " TS= ( neuromuscular junction model ) , " including literature titles , abstracts , and keywords , under the Web of Science Core Collection ( WoSCC ) . Document production was analyzed by document citation , source journals , authors , highly cited documents , countries , organizations , impact factors . RESULTS : A total of 2046 articles published over the past two decades were retrieved and analyzed . Our results showed that the number of publications in NMJM has increased rapidly over the past 20 years . The most productive author in terms of total publications about NMJM was Thomas H . Gillingwater with 27 documents , who worked at the University of Miami . The geographic distribution of publications showed that majority of them were from the USA . In addition , the research hotspot of NMJM was expanding from the establishment of NMJM to mechanistic studies of diseases . CONCLUSIONS : This study provides a unique perspective for understanding the evaluative history and future trends of NMJM .
BACKGROUND : Evidence suggests that liberal transfusion and anemia correction have negative effects on patients with acute brain injuries ( ABI ) . Such patients with indications for decompressive surgeries require precise and real-time monitoring technology for estimation of intraoperative hemoglobin in order to assess the need for transfusion . AIMS : The primary objective was to evaluate non-invasive hemoglobin ( SpHb ) monitoring as a guide for red blood cell transfusion ( RBCT ) during emergency decompressive craniotomy in ABI patients . The secondary objectives were to evaluate the incidence of postoperative infections , length of ICU stay , duration of mechanical ventilation , 30-day mortality , and extended Glasgow outcome scale ( E-GOS ) score at 90 days . METHODS AND MATERIAL : Eighty patients ( aged 18-65 ) with ABI requiring decompressive surgery were randomized into two groups of 40 patients each : group A ( SpHb monitoring group ) and group B ( standard care group ) . They were compared for RBCT management , and postoperative infections , ventilator days , length of stay in ICU , E-GOS , and mortality . RESULTS : The number of patients requiring a single RBCT was significantly higher in group A as compared to Group B ( P < 0001 ) . However , patients requiring two transfusions and the total volume of RBCT were higher in group B ( P < 01 ) . Three or more RBCT were required only in Group B ( P 07 ) . The duration of mechanical ventilation was higher in group B as opposed to group A ( P 07 ) . However , there was no significant difference in the hemodynamic variables between the two groups . CONCLUSIONS : The inclusion of continuous SpHb monitoring during decompressive procedures in ABI patients may assist in the optimal management of blood transfusion , thereby reducing transfusion-related complications .
Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy ( FLIM ) is an advanced microscopy technique capable of providing a deeper understanding of the molecular environment of a fluorophore . While FLIM data were traditionally analyzed through the exponential fitting of the fluorophores ' emission decays , the use of phasor plots is increasingly becoming the preferred standard . This is due to their ability to visualize the distribution of fluorescent lifetimes within a sample , offering insights into molecular interactions in the sample without the need for modeling assumptions regarding the exponential decay behavior of the fluorophores . However , so far , most researchers have had to rely on commercial phasor plot software packages which are closed-source and only work with proprietary data formats . In this paper , we introduce FLIMPA , an accessible , open-source , stand-alone software for phasor plot analysis that provides many of the features found in commercial software , and more . FLIMPA is fully developed in Python and offers advanced tools for data analysis and visualization . It enhances FLIM data comparison by integrating phasor points from multiple trials and experimental conditions into a single plot , while also providing the possibility to explore detailed , localized insights within individual samples interactively . We apply FLIMPA to introduce a novel cell-based assay for the quantification of microtubule depolymerization , measured through fluorescence lifetime changes of SiR-tubulin , in response to various concentrations of Nocodazole , a microtubule depolymerizing drug relevant to anticancer treatment . FAU - Kapsiani , Sofia
Surfactants , as foliar sprays , are widely used to increase the uptake of agrichemicals through plant leaf surfaces . Study of the effects of surfactants on plants has mainly focused on investigation of the mechanisms that underlie changes in droplet behavior on leaf surfaces . However , how surfactants may affect leaf chemical composition is largely unknown . The standard analysis techniques that have been widely used for leaf chemical analyses such as mass spectroscopy require complex and extensive sample preparation and leaf tissue destruction . Here , we have used an advanced technique , synchrotron macro-Attenuated Total Reflectance-Fourier Transformed InfraRed spectroscopy ( synchrotron macro-ATR-FTIR ) , which provides a fast , non-destructive and in vivo method to capture the leaf surface and enable the chemical mapping of essential functional groups . The development of two Quasar workflows for analyzing complex FTIR data in this study highlights and strengthens the advantages of synchrotron macro-ATR-FTIR for plant research . We found that the treatment of 5-week-old maize ( Zea mays L . ) leaves with a commercial surfactant , Silwet-L-77 , resulted in alterations in the FTIR spectral signatures associated with lipids , proteins and carbohydrates commencing 1 h after treatment . The effects of the surfactant on maize leaf water droplet behavior and photosynthetic performance were concentration-dependent . Synchrotron macro-ATR-FTIR is thus a newly emerging and powerful analytical technique for quantitative studies in plant physiology and biochemistry , especially for plant responses to external environmental factors including both abiotic and biotic stresses .
BACKGROUND : During secondary palate formation , bilateral palatal shelves grow vertically to a horizontal position . This morphological change of the palatal shelves , defined as the palatal shelf elevation , occurs from embryonic day ( E ) -5 to E14 in mice . Palatal shelves show regional differences in elevation patterns along the anterior-posterior ( AP ) axis ; however , the underlying mechanisms remain unclear . Material properties of the lingual/nasal and buccal/oral surfaces , especially stiffness , possibly contribute to different elevation patterns . RESULTS : Indentation test using atomic force microscopy was performed to measure the stiffness at the epithelial surface of the palatal shelf . Measurement of palatal shelf stiffness along the AP axis before and after elevation revealed that the lingual/nasal surface was softer than the buccal/oral surface in the posterior region before elevation and that the palatal shelf was stiffer after elevation than before elevation . Moreover , the thickness of epithelial cells on the lingual/nasal side was lower than that on the buccal/oral side before elevation . CONCLUSION : Overall , our results suggest that epithelial cell thickness affects epithelial surface stiffness , causing regional differences in elevation patterns .
The winter tick , Dermacentor albipictus , is a significant North American ectoparasite , posing health risks to ruminants and occasionally humans . Despite its ecological importance , limited genomic resources exist for this species . This study provides the first comprehensive transcriptomic analysis of the recently published winter tick genome , focusing on tissues isolated from early-stage embryos , sexed adults , dissected ovaries , and dissected male reproductive systems . We identified the most abundant gene ontologies and analyzed differential gene expression . Differential gene expression revealed significant sex-biased expression patterns , and functional annotations identified candidate genes involved in sex determination . Notably , we identified the first documented case of sex-specific splicing of a doublesex-like gene in chelicerates , a mechanism previously thought to be absent in this clade . These transcriptome data serve as a critical resource for understanding the biology of D . albipictus and will facilitate the development of novel genetic technologies aimed at population suppression and reduction of tick-borne illnesses .
FeF is considered a high-capacity conversion cathode for next-generation lithium-ion batteries due to its high energy density . However , FeF struggles with poor electronic conductivity , slow reaction kinetics , and serious interfacial side reactions , leading to rapid cell degradation during cycling . In this study , a vapor self-polymerization method is employed to fabricate a polypyrrole ( PPy ) coating on FeF , which acts as an artificial cathode electrolyte interface with improved electronic and ionic conductivities . Additionally , the PPy-derived carbon coating is also prepared , and a systematic comparison study of these two coatings is conducted . The PPy-derived carbon coating has higher electronic conductivity than the PPy coating . However , the merging of the carbon coating , followed by the agglomeration of particles during the carbonization process , hinders the transport of lithium ions . Consequently , the PPy-coated FeF positive electrode exhibits better cycling and capacity retention performance than the PPy-derived carbon coating , owing to the fast diffusion kinetics and low voltage hysteresis , in which the discharge capacity of 2 mAh g ( -1 ) over 100 cycles is achieved . This work provides a feasible technology to fabricate a conductive polymer coating on metal fluorides and offers a perspective on the selection of coating materials for battery applications . FAU - Bai , Jinwu
The identification of alternative cell death pathways is key to developing therapies for apoptosis-resistant cancers . We investigated cell death induced by delocalized lipophilic cation ( DLC ) nanoaggregates in A549 lung carcinoma cells . These DLCs trigger a dynamin-dependent , nonapoptotic pathway involving cytoplasmic vesicle accumulation and mitochondrial dysfunction . Leveraging the mitochondria-targeting ability of lipophilic cations , we designed and synthesized fluorescent mitochondrion-toxic molecules with potent cytotoxicity against A549 , MDA-MB-231 , and MCF-7 cells . Dynamic light scattering revealed the nanoaggregate formation of the lead compound , L3 , in the RPMI media . L3 inhibited metastasis and clonal expansion , induced vacuole formation post endocytosis , and impaired the mitochondrial function , disrupting ATP levels . This led to mitochondrial permeability transition pore ( MPTP ) opening and oxidative imbalance via glutathione perturbation . L3 demonstrated strong antitumor activity in vitro and in vivo , showing high potential for treating apoptosis-resistant cancers . FAU - Dewan , Sayari
We report an optically transparent carbon electrode-silicon nitride ( OTCE-SiN ( x ) ) window platform fabricated through clean-room microfabrication techniques . A wafer-scale fabrication process was implemented , which enabled a batch preparation of 2925 windows ( 100 x 100 mum ) in user-friendly configurations . Application of OTCE-SiN ( x ) windows is demonstrated in the high-resolution structural and nanoscale electrochemical characterization of nanocrystals by transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) and electrochemical scanning probe microscopy . High-resolution TEM ( HR-TEM ) and aberration-corrected high-angle annular dark-field TEM ( HAADF-TEM ) were achieved for nanocrystals supported on the OTCE-SiN ( x ) , with minimal background electron scattering or interference from the OTCE-SiN ( x ) . Additionally , the stability of OTCE-SiN ( x ) under prolonged voltammetric cycling was investigated . Scanning electrochemical cell microscopy ( SECCM ) revealed uniform nanoscale electrochemistry . Correlative electrochemical and electron microscopy on OTCE-SiN ( x ) was demonstrated for the hydrogen evolution reaction ( HER ) at clusters of sub-10 nm Au nanospheres . FAU - Alden , Sasha E
Small extracellular vesicles ( sEV ) derived from mesenchymal stem cells hold promise for anti-skin aging , yet their clinical application is hindered by poor transdermal permeability . Herein , we report an innovative light-controlled sEV-based spherical nucleic acid nanomotor ( NM-ESNA ) . This nanosystem was composed of an sEV core and an MMP1-targeting siRNA shell , forming a 3D penetrative nanostructure . In addition , asymmetrically modified light-responsive gas-generating molecules were integrated into the nanomotor , enabling efficient dermal delivery . The light-controlled and enhanced transdermal delivery guaranteed synergistic anti-skin aging therapy through sEV-mediated paracrine effects and gene therapy targeting MMP1 in the dermis . On the basis of this deep transdermal delivery technology and the synergistic therapy strategy , NM-ESNA demonstrated outstanding anti-skin aging effects in a mouse model . This biocompatible nanosystem ( NM-ESNA ) enabled light-controlled and deep transdermal delivery , establishing a therapeutic platform with significant potential for sEV-based noninvasive anti-skin aging therapy . FAU - Li , Yu
EphA2 receptor tyrosine kinase is overexpressed in many solid tumors and serves as a key driver of tumorigenesis and metastasis . It is highly expressed in glioblastoma multiforme , the most aggressive brain tumor in adults , and in its stem cells [glioblastoma stem cells ( GSCs ) ] , which contribute to treatment resistance and tumor relapse . In a previous study , we used the Systematic Evolution of Ligands by Exponential Enrichment ( SELEX ) procedure , a method for selecting high-affinity nucleic acids to specific targets via iterative selection and amplification , to identify the 2 ' -fluorinated EphA2-targeting RNA aptamer A40L and a truncated 30-mer derivative , A40s . Both aptamers were able to inhibit GSC growth , stemness , and migration upon EphA2 binding . Here , by integrating computational and experimental methods , the A40s structure was unraveled and its interaction with EphA2 was investigated . Our model offers a blueprint to accelerate the development of optimized A40s variants , advancing next-generation EphA2-targeted anticancer therapies . FAU - Diakogiannaki , Isidora
Antibodies ( Abs ) conjugated with particle-emitting radioisotopes are used for cancer therapy , and the CD25 receptor ( IL-2Ralpha ) is a promising target for lymphomas . We functionalized an anti-CD25 Ab with TCO-PEG-maleimide , specifically on sulfhydryl moieties , at 89 molecules per Ab . Radiosynthesis was achieved by efficiently prelabeling DOTA-PEG-tetrazine with Lu at a high temperature and then linking it to the TCO-conjugated Abs via facile click chemistry under mild conditions . The [Lu]Lu-DOTA-PEG-Tz-TCO-PEG-anti-CD25 Ab ( Lu-CD25 Ab ) had a radiochemical purity of >99% , a specific activity of 9 +/- 5 MBq/mg , an immunoreactive fraction of 6% , and high radiolabel stability in serum for up to 7 days . CD25-positive SUDHL1 human T lymphoma cells showed Lu-CD25 Ab uptake that was completely blocked by pretreatment with unlabeled Ab . The Lu-CD25 Ab dose-dependently suppressed SUDHL1 cell survival in vitro . In mice , Lu-CD25 Ab uptake at 5 days was high in the SUDHL1 tumors ( 1 +/- 6%ID/g ) , modest in the liver , kidneys , and spleen , and low in the blood , lungs , and bones . CD25-specific targeting was confirmed by 7% suppression of tumor uptake by pretreatment with unlabeled CD25 Ab . Treatment with 5 MBq of Lu-CD25 Ab shrank the xenograft tumors , and they remained undetectable until study termination on day In contrast , the tumors in all control and CD25 Ab-treated mice grew to exceed the end point criterion of 2 , 000 mm . The standardized tumor growth rate and 19-day tumor volume were completely suppressed in the Lu-CD25 Ab group ( 9 +/- 5 and 6 +/- 5 mm ) , compared with the control ( 9 +/- 1 and 5 +/- 1 mm ) and CD25 Ab groups ( 7 +/- 2 and 8 +/- 4 mm ; all p < 001 ) . A Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that Lu-CD25 Ab-treated mice survived significantly longer than mice in the control and CD25 Ab groups . Tumors in a separate set of mice that were treated with Lu-CD25 Ab displayed increased PARP1 cleavage fragments , a signature of apoptosis . Toxicity studies showed that white blood cell , red blood cell , and platelet counts in the Lu-CD25 Ab group decreased from days 3-14 , reaching a nadir on days 17-21 and returning to the normal range by days 24- Liver and renal function tests on day 28 did not differ from those of untreated mice . Thus , the Lu-CD25 Ab prepared as described here could be useful for radioimmunotherapy of CD25-positive lymphomas . FAU - Kang , Choong Mo
The genome is organized into distinct chromatin compartments with at least two main classes , a transcriptionally active A and an inactive B compartment , broadly corresponding to euchromatin and heterochromatin . Chromatin regions within the same compartment preferentially interact with each other over regions in the opposite compartment . A/B compartments are traditionally identified from ensemble Hi-C contact frequency matrices using principal component analysis of their covariance matrices . However , defining compartments at the single-cell level from sparse single-cell Hi-C data is challenging , especially since homologous copies are often not resolved . To address this , we present MaxComp , an unsupervised method , for inferring single-cell A/B compartments based on 3D geometric considerations in single-cell chromosome structures-derived either from multiplexed FISH-omics imaging or 3D structure models derived from Hi-C data . By representing each 3D chromosome structure as an undirected graph with edge-weights encoding structural information , MaxComp reformulates compartment prediction as a variant of the Max-cut problem , solved using semidefinite graph programming ( SPD ) to optimally partition the graph into two structural compartments . Our results show that the population average of MaxComp single-cell compartment annotations closely matches those derived from ensemble Hi-C principal component analysis , demonstrating that compartmentalization can be recovered from geometric principles alone , using only the 3D coordinates and nuclear microenvironment of chromatin regions . Our approach reveals widespread cell-to-cell variability in compartment organization , with substantial heterogeneity across genomic loci . When applied to multiplexed FISH imaging data , MaxComp also uncovers relationships between compartment annotations and transcriptional activity at the single-cell level . In summary , MaxComp offers a new framework for understanding chromatin compartmentalization in single cells , connecting 3D genome architecture , and transcriptional activity with the cell-to-cell variations of chromatin compartments .
Wavelet analysis has been recognized as a widely used and promising tool in the fields of signal processing and data analysis . However , the application of wavelet-based method in single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) data is little known . Here , we present M-band wavelet-based scRNA-seq multi-view clustering of cells ( WMC ) . We applied for integration of M-band wavelet analysis and uniform manifold approximation and projection ( UMAP ) to a panel of single cell sequencing datasets by breaking up the data matrix into an approximation or low resolution component and M-1 detail or high resolution components . Our method is armed with multi-view clustering of cell types , identity , and functional states , enabling missing cell types visualization and new cell types discovery . Distinct to standard scRNA-seq workflow , our wavelet-based approach is a new addition to uncover rare cell types with a fine resolution .
BACKGROUND : The coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) pandemic has had a profound global impact . Therapeutic strategies to bridge the crucial ' lockdown ' timespan between the emergence of a new virus and vaccine rollout are needed . METHODS : We recently demonstrated that intranasal ( i . n . ) administration of COVID-19 convalescent plasma ( CCP ) in sentinel hamsters can limit severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) transmission from acutely infected index littermates . The current study investigates if functional immunity develops during i . n . prophylaxis in the same model . RESULTS : Lung tissue was free from infectious virus and pneumonia in sentinel hamsters after i . n . CCP prophylaxis , unlike those receiving non-immune control plasma ( NIP ) . However , throat swabs from both groups contained viral RNA similar to intentionally infected index littermates . Anti-receptor binding domain ( RBD ) antibodies were detected in plasma from both sentinel groups two days after it showed in index littermates . This immune response was functional because all sentinel hamsters were protected from reinfection by the same viral strain . CONCLUSION : Our findings demonstrate that i . n . CCP prophylaxis prevents lung disease in hamsters by restraining the infection to the upper respiratory tract , while still promoting a functional humoral immune response that protects against reinfection .
Although much is known of the molecular mechanisms of virus infection within cells , substantially less is understood about within-host infection . Such knowledge is key to understanding how viruses take up residence and transmit infectious virus , in some cases throughout the life of the host . Here , using murine polyomavirus ( muPyV ) as a tractable model , we monitor parallel infections of thousands of differentially barcoded viruses within a single host . In individual mice , we show that numerous viruses ( >2600 ) establish infection and are maintained for long periods post-infection . Strikingly , a low level of many different barcodes is shed in urine at all times post-infection , with a minimum of at least 80 different barcodes present in every sample throughout months of infection . During the early acute phase , bulk shed virus genomes derive from numerous different barcodes . This is followed by long term persistent infection detectable in diverse organs . Consistent with limited productive exchange of virus genomes between organs , each displays a unique pattern of relative barcode abundance . During the persistent phase , constant low-level shedding of typically hundreds of barcodes is maintained but is overlapped with rare , punctuated shedding of high amounts of one or a few individual barcodes . In contrast to the early acute phase , these few infrequent highly shed barcodes comprise the majority of bulk shed genomes observed during late times of persistent infection , contributing to a stark decrease in bulk barcode diversity that is shed over time . These temporally shifting patterns , which are conserved across hosts , suggest that polyomaviruses balance continuous transmission potential with reservoir-driven high-level reactivation . This offers a mechanistic basis for polyomavirus ubiquity and long-term persistence , which are typical of many DNA viruses .
Numerous studies have highlighted the anti-cancer effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( NSAIDs ) , although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear . This study focuses on elucidating the impact of the NSAID ibuprofen ( IBU ) on cancer cells exposed to hypoxia , as the hypoxic microenvironment significantly influences tumor progression , metastatic potential , and therapy resistance . Given that carbonic anhydrase IX ( CA IX ) is a key hypoxia-associated protein and a promising therapeutic target due to its tumor-specific expression , we primarily examined the impact of IBU on CA IX and the transcription factors regulating CA IX expression . We found that IBU downregulates expression and protein level of CA IX in hypoxic colon carcinoma and head and neck cancer cells , resulting in a reduction of membranous CA IX . To elucidate the mechanism of this phenomenon , we analyzed the key CA IX-regulating transcription factor HIF-1 and found decreased levels of the HIF-1alpha subunit in IBU-treated cells , leading to its impaired binding to the CA9 promotor . Analysis of another transcription factor involved in CA IX expression , NFkappaB , showed suppressed NFkappaB pathway under IBU treatment . Moreover , we demonstrated IBU-mediated induction in apoptosis in cancer cells , as well as a decrease in their ability to migrate . Our study is the first to demonstrate that ibuprofen downregulates carbonic anhydrase IX expression in hypoxic colon and head and neck tumor cells by decreasing HIF-1alpha levels . Additionally , ibuprofen impairs key transcription factors NFkappaB and STAT3 , leading to reduced adaptation to hypoxic stress , decreased tumor cell viability , and migration . This indicates its potential as a therapeutic agent in combination therapy for colon carcinoma or head and neck cancer .
Flowering and secondary growth are two important biological processes in plant development , and there is a close association between flowering and xylem expansion in stem and root secondary growth . Here , we report the discovery of NAC secondary wall thickening promoting factor 3 ( BnaANST3 ) , a key regulator of secondary cell wall formation in xylem fiber cells that affects B . napus ( Brassica napus L . ) flowering in a photoperiod pathway-dependent manner . We show that the subfunctionalized BnaANST3 directly binds to the BnaCNF-YC9 and Bna . CO promoters to regulate their transcription . BnaCNF-YC9 interacts with Bna . CO , forming NFCO complexes that regulate Bna . FT transcription , thereby affecting flowering . Moreover , we found that florigen upregulated secondary cell wall biogenesis ( SCWB ) -related genes including BnaANST3 , accelerating SCWB in stems and promoting vascular maturation and adaptation of the shoot system to meet the plant ' s mechanical support needs during the reproductive phase . Our results provide insights into the connection between flowering and secondary growth and suggest gene targets for cultivating B . napus lines that flower at the optimal time .
Lysine-specific histone demethylase 1A ( LSD1 ) is an epigenetic regulator involved in various biological processes , including metabolic pathways . We demonstrated the therapeutic potential of its pharmacological inhibition in glioblastoma using DDP_38003 ( LSD1i ) , which selectively targets tumor-initiating cells ( TICs ) by hampering their adaptability to stress . Through biological , metabolic , and omic approaches , we now show that LSD1i acts as an endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stressor , activating the integrated stress response and altering mitochondrial structure and function . These effects impair TICs ' oxidative metabolism and generate reactive oxygen species , further amplifying cellular stress . LSD1i also impairs TICs ' glycolytic activity , causing their metabolic decline . TICs with enhanced glycolysis benefit from LSD1-directed therapy . Conversely , metabolically silent TICs mantain ER and mitochondrial homeostasis , adapting to stress conditions , including LSD1i treatment . A dropout short hairpin RNA screening identifies postglycosylphosphatidylinositol attachment to proteins inositol deacylase 1 ( PGAP1 ) as a mediator of resistance to LSD1i . Disruptions in ER and mitochondrial balance holds promise for improving LSD1-targeted therapy efficacy and overcoming treatment resistance . FAU - Marotta , Giulia
Traditional dynamic random access memory ( DRAM ) technology faces grand challenges in power consumption due to the constant data refresh and in density due to the physical limit for dimension scaling . Recently , two-transistor zero-capacitor ( 2T0C ) DRAM based on amorphous indium gallium zinc oxide ( IGZO ) exhibits long data retention owing to its extremely low off-state leakage current . Furthermore , the low thermal budget of the IGZO channel enables the monolithic three-dimensional ( 3D ) stacking for higher bit density beyond the planar scaling limit . However , the demonstration of 3D stacking for IGZO has been limited to 2T0C DRAM single cell . In this work , an 8 by 8 3D stacked IGZO 2T0C DRAM array was designed and manufactured with optimized electrical characteristics , exhibiting 3-bit storage with over 100-second retention time . Furthermore , a neural network model has been demonstrated to achieve an accuracy of 95% in image recognition , providing for promising pathway toward computing in memory to overcome the " memory wall . " FAU - Li , Qijun
It is essential to spatiotemporally control the microniche of wound at different healing stages for rapid and scarless healing . Hence , a multifunctional soft hydrogel integrated with programmed drug release capability ( MLVgel ) was fabricated . MLVgel is adhesive and moldable with low friction response , which provides moisture and responses to an infectious environment to deliver bactericidal and antioxidant effects in rat bacterial infection and burn wound models . By release control , instant short-term inflammation suppression is combined with sustained mechano-transduction signal inhibition . This dynamically modulates immune responses and delays En1 ( + ) fibroblast activation via the YAP-TEAD pathway , ultimately facilitating scarless wound regeneration . Genomic analyses showed that the enhanced reepithelization and mechanoregulation by MLVgel during different wound phases are indispensable for its therapeutic outcomes . Last , MLVgel resulted in markedly improved healing in a pig mature scar model , which demonstrated its translation potential . Our results also verified the necessity of programed dynamic regulation in the healing process . FAU - Shu , Haozhou
Chronic stress exposure is a primary contributor to the development of anxiety disorders , closely associated with hippocampal dysfunction . However , the underlying molecular mechanism remains poorly understood . Here , using a mouse model of chronic restraint stress ( CRS ) , we observed a notable increase in the activity , rather than its overall expression level , of hippocampal Rap1 , a small guanosine triphosphatase belonging to the Ras superfamily . Pharmacological inhibition of Rap1 activity in the ventral hippocampus ( vHPC ) effectively mitigated CRS-induced anxiety . Cell type-specific manipulation of Rap1 activity revealed that Rap1 dysfunction in vHPC pyramidal neurons ( PNs ) , but not in astrocytes or interneurons , contributed to CRS-induced anxiety-like behaviors . Mechanistically , the heightened Rap1 activity in vHPC PNs augmented their intrinsic excitability through Kv2 phosphorylation at the Thr site , which contributes to the onset of anxiety-like behaviors in mice following CRS . Overall , our study reveals a previously undescribed anxiogenic effect of Rap1 and highlights it as a potential target for therapeutic intervention in stress-related mental disorders . FAU - Pan , Han-Qing
Multiple factors drive biomolecular condensate formation . In plants , condensation of the transcription factors AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 7 ( ARF7 ) and ARF19 attenuates response to the plant hormone auxin . Here , we report that actin-mediated movement of cytoplasmic ARF condensates enhances condensation . Coarse-grained molecular simulations of active polymers reveal that applied forces drive the associations of macromolecules to enhance phase separation while giving rise to dense phases that preferentially accumulate motile molecules . Our study highlights how molecular motility can drive phase separation , with implications for motile condensates while offering insights into cellular mechanisms that can regulate condensate dynamics . FAU - Chauhan , Gaurav
Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) constitutes over 80% of lung cancer cases and remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide . Despite the advent of immune checkpoint inhibitors , their efficacy is limited to 27 to 45% of patients . Identifying likely treatment responders is essential for optimizing healthcare and improving quality of life . We generated multiplex immunofluorescence ( mIF ) images , histopathology , and RNA sequencing data from human NSCLC tissues . Through the analysis of mIF images , we characterized the spatial organization of 5 million cells based on the expression levels for 33 biomarkers . To enable large-scale characterization of tumor microenvironments , we developed NucSegAI , a deep learning model for automated nuclear segmentation and cellular classification in histology images . With this model , we analyzed the morphological , textural , and topological phenotypes of 6 million cells across 119 whole-slide images . Through unsupervised phenotype discovery , we identified specific lymphocyte phenotypes predictive of immunotherapy response . Our findings can improve patient stratification and guide selection of effective therapeutic regimens . FAU - Zheng , Yuanning
The self-renewal of intestinal stem cells ( ISCs ) is essential for maintaining intestinal homeostasis and ensuring regeneration of the intestinal epithelium . However , whether small nucleolar RNAs participate in the regulation of ISC self-renewal remains unclear . Here , we identified a small nucleolar RNA ( Snora54 ) that was highly expressed in the nucleolus of ISCs . Snora54 knockout enhanced the self-renewal capacity of ISCs and intestinal regeneration . Mechanistically , in a steady state , highly expressed Snora54 anchored the nucleolar protein Lyar in the nucleolus of ISCs , preventing Lyar from translocation into the nucleoplasm . Thereby , Lyar failed to recruit on the Notch2 promoter region in the nucleoplasm to promote Notch2 transcription , leading to suppression of ISC self-renewal . By contrast , with deletion of Snora54 , Lyar translocated to the nucleoplasm of ISCs where it enriched on the Notch2 promoter to initiate its transcription resulting in the activation of Notch2 signaling pathway . Therefore , Snora54 negatively regulates self-renewal of ISCs and gut regeneration via suppression of Notch2 signaling . FAU - Zhang , Jiahang
The development of the airway epithelium in asthma is unclear . We characterized nasal airway epithelial cell ( NAEC ) developmental phenotypes from children aged 2 to 3 years in an a priori designed nested birth cohort from four mutually exclusive groups of wheezers/nonwheezers and respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) -infected/uninfected in the first year of life . NAECs were differentiated , followed by single-cell RNA sequencing analysis and in vitro RSV infection . Gene expression of NAECs from children with a wheeze phenotype indicated abnormal differentiation and basal cell activation of developmental pathways , plasticity in precursor differentiation , delayed onset of maturation , increased diversity of RSV receptors , and blunted antiviral immune responses to in vitro RSV infection . The most marked changes in differentiation were observed in NAECs from children with both wheeze and RSV in the first year of life . Together , this suggests that airway epithelium in children with wheeze is developmentally reprogrammed and characterized by increased barrier permeability , decreased antiviral response , and altered RSV receptor expression . FAU - Berdnikovs , Sergejs
The adult mammalian heart has limited regenerative capacity due to the low proliferative ability of cardiomyocytes , whereas embryonic cardiomyocytes exhibit robust proliferative potential . Using single-cell RNA sequencing of embryonic hearts , we identified prothymosin alpha ( PTMA ) as a key factor driving cardiomyocyte proliferation . Overexpression of PTMA in primary mouse and rat cardiomyocytes significantly promoted cardiomyocyte proliferation and similarly enhanced proliferation in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes . Conditional knockout of Ptma in cardiomyocytes impaired neonatal heart regeneration . AAV9-mediated overexpression of Ptma extended the neonatal proliferative window and showed therapeutic promise for enhancing adult heart regeneration . Mechanistically , PTMA interacted with MBD3 , inhibiting its deacetylation activity within the MBD3/HDAC1 NuRD complex . This inhibition increased STAT3 acetylation , which positively regulated STAT3 phosphorylation and activation of its target genes . These findings establish PTMA as a critical regulator of heart regeneration and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for ischemic myocardial injury . FAU - Liu , Ning
Aggressive brain tumors often exhibit immunologically ' cold ' microenvironment , where the vascular barrier impedes effective immunotherapy in poorly understood ways . Tumor vasculature also plays a pivotal role in immunoregulation and antitumor immunity . Here , we show that small GTPase Rab27 controls the vascular morphogenesis and permeability for blood content and immune effectors . Thus , in Rab27a/b double knock out ( Rab27-dKO ) mice , the brain vasculature is abnormally scarce , while the blood vessels become dysmorphic and hyperpermeable in the context of brain tumors , including syngeneic glioblastoma . These defects are reflected in rearrangements of endothelial cell subpopulations with underlying diminution of venous endothelial subtype along with changes in gene and protein expression . Notably , Rab27-dKO brain endothelial cells exhibit deficient tight junctions , whereby they enable large-scale extravasation of cytotoxic T cells into the tumor mass . We show that Rab27-regulated vascular T cell infiltration can be exploited to enhance adoptive T cell therapy in syngeneic brain tumors . FAU - Adnani , Lata
AMBRA1 is a tumor suppressor protein that functions as a substrate receptor in the ubiquitin conjugation system and regulates the stability of D-type cyclins and cell proliferation . Here , we present the cryo-EM structure of cyclin D1-bound AMBRA1-DDB1 complex at 55-A resolution . The structure reveals a substrate interaction surface on the AMBRA1 WD40 domain that specifically binds to the C-terminal region of D-type cyclins . This interaction is dependent on the phosphorylation of Thr residue in the C-terminal phosphodegron site of D-type cyclins . The phosphodegron motif folds into a turn-like conformation , followed by a 3 helix that promotes its assembly with AMBRA In addition , we show that AMBRA1 mutants , which are defective in cyclin D1 binding , lead to cyclin D1 accumulation and DNA damage . Understanding the AMBRA1-D-type cyclin structure enhances the knowledge of the molecular mechanisms that govern the cell cycle control and may lead to potential therapeutic approaches for cancers linked to abnormal cyclin D activity . FAU - Wang , Yang
Action potentials are initiated and modulated at the axon initial segment ( AIS ) by highly clustered ion channels . Voltage-gated Kv1 potassium channels underlie most outward AIS K ( + ) current . AIS Kv1 channels exist in a large protein complex including ADAM22 , Caspr2 , and LGI However , their clustering mechanisms remain unknown . Because Kv1 channels have a highly conserved PDZ-binding motif , we used CRISPR-based genome editing to screen 18 PDZ domain-containing proteins identified in our previous AIS proximity proteome for their AIS localization . Among these , we found that the scaffolding proteins SCRIB and PSD93 are highly enriched at the AIS . Using CRISPR-mediated knockout , cell surface clustering assays , and coimmunoprecipitation , we show that SCRIB and PSD93 bind to and are required for AIS Kv1 channel clustering , whereas SCRIB links the AIS Kv1 channel protein complex to the master AIS scaffolding protein AnkyrinG . These results define a hierarchy of scaffolding proteins that combine to cluster AIS Kv1 channels . FAU - Zhang , Wei
Tumor hypoxia leads to radioresistance and markedly worse clinical outcomes for pediatric malignant rhabdoid tumors ( MRTs ) . Our transcriptomics and bioenergetic profiling data reveal that mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation is a metabolic vulnerability of MRT and can be exploited to overcome consumptive hypoxia by repurposing an FDA-approved antimalarial drug , atovaquone ( AVO ) . We then establish the utility of oxygen-enhanced-multispectral optoacoustic tomography , a label-free , ionizing radiation-free imaging modality , to visualize and quantify spatiotemporal changes in tumor hypoxia in response to AVO . We show a potent but transient increase in tumor oxygenation upon AVO treatment that results in complete elimination of tumors in all tested mice when combined with 10-gray radiotherapy , a dose several times lower than the current clinic standard . Last , we use translational mathematical modeling for systematic evaluation of dosing regimens , administration timing , and therapeutic synergy in a virtual patient cohort . Together , our work establishes a framework for safe and pediatric patient-friendly image-guided metabolic radiosensitization of rhabdoid tumors . FAU - Xia , Wenxi
PURPOSE : To test whether differences in pupil responses to melanopsin-isolating spectral stimuli in glaucoma may be useful as a diagnostic biomarker . METHODS : Spectral stimuli were presented to 20 glaucoma and 15 age-similar healthy control participants . Stimuli were pairs of silent-substitution spectra designed to provide equal stimulation to cone photoreceptors but maximum ( ~325% ) contrast to melanopsin or equal stimulation to melanopsin but ~325% contrast to cones . Narrowband long-wavelength/red ( 657 nm ) and short-wavelength/blue ( 471 nm ) pulses were also presented from a dark background to 16 glaucoma and 12 control participants . Pulses lasted 3 seconds and pupil size was measured for 15 seconds . Pupil response metrics were compared by t-test and relationships with visual field and OCT summary indices were assessed by Spearman ' s rank correlation . Diagnostic accuracy was measured by area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC ) . RESULTS : Pupil constriction was more persistent after pulse offset for the melanopsin-directed stimulus ( 2% mean paired difference 6s post-pulse offset , p < 001 ) . All pupil parameters were similar between groups ( p = 04-90 ) for all stimuli . Correlations between pupil response parameters and visual field summary indices and circumpapillary retinal nerve fibre layer thickness were weak ( rho 02-57 , all p > 05 ) . Diagnostic accuracy for all pupil parameters was poor , with AUC 95% confidence intervals overlapping 5 for all but time to maximal constriction for the cone-directed stimulus . CONCLUSIONS : Pupil responses to melanopsin-isolating spectra were similar between glaucoma and control participants . Pupillary responses to melanopsin-isolating silent substitution spectra are unlikely to be useful as a diagnostic biomarker for glaucoma .
Hemicorporectomy , or translumbar amputation , is a radical surgical procedure in which the lower half of the body is removed . To date , 79 cases have been reported in the literature . We conducted a systematic review of the literature of articles published in peer-reviewed journals after 1990 on independent cases of hemicorporectomies . Individual case reports published before 1990 were excluded ; however , a review paper from 1990 was included as a retrospective cohort and a source of comparison . Twenty-seven studies with an average follow-up period of 2 years reported on 40 patients who underwent hemicorporectomy from 1990 to Average age at surgery was 8 years , and 5% were male . The most common indications for the procedure were osteomyelitis of the pelvis ( 35% ) , squamous cell carcinoma ( 5% ) , and trauma ( 5% ) . Trauma had the lowest mortality rate ( 20% ) , while osteomyelitis had the highest ( 39% ) . This systematic review of 40 hemicorporectomy cases between 1990 and 2022 shows promising results , with many patients achieving significant recovery milestones , such as mobility and employment . These findings suggest that , despite its radical nature , the procedure can be a safe option for critical patients with no other feasible alternatives . FAU - Greendyk , Joshua D
Amebiasis , caused by Entamoeba histolytica , is a global health concern , affecting millions and causing significant mortality , particularly in areas with poor sanitation . Although recent studies have examined E . histolytica ' s interaction with human intestinal microbes , the impact of bacterial presence on the parasite ' s motility , mechanical forces , and their potential role in altering invasiveness have not been fully elucidated . In this study , we utilized a micropillar-array system combined with live imaging to investigate the effects of enteropathogenic Escherichia coli on E . histolytica ' s motility characteristics , F-actin spatial localization , and traction force exerted on fibronectin-coated substrates . Our findings indicate that co-incubation with live enteropathogenic E . coli significantly enhances the motility of E . histolytica , as evidenced by superdiffusive movement-characterized by increased directionality and speed-resulting in broader dispersal and more extensive tissue/cell damage . This increased motility is accompanied by a reduction in F-actin-dependent traction forces and podosome-like structures on fibronectin-coated substrates , but with increased F-actin localization in the upper part of the cytoplasm . These findings highlight the role of physical interactions and cellular behaviors in modulating the parasite ' s virulence , providing new insights into the mechanistic basis of its pathogenicity .
Compelling evidence links age-related brain dysfunction and neurodegenerative processes to persistent disruptions in intracellular calcium ( Ca2+ ) signaling , a central hypothesis in the Ca2+ theory of aging . Calbindin ( CB ) , a classical Ca2+ buffer , has been implicated in region-specific susceptibility to aging-related effects . Specifically , CB-immunopositive ( CB+ ) neurons have demonstrated an age-dependent decline in neuronal number across various cortical and subcortical regions . However , it remains unclear whether this decrease occur in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus ( DLG ) , a crucial relay and modulatory center for visual processing . Additionally , the potential impact of aging on the cellular volume of CB+ neurons in the DLG has not been fully elucidated , albeit an age-dependent neuronal hypertrophy of this region has been reported . To address these questions , we investigated CB+ neurons in the DLG of six marmosets ( Callithrix jacchus ) , aged between 29-143 months . Using design-based stereological techniques , we estimated the total number and somal volume of CB+ neurons in DLG layers . Our results revealed no signs of CB+ neuronal number loss and somal volumetric changes in aged DLG , particularly within the koniocellular layers , a stratum that primarily expresses CB and play a critical role in blue/yellow color vision . Altogether , our findings suggest a preserved neuronal number and cellular volume of the CB+ population during aging process in the marmoset DLG . Moreover , they provide a valuable basis for future investigations into the neuroprotective role of CB in visual processing during aging and open avenues for strategies designed to preserve vulnerable neuronal populations in age-related neurodegenerative conditions .
High circulating parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) leading to secondary hyperparathyroidism is proposed to be a key driver of the skeletal phenotype of chronic kidney disease-mineral bone disorder ( CKD-MBD ) leading to high bone turnover and cortical bone deterioration . The association between high PTH and the skeletal phenotype is typically clearly demonstrated in preclinical models of CKD ; however , clinical studies show the relationship between PTH and skeletal outcomes is not as clear . The clinical data have led to a proposed hyporesponsiveness to PTH in the CKD setting with unclear causes . In the current study , we assessed skeletally mature male C57BL/6J mice at 12-weeks and 21-weeks of adenine-induced CKD ( Ad ) with the second timepoint seven weeks longer than we have previously assessed . We found that serum BUN was high in Ad mice in both groups indicating the presence of kidney disease while PTH was higher in 21-wk Ad vs . 12-wk Ad . Despite the higher PTH , bone formation rate in 21-wk Ad mice was lower than 21-wk Ad mice . Additionally , immunohistochemical assessment of the PTH receptor , PTHR1 , and RANKL , a key factor upregulated by PTH , showed a lower percentage of osteocytes positive for the proteins in 21-wk Ad vs . 12-wk Ad . Furthermore , regression analyses demonstrated a positive relationship between serum PTH and PTHR1 and RANKL at 12-weeks , but this relationship was lost by 21-weeks . Overall , these data indicate that prolonged exposure to continuously elevated PTH in adenine-induced CKD mice eventually led to an altered skeletal response indicating lower responsiveness of bone , particularly osteocytes , to the chronic PTH signal . This has implications for using PTH as a surrogate marker of bone outcomes in CKD as well as pointing to the need to better understand the time-based relationship between PTH and skeletal outcomes in CKD .
BACKGROUND : Intra-aortic thrombi with systemic embolization are rare but potentially life-threatening conditions . Known risk factors include hypercoagulability ( e . g . due to inflammation ) and atherosclerosis . CASE SUMMARY : We present a 46-year-old female patient presenting with highly elevated inflammatory parameters due to an atypical community-acquired pneumonia . Stabbing chest pain at admission , negative anterolateral and inferior T-waves on the electrocardiogram and a rise in high-sensitivity troponin T level indicated a diagnostic coronarography which showed no significant coronary stenosis , prompting the diagnosis of an infectious perimyocarditis . Four days after the angiography , the patient experienced multiple systemic thromboembolic events within a timeframe of 24 hours due to a large intra-aortic thrombus . DISCUSSION : The co-occurrence of aortic thrombi following a coronary angiography in a highly inflammatory patient raises the suspicion of inflammation-induced arterial thrombosis subsequent to endothelial cell injury . An overwhelming inflammatory response will increase the levels of coagulation factor VIII - produced by the endothelium and acting as an acute phase protein - and thus the tendency to form blood clots , especially after local damage to the endothelial cells by guidewire or catheter manipulation . Within this case report , we underscore the importance of adopting a cautious strategy when contemplating invasive arterial procedures , or even postpone when not urgently needed , in patients with strongly elevated levels of inflammation . Here , factor VIII levels can act as a guidance even before C-reactive protein levels rise . These interventions carry the risk of causing endothelial cell injury , consequently amplifying the probability of arterial thrombus formation , with a challenging management and treatment . FAU - Meylaers , Michiel
Human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( HIV-1 ) risk groups include , but are not limited to , heterosexual individuals ( HET ) , men-who-have-sex-with-men ( MSM ) , and people who inject drugs ( PWID ) . Although genetically diverse HIV-1 populations are transferred from donor to recipient , systemic infection is often established by a single clone , the transmitted/founder ( T/F ) virus . This phenomenon is especially prevalent in sexual transmission , but less stringent in blood-to-blood contact transmission . Specific traits that permit successful transmission have not been well characterized . Thus , HIV-1 containing the chimeric T/F envelope ( Env ) from different transmission routes was assessed for ex vivo transmission fitness by performing mixed competition assays ( also referred to as mixed competitions ) on human cervical tissues . We found that chimeric T/F viruses isolated from the PWID exhibit limited replication capacity in cervical tissues when compared to those from MSM and HET , diminishing their chances of transmission to T helper type 1 ( Th1 ) and Th17 cells . This reduced transmission fitness of T/F HIV-1 from PWID was not observed when infecting Th1 and Th17 cells directly , bypassing cervical tissues . Phenotypic assays showed that the chimeric T/F viruses from PWID differed from other groups by having an enhanced ability to utilize diverse CCR5 conformations , while Env expression level , CD4/CCR5 utilization , and entry speed did not differ . Different glycosylation profiles were detected on T/F compared to chronic Env with increased complex , fucosylated N- and O-glycans found more frequently on the T/F Env . Furthermore , the increased presence of these fucosylated glycans correlated with replication fitness in cervical tissues . In contrast , bisecting branched N-glycan found more frequently on chronic Env was associated with decreased entry efficiency and more stringent usage of CCR These findings suggest that glycosylation patterns/levels and/or Env structure greatly impact the differences in transmission fitness of T/F HIV-
T cell therapy efficacy can be compromised if cytokine-induced Janus kinase ( JAK ) -signal transducer and activator of transcription ( STAT ) signaling is dysregulated or insufficient to sustain functionality . Here , we demonstrate that LCK kinase activity can be recruited to noncanonical protein substrates to directly activate targeted STAT proteins in T cells . STAT activation was accomplished by engineering the herpesvirus saimiri tyrosine kinase interacting protein ( TIP ) to provide a platform for the enforced recruitment of LCK to STAT proteins . We determined that a minimal region of TIP that binds to LCK could be combined with STAT binding sites derived from endogenous cytokine receptors . These constructs activated targeted STAT proteins in a cytokine-independent manner . We identified a STAT5 activator that sustained CD8+ T cell survival and cytotoxic function ex vivo in the absence of interleukin- Tumor outgrowth was reduced in vivo because of enhanced T cell persistence and functionality . Single-cell transcriptomics revealed that the STAT5 activator prevented the expression of genes associated with an exhausted T cell fate . Our findings demonstrate that signaling pathways can be rewired in T cells to sustain their function in solid tumors . FAU - Zheng , Yating
The immune response exhibits strong circadian rhythmicity , with enhanced bacterial clearance often synchronized with an organism ' s active phase . Despite providing the bulk of cellular antibacterial defense , the neutrophil clockwork is poorly understood . Here , we used larval zebrafish to explore the role of clock genes in neutrophils during infection . Per2 was required in neutrophils for reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and bacterial killing by enhancing infection-responsive expression of high-mobility group box 1a ( hmgb1a ) . The Cry binding domain of Per2 was required for regulation of neutrophil bactericidal activity , and neutrophils lacking Cry1a had elevated bactericidal activity and infection-responsive hmgb1a expression . A conserved cis-regulatory element with BMAL1 and nuclear factor kappaB binding motifs gated infection-responsive hmgb1a expression to the light phase . Mutagenesis of the BMAL1 motif in neutrophils blunted the priming effect of light on bactericidal activity and hmgb1a expression . These findings identify a light-responsive cell-intrinsic timer that controls time-of-day variations in antibacterial activity . FAU - Du , Lucia Yi
Zika virus ( ZIKV ) infection can lead to a variety of clinical outcomes , including severe congenital abnormalities . The phosphatidylserine receptors AXL and TIM-1 are recognized as critical entry factors for ZIKV in vitro . However , it remains unclear whether and how ZIKV regulates these receptors during infection . In this study , we investigated AXL and TIM-1 expression in human lung adenocarcinoma epithelial A549 cells , glioblastoma U87 cells , and embryonic stem cell-derived trophoblasts following ZIKV infection . We found that both the Asian strain FSS13025 and the African strain MR766 of ZIKV downregulate AXL , with a milder effect on TIM- We identified several ZIKV proteins , notably envelope ( E ) , NS2A , NS3 , and NS4B , that contribute to this downregulation . Notably , treatment with lysosomal inhibitor NHCl or the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine mitigated the AXL/TIM-1 downregulation , indicating autophagy ' s involvement in the process . Importantly , this downregulation facilitates sustained viral replication and promotes viral spread by preventing superinfection and limiting cell death , which is also associated with impaired innate immune signaling . Our findings uncover a mechanism by which ZIKV downregulates entry factors to enhance prolonged viral replication and spread . FAU - Yu , Jingyou
NOD-like receptors ( NLRs ) are a highly conserved family of cytosolic pattern recognition receptors that drive innate immune responses against pathogens , pathogen-associated molecular patterns , damage-associated molecular patterns , and homeostatic disruptions . Within the NLR family , NLRP12 was recently identified as a key regulator of PANoptosis , which is an innate immune , lytic cell death pathway initiated by innate immune sensors and driven by caspases and RIPKs through PANoptosome complexes . While NLRP12 activation is critical for maintaining homeostasis , aberrant activation has been implicated in a broad range of disorders , including cancers and metabolic , infectious , autoinflammatory , and hemolytic diseases . However , the molecular mechanisms of NLRP12 activation remain poorly understood . Here , we identified hematopoietic cell kinase ( HCK ) as a regulator of NLRP12-mediated PANoptosis . HCK expression was significantly upregulated in response to NLRP12-PANoptosome triggers . Moreover , Hck knockdown inhibited NLRP12-mediated PANoptosis . Computational analyses identified residues in the putative interaction interface between NLRP12 and HCK , suggesting that HCK likely binds NLRP12 in the region between its NACHT domain and pyrin domain ( PYD ) ; removal of the NLRP12 PYD abrogated this interaction in vitro . Overall , our work identifies HCK as a regulator of NLRP12-mediated PANoptosis , suggesting that it may serve as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating inflammation and pathology . FAU - Nadendla , Eswar Kumar
Astrocytes , the most abundant type of glial cell , play a fundamental role in memory . Despite most hippocampal synapses being contacted by an astrocyte , there are no current theories that explain how neurons , synapses , and astrocytes might collectively contribute to memory function . We demonstrate that fundamental aspects of astrocyte morphology and physiology naturally lead to a dynamic , high-capacity associative memory system . The neuron-astrocyte networks generated by our framework are closely related to popular machine learning architectures known as Dense Associative Memories . Adjusting the connectivity pattern , the model developed here leads to a family of associative memory networks that includes a Dense Associative Memory and a Transformer as two limiting cases . In the known biological implementations of Dense Associative Memories , the ratio of stored memories to the number of neurons remains constant , despite the growth of the network size . Our work demonstrates that neuron-astrocyte networks follow a superior memory scaling law , outperforming known biological implementations of Dense Associative Memory . Our model suggests an exciting and previously unnoticed possibility that memories could be stored , at least in part , within the network of astrocyte processes rather than solely in the synaptic weights between neurons . FAU - Kozachkov , Leo
OBJECTIVE : In the DESTINY-Breast04 trial , human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) low ( HER2-L ) is defined as an HER2 immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) score of 1+ or 2+ with negative fluorescence in situ hybridization . Limited data report poor agreement in scoring HER2-0 vs 1+ . We aim to investigate the HER2 IHC concordance rate , with focus on HER2-0 vs HER2-L groups . We evaluate the impact of a single training session on concordance . METHODS : Nine breast pathologists from the same institution reviewed 60 HER2 IHC stains on breast biopsy specimens in 2 rounds of 30 cases each . An educational slide review session was provided between the 2 rounds . Interobserver Cohen kappa values were computed and compared . RESULTS : Overall complete agreement for HER2 IHC was noted in 37 ( 62% ) of 60 cases , with similar agreement in the first round ( 19/30 [63%] ) and second round ( 18/30 [60%] ) . For all 60 cases , kappa values ranged from . 517 to . 895 , with 92% of kappa values in substantial agreement or better range . For combined HER2-0 and HER2-L cases , kappa values ranged from . 298 to . 826 , with only 45% of kappa values in substantial agreement or better range . In HER2-L only cases , 50% of the scorer pairs of kappa values were 0 or less ( no agreement ) , and only 14% of pairs showed substantial or better agreement . The educational session did not improve the kappa values . Faint and heterogeneous HER2 expression , cytoplasmic blush , dislodged cells , and in situ component led to poor concordance in HER2-0 vs HER2-L . CONCLUSIONS : Poor concordance on HER2-0 vs HER2-L and lack of improvement after a training session likely suggest ineffective HER2 IHC expression range in HER2 low spectrum .
Sepsis , a dysregulated host response to infection , severely affects calf health . To date , sepsis diagnosis relies on clinical examination and positive blood culture . Differently , in humans 16S rRNA gene analysis is a valuable adjunct to blood culture as it allows for broader assessment of bacterial DNA in whole blood and its fractions . However , its efficacy in cattle remains unknown . Therefore , this study characterized and compared the bacterial DNA detected in whole blood and its fractions between healthy calves and those showing clinical signs of sepsis . The study sample was 18 Piedmontese calves classified according to their clinical status as suspected septic ( S , 8/18 ) or healthy ( H , 10/18 ) . Aseptic blood samples were collected into EDTA tubes for 16S rRNA gene analysis of whole blood ( WB ) , plasma ( PL ) , buffy coat ( BC ) , and red blood cells ( RBC ) . Aseptic samples were additionally taken only from the S calves for blood culture . Clinical and microbiological parameters were compared between the two groups and between the blood fractions within each group . The S calves were diagnosed with pneumonia ( 3/8 , 5% ) , enteritis ( 3/8 , 5% ) , and omphalitis ( 2/8 , 25% ) . Microbiome analysis revealed significant intra-group differences in alpha and beta diversity indices between PL and the other blood fractions for both groups . Comparison between the S and the H calves showed differences in beta diversity indices for PL and WB . DNA of known pathogens ( e . g . , Escherichia coli ) and species not commonly associated with sepsis ( e . g . , Cutibacterium acnes ) were more abundant in the S calves . Moreover , in S calves , 16S rRNA gene sequencing detected E . coli DNA more often ( 8/8 , 100% ) than blood culture ( 2/8 , 25% ) . While the DNA of several bacteria can be detected in calves showing clinical signs of sepsis , further studies are needed to clarify its origin , role , and distribution in blood fractions .
BACKGROUND : This study examined the ratio of erythrocyte distribution width ( RDW ) to albumin concentration ( RAR ) and all-cause , cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , and cancer mortality in the hypertension population , focusing on the role of inflammatory markers as mediators . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Data from NHANES ( 1999-2018 ) were analyzed , linking National Death Index ( NDI ) records to mortality outcomes through December 31 , A weighted sampling design categorized participants into three RAR groups . Cox regression models adjusted for demographic and clinical variables assessed the association between RAR and mortality outcomes . Mediation analyses explored the mediating role of the systemic Inflammatory response index ( SIRI ) and neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) . RESULTS : Among 26 , 935 participants with a median follow-up of 102 months and 6 , 007 deaths , elevated RAR was associated with increased risks of all-cause mortality ( HR = 83 , 95% CI : 76-90 ) , cardiovascular disease mortality ( HR = 81 , 95% CI : 68-95 ) , and cancer mortality ( HR = 70 , 95% CI : 55-86 ) . Segmented regression showed a nonlinear relationship between RAR and all-cause mortality , cardiovascular mortality , and cancer mortality , and the threshold effect results showed a fold value of 10 , with a greater HR when RAR < Mediation analysis revealed that SIRI and NLR mediated the relationship between RAR and all-cause mortality by 12% and 00% , respectively . CONCLUSION : In hypertensive populations , higher RAR values are associated with increased all-cause mortality , cardiovascular mortality , and cancer mortality . Inflammation partially mediates the relationship between RAR and all-cause mortality .
Conjugation of an NSAID such as ibuprofen to the head group of oxanorbornane-based lipids and the use of their aggregates as carriers for doxorubicin ( Dox ) are discussed here . These conjugates were characterized by various spectroscopic techniques , including 2D-NMR , and insights into their assembly were gathered through PXRD , AFM , SEM , DLS , and qNano techniques . Free lipids as well as their formulations ( lipid : cholesterol : Dox in a 3 : 5 : 2 molar ratio ) showed a high tendency to form solid lipid particles , which was verified by TEM analysis . The presence of the ibuprofen unit led to an increase in interlipid spacing and a characteristic change in their packing . Active loading through a pH gradient allowed us to achieve high drug entrapment and a controlled release profile . The formulation AT3 , prepared by this method , showed a Dox entrapment of approximately 90% , with a controlled release of approximately 18% by the end of 24 h ; only approximately 66% of the entrapped Dox was released by the end of 5 days . Cytotoxicity studies in NIH3T3 cells and hemolytic assay results showed that these lipids and their formulations have a good safety profile . Results from flow cytometry experiments in A549 cells revealed that the formulation AT3 induces effects similar to free Dox , with cell cycle arrest predominantly at the S phase and G/M phase . At the same time , the response from the blank formulation was comparable to that of the control . Confocal microscopy studies in NIH3T3 and A549 cells showed that free Dox gets localized mainly in the nucleus , while the use of the carrier ( AT3 ) causes significant localization of the drug on the cytoplasmic side as well . ROS induction due to free Dox and its formulation ( AT3 ) in cardiomyocytes and A549 cells was also compared , and the results showed a protective effect in cardiomyocytes when using this formulation . FAU - Saroj , Soumya
Air pollution is a serious environmental threat to public health ; however , the molecular basis underlying its detrimental effects on respiratory fitness remains poorly understood . Here , we show that exposure to particulate matter </=5 microm ( PM5 ) , a significant fraction of air pollutants , induces the generation of reactive aldehyde species in the airway . We identified aldehyde dehydrogenase 1A1 ( ALDH1A1 ) , which is selectively expressed in airway epithelium , as an enzyme responsible for detoxifying these reactive aldehyde species . Loss of ALDH1A1 function results in the accumulation of aldehyde adducts in the airway , which selectively impairs mucociliary clearance ( MCC ) , a critical defense mechanism against respiratory pathogens . Thus , ALDH1A1-deficient mice pre-exposed to PM5 exhibited increased susceptibility to pneumonia . Conversely , pharmacological enhancement of ALDH1A1 activity promoted the restoration of MCC function . These findings elucidate the critical role of aldehyde metabolism in protecting against PM5 exposure , offering a potential target to mitigate the negative health consequences of air pollution . FAU - Shinjyo , Noriko
Postmyocardial infarction ( MI ) , oxidative stress and insufficient blood supply contribute to impaired cardiac repair , while the subsequent formation of fibrotic scar tissue , characterized by poor electrical conductivity , further exacerbates cardiac dysfunction . Here , we compounded the angiogenesis-promoting peptide ( KRX ) with effective pro-angiogenic effects and the conductive material carboxylated carbon nanotubes ( CNTs ) through electrostatic interaction , thus preparing CNT/KRX . Subsequently , we prepared the electroactive hydrogel ( Gel@CK ) by compounding CNT/KRX with the natural polysaccharide hydrogel . This design endows the hydrogel with both electrical conductivity and the function of promoting angiogenesis . In vitro , the hydrogel showed effective scavenging of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , cell compatibility , promoted endothelial cell angiogenesis . In the MI model , the hydrogel significantly promoted angiogenesis and mitigated oxidative stress . Furthermore , it effectively shortened the Q wave , R wave and S wave ( QRS ) interval and enhanced tissue electrical integration . The cardiac function indices measured by echocardiography tests and the immunohistochemical analyses indicate that the hydrogel has improved the cardiac function and reduced the infarct size . This composite hydrogel demonstrates remarkable therapeutic potential for MI and cardiovascular diseases through dual modulation of the myocardial microenvironment and electrical activity . FAU - Luo , Qiuhao
Outer-hair-cell bundles are sensory organelles required for normal hearing in mammals . These bundles convert sound-induced forces into receptor currents . This conversion depends on the resting receptor current of each bundle , which increases when extracellular calcium is decreased to the physiological level . How extracellular calcium regulates the bundle ' s resting state is not well understood . We propose a mechanism explaining how extracellular calcium can regulate the outer-hair-cell bundle ' s resting state . Each bundle comprises filamentous stereocilia linked by gating springs that are attached to ion channels . Sound-induced forces deflect stereocilia , increasing and decreasing gating-spring tensions , opening and closing the ion channels , resulting in an oscillating receptor current . We hypothesize that decreasing extracellular calcium , decreases the heights of the shorter stereocilia , increasing resting gating-spring tensions , which increases the resting receptor current and decreases the bundle ' s resting deflection . To determine the plausibility of this mechanism , we build a mathematical model of an outer-hair-cell bundle and calibrate the model using seven independent experimental observations . The calibrated model shows that the mechanism is quantitatively plausible and predicts that a decrease of only 10 nm in the heights of the shorter stereocilia when extracellular calcium is lowered is sufficient to explain the observed increase in the resting receptor current . The model predicts the values of nine parameters and makes several additional predictions .
Several T cell immune checkpoint blockade therapies have shown initial successes in multiple cancers . However , significant issues remain , including tumor relapse , severe toxicities , and a lack of efficacy in most patients . SIRPalpha , commonly known as the " do not eat me signal " , is a monocyte checkpoint cell surface protein . Agents that block the interaction of CD47 with SIRPalpha have recently shown clinical success in combination with monoclonal antibody therapy to potentiate macrophage phagocytosis of tumors . However , significant toxicities and logistical issues are associated with CD47-targeted agents due to the expression of CD47 on all human cells . In contrast , SIRPalpha has expression limited to myelomonocytic cells , meaning highly specific SIRPalpha blocking agents might reduce these toxicities and avoid the target antigen sink . Herein , we generated a high affinity and highly specific SIRPalpha-targeting monoclonal antibody , F05 , that has enhanced SIRPalpha binding and reduced SIRPbeta and SIRPgamma binding capacity when compared to other available SIRPalpha antibodies . Furthermore , we show F05 reprograms immunosuppressive macrophages toward a phagocytic profile in vitro . F05 demonstrated efficacy in solid tumor animal models , providing a rationale for further development of the antibody .
Converting solar UV to red/far-red ( VTR/FR ) light can boost crop photosynthesis and morphogenesis . Consequently , broadband ultraviolet excitation and red/far-red emission phosphors are important VTR/FR light-conversion auxiliaries ( LCAs ) in solar greenhouses and solar cells . In this study , we have designed and synthesized a series of solid solution BaLa ( 2- ) ( x-y ) Gd ( y ) Zn ( 1-z ) Mg ( z ) O : xEu ( 3+ ) phosphors . A Gd ( 3+ ) -Mg ( 2+ ) cosubstituted La ( 3+ ) -Zn ( 2+ ) strategy has been employed to regulate the crystal structure and local crystal field strength of the solid solution . At a low level of Gd ( 3+ ) -Mg ( 2+ ) doping , the phosphor exhibited a tetragonal symmetric ( BaLaZnO ) structure and an I4/mcm space group . The Eu ( 3+ ) D --> F transition generated intense far-red ( 706 nm ) luminescence . At higher doping levels , the crystal structure switched to an orthorhombic low-symmetry ( BaGdZnO ) Pbnm space group and D --> F transition with a red emission at 627 nm . The optimized tetragonal BaLa ( 8 ) Gd ( 8 ) Zn ( 89 ) Mg ( 11 ) O : 4Eu ( 3+ ) phosphor exhibited effective UVA excitation with a far-red emission ( 706 nm ) and high external/internal quantum efficiency ( EQE/IQE = 3/7% ) . The optimized orthorhombic BaLa ( 2 ) Gd ( 4 ) Zn ( 3 ) Mg ( 7 ) O : 4Eu ( 3+ ) phosphor exhibited UVB excitation with a red emission ( 627 nm ) and EQE/IQE = 4/3% . The luminescent film laminated glasses ( LFLGs ) made with the two phosphors had good VTR/FR performance in sunlight , showing potential in greenhouse and solar cell applications . FAU - Xiong , Rumeng
Staphylococcus ( S . ) aureus is a prominent foodborne pathogen that can cause food poisoning due to its staphylococcal toxins . Controlling the viable levels of S . aureus is crucial for ensuring food safety . The detection of S . aureus during routine quality control is still primarily conducted using traditional culture-based methods , which are time-consuming and unable to detect viable but non-culturable cells . Viability PCR ( vPCR ) - a combination of traditional ( or quantitative ) PCR with photo-reactive DNA-intercalating dye ( s ) - has been introduced as an alternative to detect viable cells by excluding those with compromised membranes using molecular methods . Despite the success of the vPCR methodology , avoiding false-positive results remains a significant challenge . To enhance the accuracy of vPCR results for S . aureus , several approaches have been proposed by various researchers in the past decade ; however , complete PCR signal suppression of dead cells has not been achieved . In this study , we developed a strategy to detect only viable S . aureus cells by combining double PMA treatment with a low PMA concentration and performing a tube change between the last dark incubation and light exposure to improve the vPCR protocol . For pure cultures , the optimized protocol was able to completely suppress DNA signals from 0 x 107 dead cells in a final reaction volume of 200 microl . For artificially contaminated food samples with such a high dead cell count , complete PCR signal reduction was observed in ground pepper , - oregano , and infant milk powder , while ground paprika , - allspice , and - pork exhibited PCR signals close to the detection limit . To simulate conditions in real samples , we artificially contaminated ground paprika , - pork , and milk powder with a low number of viable cells ( ~9 cfu/ml ) and a high number of heat-inactivated S . aureus ( ~8 x 10 cells/ml ) . The results showed that the optimized protocol is effective in detecting only the desired live cells , even in the presence of a high dead cell count . Our findings highlight that vPCR can be an accurate and reliable method with strong potential for high-throughput detection of live S . aureus cells in certain food matrices .
Interstitial cystitis/bladder pain syndrome ( IC/BPS ) plagues patients and clinicians with its unclear etiology and pathogenesis , and ineffective treatments . Destruction of epithelial tissue and proliferation of interstitial tissue are typical pathological features of IC/BPS , in which epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) may play an important role . Both the increased urination frequency observed in mice with acute cystitis induced by cyclophosphamide ( CYP ) and the disruption of the anti-leakage barrier in urothelial cells induced by LPS are associated with the occurrence of EMT . The expression of heparanase 1 ( HPSE ) and syndecan-2 ( SDC-2 ) is up-regulated in the bladder mucosa of patients with IC , and both of them can promote the development of EMT . Improvement of lower urinary tract symptoms and restoration of the uroepithelial cell anti-leakage barrier in mice with CYP-induced cystitis after treatment with the HPSE inhibitor OGT2115 and inhibited the development of EMT . We then verified that HPSE binds to SDC-2 and that SDC-2 is a key intermediate protein in the pro-EMT role of HPSE , and that EMT was inhibited by knockdown of SDC- SDC-2 exerts its biological function by inhibiting the ubiquitinated degradation of TGF-betaR Here we identified a novel mechanism by which the HPSE/ SDC-2 axis promotes EMT development and thus causes epithelial dysfunction and altered voiding behavior , providing a new direction for the treatment of IC/BPS .
As the size and complexity of network simulations accessible to computational neuroscience grows , new avenues open for research into extracellularly recorded electric signals . Biophysically detailed simulations permit the identification of the biological origins of the different components of recorded signals , the evaluation of signal sensitivity to different anatomical , physiological , and geometric factors , and selection of recording parameters to maximize the signal information content . Simultaneously , virtual extracellular signals produced by these networks may become important metrics for neuro-simulation validation . To enable efficient calculation of extracellular signals from large neural network simulations , we have developed BlueRecording , a pipeline consisting of standalone Python code , along with extensions to the Neurodamus simulation control application , the CoreNEURON computation engine , and the SONATA data format , to permit online calculation of such signals . In particular , we implement a general form of the reciprocity theorem , which is capable of handling non-dipolar current sources , such as may be found in long axons and recordings close to the current source , as well as complex tissue anatomy , dielectric heterogeneity , and electrode geometries . To our knowledge , this is the first application of this generalized ( i . e . , non-dipolar ) reciprocity-based approach to simulate EEG recordings . We use these tools to calculate extracellular signals from an in silico model of the rat somatosensory cortex and hippocampus and to study signal contribution differences between regions and cell types .
The Threespine Stickleback , Gasterosteus aculeatus , is an emerging model system for understanding the genomic basis of vertebrate adaptation . A strength of the system is that marine populations have repeatedly colonized freshwater environments , serving as natural biological replicates . While repeated adaptation to freshwater has occurred throughout the northern hemisphere , Cook Inlet in south-central Alaska has been an area of focus . There is a high-quality freshwater reference assembly from a population in the region , Bear Paw Lake . Using a freshwater reference assembly is a potential limitation because genomic segments are repeatedly lost during adaptation to freshwater . Thus , some of the key regions associated with marine-freshwater divergence are absent from freshwater genomes , and therefore absent from the reference assemblies . Here we present a highly-continuous assembly from the marine population that breeds in ( anadromous ) Rabbit Slough in Cook Inlet . All contigs are from long-read sequencing and have been ordered and oriented with Hi-C . They are anchored to chromosomes and form a 454 Mbp assembly with an N50 of 3 Mbp , an L50 of 95 , and a BUSCO score greater than 97% . We expect this high-quality marine assembly to more accurately reflect the ancestral genome of the marine stickleback that founded populations in freshwater habitats in the area and will more closely match most other populations from around the world . This marine assembly , which includes repeatedly deleted segments and offers a closer reference sequence for most populations , will enable more comprehensive and accurate computational and functional genomic investigations of Threespine Stickleback evolution .
BACKGROUND : The production of VLDL is one of the primary mechanisms through which liver cells regulate intracellular lipid homeostasis . We hypothesize that the disease characteristics of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) differentially impact VLDL lipid composition . This study comprehensively examines the relationship between VLDL-lipidome and MASLD histology and disease-associated genetics , aiming to define MASLD-related VLDL changes . METHODS : We performed untargeted lipidomics on serum VLDL particles in a cohort of biopsy-proven MASLD patients to examine the relationship between VLDL-lipidome and MASLD disease features as well as MASLD-related genetic variants . RESULTS : Among 1514 detected lipid species in VLDL , triglyceride ( TG ) , phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , and ceramide ( Cer ) were the top classes . Moderate to severe hepatic steatosis was associated an increase in VLDL-TG , especially those with palmitic acid ( C16 : 0 ) . A unified acyl chain distribution analysis revealed that steatosis was associated with increases in TGs with saturated and monounsaturated fatty acyl chains , but decreases in polyunsaturated fatty acyl chains , a pattern that was not mirrored in acyl chains from VLDL-PC or VLDL-Cer . Lobular inflammation was associated with reductions in lipids with polyunsaturated acyl chains , particularly docosahexaenoic acid ( C22 : 6 ) . Meanwhile , patients with advanced liver fibrosis ( stages 3-4 ) had reductions in VLDL-TGs with both saturated and polyunsaturated acyl chains and overall enrichment in Cer species . Furthermore , MASLD-associated genetic variants in PNPLA3 , TM6SF2 , GPAM , HSD17B13 , and MTARC1 demonstrated distinct VLDL-lipidomic signatures in keeping with their biology in lipoprotein metabolism . CONCLUSIONS : Hepatic steatosis and liver fibrosis in MASLD are associated with distinct VLDL-lipidomic signatures , respectively . This relationship is further modified by MASLD-genetics , suggesting a differential impact of pathogenic features on hepatocellular lipid homeostasis .
BACKGROUND : Wilson disease ( WD ) is an autosomal recessive disorder that results in excessive hepatic copper , causing hepatic steatosis , inflammation , fibrosis , cirrhosis , and liver failure . Previous studies have revealed dysregulation of many farnesoid X receptor ( FXR ) metabolic target genes in WD , including the bile salt exporter pump , the major determinant of bile flow . METHODS : We tested the hypothesis that the FXR-cistrome is decreased in Atp7b-/- mice in accord with dysregulated bile acid homeostasis . RESULTS : FXR binding within Atp7b-/- mouse livers displayed surprising complexity : FXR binding was increased in distal intergenic regions but decreased in promoter regions in Atp7b-/- versus wild-type mice . Decreased FXR occupancy in Atp7b-/- versus wild-type mice was observed in hepatocyte metabolic and bile acid homeostasis pathways , while enrichment of FXR binding was observed in pathways associated with cellular damage outside of hepatocytes . Indeed , disparate FXR occupancy was identified in parenchymal and non-parenchymal marker genes in a manner that suggests decreased FXR activity in parenchymal cells , as expected , and increased FXR activity in non-parenchymal cells . Consistent with altered FXR function , serum and liver bile acid concentrations were higher in Atp7b-/- mice than in wild-type mice . Comparison of bile acid profiles in the serum of WD patients with " liver , " " neurological , " or " mixed " disease versus healthy controls also revealed increases in specific bile acids in WD-liver versus healthy controls . CONCLUSIONS : We identified novel FXR-occupancy across the genome that varied in parenchymal and non-parenchymal cells , demonstrating complex FXR regulation of metabolic and hepatocellular stress pathways in Atp7b-/- mice . Dynamic changes in FXR activity support our novel finding of altered bile acid metabolism in Atp7b-/- mice and WD patients .
We introduce a culture method using TPX film bags for continuous microscopic observation of explant cultures . We used the moss Physcomitrium patens as a model system . Expression of GFP in moss gametophores is observable and protoplast regeneration into protonemata is achievable in the film-bag culture system . We demonstrate that the film-bag system allows observation and analysis of plant-fungus interaction .
BACKGROUND : Malignant hyperthermia ( MH ) is a life-threatening pharmacogenetic disorder triggered by certain anesthetics , characterized by muscle rigidity , elevated body temperature , and hypermetabolic crisis . This condition is primarily associated with genetic mutations in ryanodine receptor 1 ( RYR1 ) , which encodes the pivotal calcium release channel in the sarcoplasmic reticulum of skeletal muscle . While numerous hotspot mutations in RYR1 have been identified , the functional impact of nonhotspot mutations on channel activity related to MH remains insufficiently investigated . In this study , we identified a known pathogenic mutation ( p . Arg2508His ) and a novel variant ( p . Asp2730Tyr ) , both located outside the conventional MH hotspots , in 2 patients with clinical suspicion of MH . Our objective was to investigate the functional implications of the p . Asp2730Tyr mutation in RYR1 on calcium release dynamics related to MH . METHODS : We engineered a recombinant wild-type ( WT ) plasmid ( pcDNA1-3Myc-His-RYR1-WT ) to express the full-length mouse skeletal muscle RYR1 using seamless multi-fragment cloning techniques . Two RYR1 mutations , p . Arg2508His ( used as positive control ) and p . Asp2730Tyr , were separately introduced into the WT plasmid , generating 2 mutant constructs ( pcDNA1-3Myc-His-RYR1-p . Arg2508His and pcDNA1-3Myc-His-RYR1-p . Asp2730Tyr ) . We utilized 293T cells expression system to express either the WT or mutant forms of mouse RYR Fluo-4 calcium imaging was conducted to evaluate the alterations in calcium release in response to RYR1 agonists , caffeine or 4-chloro-m-cresol ( 4CmC ) , for each mutation compared to WT . RESULTS : Cells transfected with the p . Arg2508His or p . Asp2730Tyr mutation demonstrated a leftward shift in the caffeine and 4CmC concentration-response curves compared to WT , suggesting an increased channel sensitivity to caffeine and 4CmC ( P < . 001 ) . The mean +/- standard error of the mean ( SEM ) of the EC50 values for caffeine-induced calcium release was 56 +/- 04 mM in WT , which significantly decreased to 32 +/- 13 mM for p . Arg2508His ( P < . 001 ) and 12 +/- 09 mM for p . Asp2730Tyr ( P < . 001 ) . For 4CmC , the EC50 values were 2 +/- 90 muM in WT , 2 +/- 76 muM for p . Arg2508His ( P < . 001 ) , and 8 +/- 04 muM for p . Asp2730Tyr ( P < . 001 ) , indicating enhanced calcium release in both mutations . CONCLUSIONS : The p . Asp2730Tyr mutation , situated beyond the established RYR1 hotspot regions , significantly alters calcium release dynamics related to MH . A comprehensive investigation into the structural conformations , functional assays , and in vivo mechanisms associated with this mutation could yield a more profound understanding of the molecular underpinnings of MH pathogenesis .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) is a globally rare , increasingly incident cancer . Metabolic reprogramming is common in cancer cells , and altered lipid homeostasis favors tumor development and progression . Previous studies have described lipid deregulation in HCC cells , while in CCA , the lipidome profile is still poorly characterized . METHODS : We used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to examine the lipid level profile of intrahepatic CCA ( iCCA ) and non-tumor surrounding tissue from patients , as well as in patients ' and healthy controls ' sera . RESULTS : All lipid classes were upregulated in tumor specimens and iCCA-derived sera . Newly synthesized fatty acids ( FAs ) accumulated in iCCA and were only marginally directed to mitochondrial beta-oxidation and scarcely folded in lipid droplets as neutral species . Metabolic flux assay showed that FAs were instead redirected toward plasma membrane formation and remodeling , being incorporated into phospholipids and sphingomyelin . A distinct lipid droplet and macrophage distribution was revealed by immunohistochemistry and Imaging Mass Cytometry . Lipid droplets were fewer in iCCA than in normal tissue and present mainly in the intratumoral fibrous septa and in M2 macrophages . Monocytes modified their lipid content and phenotype in the presence of iCCA cells , and the same effect could be recapitulated by FA supplementation . CONCLUSIONS : Our results reveal a profound alteration in the lipid content of iCCA tissues and demonstrate that FA accumulation prompts iCCA aggressiveness by supporting membrane biogenesis , generating bioactive lipids that boost proliferation , and by modifying macrophage phenotype .
Antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) are effective anticancer biotherapeutics , often referred to as " magic bullets " due to their high specificity and cytotoxicity . This unique drug class consists of cytotoxic drugs coupled to monoclonal antibodies that target antigens on cancer cell surfaces . Different modes of drug conjugation are used to produce ADCs , whereby it has been shown that the employed linkage chemistries influence the drug load distribution as well as the stability of the product . While different methods to assess ADC stability are available , they mostly assess bulk properties and thus fail to assess stabilities at an individual stoichiometric drug-load level . Here , we demonstrate that variable-temperature electrospray ionization mass spectrometry can be used to study the heat stability of antibody-drug conjugates , resolving distinct stabilities for individual drug-loaded variants . As this stability is a key attribute of ADCs , we propose that variable-temperature electrospray ionization mass spectrometry may become an asset in the toolbox of analytical chemistry approaches to characterize ADCs in molecular fine detail . FAU - Fiala , Jan
Siraitia grosvenorii , commonly known as Monk fruit , is the fruit of S . grosvenorii ( Swingle ) C . Jeffrey ex A . M . Lu & Zhi Y . Zhang ( Jeffrey C . 1980 ) . As a traditional medicinal and edible homologous herb , S . grosvenorii is widely distributed in southern China ( Li et al . 2025 ) . In July 2024 , wilting plants were found in farmed fields in Longsheng Nationalities Autonomous County ( 714443 degrees N , 032812 degrees E ) , Guilin , Guangxi , China , with an estimated incidence rate of 10 to 30% . Initially the leaves exhibited signs of water loss . The stems and leaves gradually turned yellow and withered , ultimately leading to the death of the entire plant . To isolate the causal agent , 12 small pieces of discolored stem tissues were cut , and then they were surface sterilized by using 75% EtOH for 30s and placed in 5% NaOCl for 2 min , and then rinsed three times in sterilized distilled water . These samples were then placed on potato dextrose agar ( PDA ) and they were incubated at 25 in the darkness for 7 days . The hyphal tips were transferred to fresh PDA in order to obtain pure cultures . 26 isolates were obtained , 19 of which had similar morphology . These were isolated from all the symptomatic stems and they were considered to be pathogens , and named L After 14 days , the colonies were white , fluffy , with white aerial mycelium , while the reverse side turned dark black , due to the formation of microsclerotia . The hyphae were hyaline and formed whorled branches . The conidia were hyaline , aseptate , cylindrical to oval and measured 3 to 6 x 6 to 1 mum in size ( n = 60 ) . The microsclerotia were immersed in the agar , and they were composed of rounded cells and were elongated or irregular in shape . These morphological features were consistent with Verticillium dahliae ( Isaac 1967 ) . The L1 isolate was subjected to sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer ( ITS ) , actin ( ACT ) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase ( GPD ) sections ( Inderbitzin et al . 2011 ) for molecular identification . The ITS , ACT and GPD sequences ( Genebank accession nos . PQ836512 , PQ847485 and PQ847486 ) displayed 99 to 100% ( 529/531 , 475/475 , 640/640 bp ) similarity to V . dahliae ( Genebank accession nos . KX058040 , OK513223 and OK513236 , respectively ) . Phylogenetic analysis was based on a combination of ITS , ACT and GPD sequence data using MEGA 11 software to construct a phylogenetic tree with neighbor-joining . In the phylogenetic tree , the combined sequences attributed L1 to V . dahliae . A pathogenicity test was performed by soaking 6 1-month-old S . grosvenorii cut seedlings with wounded root tips in a fungal conidial suspension ( 1 x 106 conidium/mL ) for 1 h ( Choi et al . 2022 ) . Six additional seedlings were treated with sterile distilled water as controls . All the seedlings were kept in a greenhouse at 25 degrees C with 80% humidity . After 3 weeks , the inoculated plant leaves turned yellow and dried off . After 4 weeks , all the treated plants were dead with vascular discoloration in the roots and stems . V . dahliae was re-isolated from the symptomatic stem tissues and confirmed by morphology and DNA sequencing ( ITS , ACT and GPD sequences ) . The control plants remained healthy and no V . dahliae was isolated from them , thereby fulfilling the Koch postulate . V . dahliae is an economically important pathogen with a wide host range worldwide ( Lu et al . 2021 ) . To our knowledge , this is the first report of V . dahliae causing Verticillium wilt of S . grosvenorii in China and elsewhere , thereby providing the possibility for the integrated management of Verticillium wilt on this herb . FAU - Zhan , Xinjie
Studying the consequences of somatic mutations in pre-malignant and cancerous tissues is challenging due to noise in single-cell transcriptome data and difficulty in identifying the clonal identity of single cells . We optimized TARGET-seq to develop TARGET-seq+ , which combines RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) , the analysis of cell surface protein expression , and genotyping in single cells with improved sensitivity . We describe the steps for cell isolation , the preparation of single-cell RNA-seq ( scRNA-seq ) and genotyping libraries , and sequencing . We also provide guidance on the analysis of single-cell genotyping , transcriptome pre-processing , and data integration . For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol , please refer to Jakobsen et al . .
Intercellular and inter-organ communication systems are vital for tissue homeostasis and disease development , utilizing soluble bioactive molecules for signaling . The field of extracellular vesicle ( EV ) biology has rapidly expanded in recent decades , highlighting EVs as effective bioactive nanovectors for cell-to-cell communication in various physiological and pathological contexts . Numerous studies indicate that adipocyte-derived EVs are crucial components of the adipose secretome , playing a key role in autocrine and paracrine interactions within adipose tissue , as well as in endocrine signaling . This review aims to present an updated perspective on EVs as mediators of communication between adipose tissue and other organs , while also examining their therapeutic potential in the light of recent advancements in EV biology research .
Despite not proliferating , senescent cells remain metabolically active to maintain the senescence program . However , the mechanisms behind this metabolic reprogramming are not well understood . We identify senescence-induced long noncoding RNA ( sin-lncRNA ) , a previously uncharacterized long noncoding RNA ( lncRNA ) , a key player in this response . While strongly activated in senescence by C/EBPbeta , sin-lncRNA loss reinforces the senescence program by altering oxidative phosphorylation and rewiring mitochondrial metabolism . By interacting with dihydrolipoamide S-succinyltransferase ( DLST ) , it facilitates its mitochondrial localization . Depletion of sin-lncRNA causes DLST nuclear translocation , leading to transcriptional changes in oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) genes . While not expressed in highly proliferative cancer cells , it is strongly induced upon cisplatin-induced senescence . Depletion of sin-lncRNA in ovarian cancer cells reduces oxygen consumption and increases extracellular acidification , sensitizing cells to cisplatin treatment . Altogether , these results indicate that sin-lncRNA is specifically induced in senescence to maintain metabolic homeostasis , unveiling an RNA-dependent metabolic rewiring specific to senescent cells .
An acute increase in excitatory synaptic transmission contributes to the rapid antidepressant actions of neuroplastogens , including ketamine and its bioactive metabolite , ( 2R , 6R ) -hydroxynorketamine ( HNK ) . It is hypothesized that drug-induced metaplastic changes in synaptic strength account for therapeutically relevant behavioral adaptations in vivo . Using the plasticity-deficient Wistar Kyoto model of treatment-resistant depression , we demonstrate that ( 2R , 6R ) -HNK potentiates glutamatergic transmission , promotes synaptic strength , restores long-term potentiation ( LTP ) , and reverses deficits in hippocampal-dependent synaptic activity and behavior . ( 2R , 6R ) -HNK selectively potentiated CA1 pyramidal neuron activity during novelty exploration and restored Schaffer collateral-dependent spatial recognition memory . Prior experience with spatial learning partially occluded LTP in control rats , an effect mimicked in LTP-impaired rats in which spatial learning deficits were reversed by ( 2R , 6R ) -HNK . These findings demonstrate that ( 2R , 6R ) -HNK exerts rapid neuroplastogenic effects in vivo , which improve cognitive function and promote adaptive changes in synaptic strength at functionally impaired synapses .
Plant post-embryonic development is characterized by the unceasing generation of new tissues and organs that allow plants to adapt their growth and architecture to environmental conditions . Primary root indeterminate growth is sustained by the activity of the root apical meristem ( RAM ) , an organized structure containing stem cells that continuously divide to generate new tissues . RAM , thanks to its simple and symmetric structure , is an excellent system for studying how hormone distributions and interactions regulate growth . Plant hormones are pivotal actors in establishing and maintaining RAM patterning , and their developmental outputs are dependent on their integrated activities . In this review , we discuss recent findings on hormonal crosstalk that shapes the root meristem , focusing our attention on both the root radial and longitudinal axes .
Doublecortin-like kinase 1 ( Dclk1 ) expression identifies cells that are rare in normal pancreas but occur with an increased frequency in pancreatic neoplasia . The identity of these cells has been a matter of debate . We employed Dclk1 reporter mouse models and single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) to define Dclk1-expressing cells . In normal pancreas , Dclk1 identifies subsets of ductal , islet , and acinar cells . In pancreatic neoplasia , Dclk1 identifies several cell populations , among which acinar-to-ductal metaplasia ( ADM ) -like cells and tuft-like cells are predominant . These two populations play opposing roles , with Dclk1 ( + ) ADM-like cells sustaining and Dclk1 ( + ) tuft-like cells restraining tumor progression . The generation of Dclk1 ( + ) tuft-like cells requires the transcription factor SPIB and is sustained by a paracrine loop involving type 2 innate lymphoid cells ( ILC2s ) and cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) that provide interleukin ( IL ) -13 and IL-33 , respectively . Dclk1 ( + ) tuft-like cells release angiotensinogen to restrain tumor progression . Overall , our study defines pancreatic Dclk1 ( + ) cells and unveils a protective tuft cell-ILC2 axis against pancreatic neoplasia .
Atopic dermatitis ( AD ) is a recurrent inflammatory skin condition marked by itching , inflammation , and lichenification , primarily affecting children . Panax ginseng shows therapeutic promise in treating AD , although research on its mechanisms remains limited . For the first time , a network pharmacology approach was used to explore the pharmacological mechanisms of Panax ginseng ' s active compounds in AD treatment . Screening for bioactive compounds and their respective targets was conducted through the Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology ( TCMSP ) and SwissTargetPrediction databases . AD-related targets were gathered from GeneCards , DisGeNET , and OMIM databases . The VENNY tool was used to identify overlapping targets . STRING 0 was utilized for protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network analysis , Cytoscape for network construction , DAVID for Gene Ontology ( GO ) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) enrichment , and PyRx AutoDock Vina for molecular docking . We retrieved 14 bioactive compounds ( oral bioavailability >/= 30% and drug-likeness >/= 18 ) from Panax ginseng , corresponding to 552 targets , and 44 compounds ( OB < 30% and DL >/= 18 ) with 610 potential targets for oral and topical AD therapies . In the compound-target network , Gomisin B , Kaempferol , Celabenzine , and Panaxadiol emerged as key oral compounds targeting hub genes . Ginsenoside-Rh3 , 12-O-nicotinoylisolineolone , Ginsenoside-Rh4 , and Panaxatriol were linked to hub genes , suggesting topical application potential . GO and KEGG enrichment showed involvement of Th17 cell differentiation , EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance , C-type lectin receptor signaling , and TNF signaling . Molecular docking showed strong binding between key compounds and core targets . This study highlights Panax ginseng ' s potential in complementary AD treatment . FAU - Mohammad , Shahnawaz
Stress is a primary contributor to fatty liver syndrome ( FLS ) in chickens . Mitochondrial functionality is pivotal in FLS progression , with diminished supercomplex ( SC ) formation disrupting electron transport and escalating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production . However , the impact of stress on mitochondrial SC in chicken FLS remains elusive . This study employed corticosterone ( CORT ) to model chronic stress and examined its consequences on mitochondrial performance and SC configuration in both vivo and vitro FLS models . Notably , the CORT-treated hepatocytes exhibited elevated triglyceride content ( P < 05 ) , accompanied by increased mitochondrial ROS ( P < 01 ) . Moreover , CORT-exposed broilers displayed reduced body weight ( P < 05 ) alongside heightened liver-to-body weight ratio ( P < 01 ) , indicative of liver steatosis with increased triglyceride levels in both liver and plasma ( P < 01 ) . Mitochondrial alterations in reduced ATP content ( P < 05 ) . Gene expression analysis revealed enrichment in the mitochondrial respiratory chain pathway , with down-regulated mRNA expression of Complex I-associated SC assembly factors NDUFAF5 , NDUFAF7 , and TIMMDC1 ( P < 05 ) . Meanwhile , the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) protein level and its specific binding to the NDUFAF5 gene promoter were reduced in the CORT group ( P < 01 and P < 05 , respectively ) , accompanied by a decrease in NDUFAF5 protein expression in liver , primary hepatocytes , and AML12 cells ( P < 05 ) . GR knockdown in AML12 cells reduced NDUFAF5 protein expression ( P < 05 ) . Thus , these findings imply that GR-mediated transcriptional regulation of Complex I assembly factor NDUFAF5 may influence SC assembly , shedding light on stress-induced FLS mechanisms in broilers . FAU - Chen , Huimin
OBJECTIVES : Interstitial lung disease ( ILD ) is the most frequent cause of mortality in patients with systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) . Cartilage acidic protein-1 ( CRTAC1 ) , secreted by alveolar type-2 epithelial cells , is a potential biomarker of lung health . This study explores CRTAC1 ' s role in SSc , focusing on pulmonary involvement . METHODS : We collected plasma samples from 76 SSc patients ( 65 females , limited cutaneous ( lc ) SSc : 45 , diffuse cutaneous ( dc ) SSc : 31 , ILD : 43 , all fulfilled the 2013 ACR/EULAR criteria ) and 89 healthy individuals ( HC , 37 females ) . Patients were examined and assessed for the European Scleroderma Study Group ( ESSG ) activity score , modified Rodnan skin score ( mRSS ) , forced vital capacity ( FVC ) , forced expiratory volume in 1 s ( FEV1 ) , diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide ( DLCO ) and Medsger Disease Severity Scale ( DSS ) . CRTAC1 levels were measured using the CRTAC1 IQ-ELISA ( Ray Biotech ) . RESULTS : CRTAC1 levels in plasma were lower in SSc patients compared with HC ( p< 001 ) . CRTAC1 was decreased in SSc patients with ILD compared with SSc patients without ILD ( p= 027 ) . Linear modelling showed negative association of CRTAC1 with DSS pulmonary involvement ( p= 016 , beta=-46 ) and ESSG activity score ( p= 047 , beta=-022 ) , and a positive association with DLCO ( p= 065 , beta = 87 ) , FEV1 ( p= 1 , beta = 622 ) and FVC ( p= 072 , beta = 83 ) . CRTAC1 levels were also decreased in SSc patients with gastrointestinal ( p= 002 ) and joint ( p= 006 ) involvement and pulmonary arterial hypertension ( p= 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Systemic levels of CRTAC1 are decreased in SSc patients , especially among those with ILD , reduced lung function , and elevated disease activity . Our findings establish CRTAC1 as a promising biomarker for pulmonary involvement in SSc .
OBJECTIVES : To characterize some phenotypic and functional aspects of fibroblast-like synoviocytes isolated from the synovial fluid ( SF-FLS ) of patients affected by Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis ( JIA ) with active disease and to compare SF-FLS characteristics to those reported in the literature for FLS of the synovial membrane ( SM ) in adult rheumatic patients . METHODS : FLS were isolated from the SF of JIA patients with active disease by therapeutic arthrocentesis . SF-FLS surface marker expression was assessed by cytofluorimetry , proinflammatory cytokine and metalloprotease ( MMP ) gene expression was investigated by qRT-PCR , and chondrogenic properties were evaluated by staining with Alcian-Blue . RESULTS : SF-FLS display a CD45- , CD34- , CD90+ , PDPN+ phenotype and exhibit significant increase in the expression of genes coding for pro-inflammatory cytokines , but not MMPs , when treated with TNF-alpha , a cytokine present in the joint environment . In addition , SF-FLS express the chondrogenic antigens , Bone Morphogenetic Protein ( BMP4 ) and Aggrecan ( AGG ) , and show the ability to differentiate towards a chondrocyte-like phenotype when cultured in TGF-beta-enriched medium . CONCLUSION : FLS from the SF of JIA patients display a phenotype that has pro-inflammatory , rather than tissue-disruptive , activity ; this is similar to what is observed in cells from the sublining region of the SM in adult arthritis patients . In addition , they show chondrogenic ability , indicating the potential for SF-FLS as an in vitro model for chondrocytes .
Postacute COVID-19 syndrome ( PACS ) describes the persistence of symptoms following severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 clearance . PACS is sometimes associated with pain and fatigue resembling fibromyalgia syndrome ( FMS ) . Severe FMS has recently been associated with pronociceptive immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) autoantibodies and anti-satellite glial cell ( SGC ) IgG autoreactivity , suggesting an autoimmune aetiology . We validated FMS-IgG passive transfer and then tested the hypothesis that PACS-patients , with high musculoskeletal pain and fatigue , harbour proalgesic and anti-SGC autoantibodies . PACS-patients with high pain and fatigue or people recently recovered from acute COVID-19 were recruited to the All-Ireland Infectious Diseases Study . We pooled serum from 18 patients per group and purified their serum-IgG . In addition , we obtained IgG from UK patients with FMS and healthy controls to confirm assay performance . Passive transfer experiments of IgG ( 8 mg/d ) over 3 days were conducted using male ( C57BL/6J ) mice ( n = 6 mice per group ) . We measured mechanical and cold hypersensitivities and grip strength . Injection of FMS-IgG elicited the previously described mouse phenotype in male rodents , including increased mechanical/cold hypersensitivities and reduced grip strength compared with control IgG , whereas pooled PACS-IgG was inert . Immunocytochemistry of primary-SGC-enriched cultures reproduced the increased staining of FMS-IgG over the control reported previously . Both IgG from patients with PACS and those recently recovered from COVID-19 stained strongly positive . We confirm the pronociceptive properties of FMS-IgG and demonstrate , in contrast , that PACS symptoms from our cohort , with severe pain and fatigue , are not transmissible through passive transfer to male rodents . Postacute COVID-19 syndrome pain is often localised , and stratification according to the widespread distribution of pain should be considered for future studies ; recovered COVID-19 leaves a strong trace of anti-SGC autoreactivity .
S-adenosyl-L-methionine ( SAM ) is an important intermediate metabolite and widely used in the treatment of liver disease , arthritis , and depression . In this work , a whole-cell catalysis strategy was employed to enhance SAM production by combining the SAM biosynthetic pathway with an adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) regeneration system in Escherichia coli . Specifically , the ado1 , ack , and adk genes were previously introduced into the genome of the host strain . We then confirmed the availability of the ATP regeneration system under the condition of adding adenosine monophosphate ( AMP ) and acetyl phosphate ( ACP ) as supplements . To improve the SAM production , the sam2 gene derived from Saccharomyces cerevisiae was overexpressed using the plasmid pGEX-2TK in the strain and the conditions of biocatalytic process were optimized . Under the optimal biocatalytic conditions , the recombinant strain RS01 ( pGEX-2TK-SAM2 ) achieved a SAM titer of 4 g/L after 10 h cultivation . This work not only provides a new platform for the efficient production of SAM but also offers insights into the biosynthesis of other ATP-dependent products . FAU - Pengfei , Zhang
BACKGROUND : Predicting which lung transplant recipients ( LTR ) will develop cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) infection remains challenging . The aim of this retrospective cohort study was to further explore the predictive utility of global immune biomarkers within recipient seropositive ( R+ ) LTRs , focusing on the mitogen component of the QuantiFERON ( QF ) -CMV assay and the absolute lymphocyte count ( ALC ) . METHODS : R+ LTR with QF-CMV testing performed at 5 mo posttransplant were included . ALC and mitogen were evaluated as predictors of CMV infection ( >150 IU/mL ) in plasma and/or bronchoalveolar lavage fluid using Cox regression , controlling for antiviral prophylaxis . Optimal cutoffs were calculated with receiver-operating characteristic curves . RESULTS : CMV infection occurred in 111 of 204 patients ( 54% ) and was associated with donor seropositivity ( 80/111 [72%] versus 42/93 [45%] , P < 001 ) , lower ALC ( median 1 versus 4 x 1000 cells/muL , P = 004 ) , and lower mitogen ( 8 versus 6 , P = 03 ) values . Adjusted for serostatus and prophylaxis , each unit decrease in ALC ( hazard ratio , 56 per 1000 cells/muL ; 95% confidence interval , 19-08 ; P = 002 ) and mitogen ( hazard ratio , 09 per 1 IU/mL ; 95% confidence interval , 03-14 ; P = 001 ) were independently associated with CMV . Combining these 2 biomarkers did not substantially improve model performance . CONCLUSIONS : In R+ LTRs , donor serostatus , ALC values , and the mitogen component of the QF-CMV assay were able to predict postprophylaxis CMV infection . Combining serostatus with either biomarker alone improved predictions , but using both tests together did not increase predictive utility further . These values could be used to risk stratify patients and inform decision-making regarding the duration of antiviral prophylaxis and frequency of virologic monitoring .
SUMMARY : The study of microbial communities is vital for understanding their impact on environmental , health , and technological domains . The Modelling and Inference of MICrobiomes Project ( MIMIC ) introduces a Python package designed to advance the simulation , inference , and prediction of microbial community interactions and dynamics . Addressing the complex nature of microbial ecosystems , MIMIC integrates a suite of mathematical models , including previously used approaches such as Generalized Lotka-Volterra ( gLV ) , Gaussian Processes ( GP ) , and Vector Autoregression ( VAR ) plus newly developed models for integrating multi-omic data , to offer a versatile framework for analysing microbial dynamics . By leveraging Bayesian inference and machine learning techniques , MIMIC provides the ability to infer the dynamics of microbial communities from empirical data , facilitating a deeper understanding of their complex biological processes , unveiling possible unknown ecological interactions , and enabling the design of microbial communities . Such insights could help to advance microbial ecology research , optimizing biotechnological applications , and contribute to environmental sustainability and public health strategies . MIMIC is designed for flexibility and ease of use , aiming to support researchers and practitioners in microbial ecology and microbiome research . AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION : MIMIC is freely available under the MIT License at https : //github . com/ucl-cssb/MIMIC . It is implemented in Python ( version 7 or higher ) and is compatible with Windows , macOS , and Linux operating systems . MIMIC depends on standard Python libraries including NumPy , SciPy , and PyMC . Comprehensive examples and tutorials ( including the main text demonstrations ) are provided as Jupyter notebooks in the examples/directory and at the MIMIC Docs website , along with detailed installation instructions and real-world data use cases . The software will remain freely available for at least two years following publication . A code snapshot for this publication is also available at Zenodo : https : //doi . org/5281/zenodo . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online .
In neurophysiological research , the traditional view of beta band activity as sustained oscillations is being reinterpreted as transient bursts . Bursts are characterized by a distinct wavelet shape , high amplitude , and , most importantly , brief temporal occurrence . The primary method for their detection relies on a threshold-based analysis of spectral power , and this presents two fundamental issues . First , the threshold selection is effectively arbitrary , being influenced by both temporally proximal and distal factors in the signal . Second , the method necessarily detects temporal events , as such it is susceptible to misidentifying sustained signals as transient bursts . To address these issues , this study systematically explores burst detection through simulations , shedding light on the method ' s robustness across various scenarios . Although the method is effective in detecting transients in numerous cases , it can be overly sensitive , leading to spurious detections . Moreover , when applied to simulations featuring exclusively sustained events , the method frequently yields events exhibiting characteristics consistent with a transient burst interpretation . By simulating an average difference in power between experimental conditions , we illustrate how apparent burst rate differences between conditions can emerge even in the absence of actual burst rate disparities , and even in the absence of bursts . This capacity to produce misleading outcomes challenges the reinterpretation of sustained beta oscillations as transient bursts and prompts a critical reassessment of the existing literature . FAU - Langford , Zachary D
Cold ischemia significantly affects tissue sample quality and analytical accuracy . However , research on the effects of cold ischemia on tissue proteomics and metabolomics is limited , and efficient tools for assessing tissue quality are lacking . In this study , mass spectrometry ( MS ) -based proteomics and metabolomics were employed to evaluate the impact of cold ischemia times and temperature , and MS imaging ( MSI ) was explored as a high-throughput platform for tissue quality assessment . Our findings indicated that the proteome exhibits greater overall stability than the metabolome and that cold ischemia at 25 degrees C causes tissue molecular degradation more rapidly than at 4 degrees C . We also identified functional pathways particularly sensitive to cold ischemia , including the upregulation of cellular detoxification and small-molecule metabolism , alongside the inhibition of nucleotide excision repair functions . Additionally , MALDI MSI can identify the change in certain highly unsaturated lipids caused by cold ischemia . Specifically , phosphatatidylcholines ( 40 : 6 ) and phosphatatidylcholines ( 34 : 3 ) showed sensitivities of 67% and specificities of 89% for identifying ' ' low-quality ' ' leiomyoma tissues , indicating their potential as quality biomarkers . These insights can guide sample collection and selection strategies based on analytical objectives and provide a theoretical basis for preanalysis quality management . FAU - Su , Rong
Melanins are the pigments with diverse protective functions in a wide range of organisms . The ability of lichens to synthesize melanins is an important adaptation in response to adverse light conditions , including ultraviolet ( UV ) irradiation and high light . Previously , we demonstrated that melanization of the lichen Lobaria pulmonaria is accompanied by the accumulation of melanin granules in the upper cortex . However , very little information is available on the morphology and physicochemical properties of these particles . Here , for the first time , we used polyclonal antibodies against eumelanin to visualize melanin in the upper cortex of L . pulmonaria and confirm its identity . Using scanning electron microscopy , we showed that extracted melanins are large , spherical aggregates , with an average size of 230 nm . The aggregates had an irregular and unstable structure and displayed high adhesive properties , according to atomic force microscopy . Purification using size exclusion chromatography showed that melanins coeluted with polysaccharides . Purified particles were visualized as discrete structures ( subaggregates ) with an average size of 42 nm and displayed higher stability and lower adhesive properties than non-purified aggregates . In colloidal aqueous systems , melanin particles formed aggregates with particle sizes of 279 and 212 nm for the non-purified and purified samples , respectively , suggesting that the removal of the polysaccharide component during purification causes the condensation of the polyaromatic structure of melanin . Taken together , our results suggest that melanin particles extracted from UV-melanized thalli of the lichen L . pulmonaria comprise a supramolecular assembly of melanin and polysaccharides . Analysis of the size , zeta-potential , and polydispersity index suggests that melanin particles are capable of structural rearrangements that lead to changes in their nanomechanical properties . The ability of the melanin to bind to polysaccharides may enhance the structural robustness of mycobiont cell walls and increase the tolerance of lichen thalli to stressful environments . FAU - Daminova , Amina G
Ruthenium ( III ) complexes are promising anticancer metallodrugs because of their antimetastatic ( migrastatic ) potential and significantly lower host toxicity than generally used platinum metallodrugs . On the other hand , the ruthenium ( III ) complexes generally show low solubility and stability in an aqueous environment but exhibit some toxicity associated with unspecific delivery . For these reasons , numerous ongoing studies deal with their encapsulation into various delivery systems to maximize their therapeutic efficacy . One of these systems can also be crystals of nontoxic metal-organic frameworks ( MOFs ) . In this work , we studied incorporation of a bioactive ruthenium ( III ) complex ( RuC ) inside MOFs derived from gamma-cyclodextrin ( gamma-CD ) and biocompatible potassium ions , forming CD-MOF- Viability studies in vitro were carried out using spheroids of human hepatoblastoma cell line HepG These studies revealed that the RuC-CD-MOF-1 system provides effective cancer cell suppression through slow gradual release over a longer period ( >10 days ) while reducing acute cytotoxic effects associated with naked RuC . This combination was defined for further development and optimization as a drug-delivery platform for metallodrugs . FAU - Marzabad , Mahya Asgharian
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) wound infections remain a significant global challenge and demand new-generation biomaterials to eliminate bacterial infections and promote rapid wound healing . Although the nanozyme is a promising approach , the restricted unimodal bactericidal functionality hinders its efficacy in treating complex wound infections . In this study , copper-tannic acid ( Cu-TA ) nanozymes ( NMs ) with multifunctional properties were developed for the treatment of bacterial infections and biofilms via cuproptosis-like cell death . The as-prepared Cu-TA demonstrated peroxidase-like ( POD-like ) activity , generating substantial amounts of hydroxyl radicals ( ( * ) OH ) . In vitro studies revealed that Cu-TA efficiently disrupted bacterial biofilms , while in vivo experiments demonstrated its ability to promote anti-inflammatory responses , angiogenesis , collagen synthesis , and cellular proliferation . Transcriptome sequencing revealed that bacterial reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) caused damage to the cell membrane and disrupted metabolic processes . Furthermore , copper overload triggered lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) buildup and interfered with the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle , culminating in cuproptosis-like bacterial death . Overall , this study successfully developed a spindle-shaped , multifunctional nanozyme for combating bacterial infections through cuproptosis-like cell death while promoting infected wound healing . The results validate the clinical potential of Cu-TA NMs for treating MRSA-infected wounds . FAU - Yu , Chongqing
IMPORTANCE : Postpartum hemorrhage ( PPH ) remains the leading cause of maternal mortality globally . Although traditional management relies on blood loss quantification , identifying cases resistant to conventional treatment remains challenging , potentially delaying crucial interventions . OBJECTIVE : To determine the prevalence and clinical implications of PPH that is resistant to treatment showing arterial contrast extravasation on dynamic computed tomography ( CT ) ( PRACE ) and its association with intervention requirements . DESIGN , SETTING , AND PARTICIPANTS : A multicenter retrospective case-control study of PPH cases was conducted at 43 tertiary facilities across Japan , including 30 university hospitals , between January and December The study included patients with PPH who were either transported to the centers or who delivered there . Data analysis was performed from September 2023 to November EXPOSURE : A diagnosis of PPH , defined as blood loss exceeding 2000 mL or requiring more than 10 units of red blood cell transfusion . MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES : The primary outcome was the prevalence of PRACE and its association with uterine artery embolization ( UAE ) requirement . Secondary outcomes included risk factors for severe coagulopathy ( fibrinogen <150 mg/dL ) . Odds ratios ( ORs ) were estimated using multivariable logistic regression to evaluate the association between types of PPH ( atonic uterus , tissue , and PRACE ) and PPH severity . RESULTS : Among 352 patients ( median [IQR] age , 0 [0-0] years ; 211 [0%] primiparous ) , 205 ( 2% ) underwent CT scans , with PRACE detected in 58 ( 2% ) of evaluable cases . Patients with PRACE had significantly higher total blood loss ( median [IQR] , 3455 [2000-5070] mL vs 2500 [1500-2650] mL ) and greater UAE requirement ( 50 of 58 patients [2%] vs 35 of 122 patients [7%] ) compared with patients without PRACE . PRACE was the primary factor associated with the need for UAE ( OR , 74 ; 95% CI , 52-14 ) . CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE : In this retrospective case-control study of patients with severe PPH undergoing dynamic CT , PRACE represented a distinct and common pathology in severe PPH and was associated with the need for interventional procedures . These findings suggest that dynamic CT imaging should be considered as an essential diagnostic tool in managing treatment-resistant PPH cases . FAU - Yamaguchi , Munekage
PURPOSE : Glial cells play a critical role in primary visual cortex ( V1 region ) damage caused by optic nerve injury , but the mechanisms driving progression of V1 region injury and glial cell heterogeneity remain poorly understood . This study aimed to investigate the damage changes in the V1 region of mice after optic nerve crush ( ONC ) by single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) . METHODS : Hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E ) and immunofluorescence staining were used to evaluate the changes of retinal thickness , astrocytes , and microglia in the V1 region after ONC in mice . Single cell suspensions in the V1 region of mice were prepared and analyzed by scRNA-seq with Seurat , cellchat , CytoTRACE in R software . The expression of PTGDS and CRYAB was measured by qPCR , Western blot , and immunofluorescence . RESULTS : After unilateral ONC , retinal thinning in both eyes and activation of astrocytes and microglia in contralateral V1 region were observed . Genes related to neuroinflammation and apoptosis in the bilateral V1 region were upregulated , and the related pathways included MAPK , TNF , and apoptosis signaling pathways . Notably , the V1 region contralateral to the ONC eye exhibited more pronounced differential gene expression , and the protein expression of neuroinflammation-related genes Ptgds and Cryab increased . We further investigated the heterogeneity and pseudotime trajectories of astrocytes and microglia , demonstrating the key branches that dominate neuroinflammation . CONCLUSIONS : This study generates an atlas of the V1 region of the mouse brain , highlighting the role of astrocytes and microglia in the damage changes in the V1 region after ONC , and suggesting Ptgds and Cryab as potential targets to reduce neuroinflammation . FAU - Li , Deling
PURPOSE : Corneal endothelial cell dysfunction is a major contributor to corneal edema , opacity , and , in severe cases , corneal blindness . Currently , no direct and reliable clinical indicator is available for evaluating the function of corneal endothelial cells . This study aimed to identify new noninvasive indicators for the clinical assessment of corneal endothelial barrier function . METHODS : This study established a finite element simulation model of a monolayer full-corneal endothelium to screen for sensitive indicators that reflect the barrier function of the corneal endothelium . Scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) was used to observe the morphology of endothelial junctions , and immunofluorescence was used to examine the expression of fluorescent particles . RESULTS : The " Y-junctions " area was identified as the parameter most sensitive to changes in intraocular pressure when considering the different analytical indices obtained from the finite element model . SEM of Corneal endothelial dysfunction models in rabbits and mice further confirmed a substantial increase in the " Y-junctions " relative to control groups . Additionally , functional in vitro experiments provided further evidence of a positive relationship between larger " Y-junctions " and enhanced permeability to fluorescent particles . Finally , clinical analysis of measurements related to " Y-junctions " in patients suffering from various corneal endothelial disorders consistently revealed that these junctions were significantly larger compared to those observed in healthy control subjects . CONCLUSIONS : The " Y-junctions " area serves as a potentially sensitive indicator for assessing endothelial barrier integrity . Consistent observation of alterations in this area may facilitate the early identification of dysfunction in circulating endothelial cells . FAU - Li , Dongfang
PURPOSE : Cataract is believed to be caused by protein-protein and protein-membrane aggregation in the eye lens . After middle age , there is extensive binding of crystallins to the lens cell membranes as evidenced by sedimentation at high densities . Multiple protein modifications have been linked with cataract , whereas others have been associated with aging . The purpose of this study was to characterize protein constituents within high density protein-membrane fractions from normal aged or cataractous lenses and to compare these proteins and their modifications . METHODS : The inner nuclear regions of cataract or age-matched normal lenses were homogenized and proteins were separated using sucrose density gradient centrifugation . The low-density fractions ( LDFs ) and high-density fractions ( HDFs ) were analyzed by mass spectrometry using both top-down matrix-assisted desorption/ionization-mass spectrometry ( MALDI-MS ) and bottom-up liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) -based proteomic methods . Quantification of low molecular weight crystallin peptides , deamidation , and isomerization were performed . RESULTS : Compared with normal aged-lenses , membrane-associated protein aggregates in high density fractions of cataract lenses exhibited significantly higher levels of gamma-crystallins , as well as gammaS- and gammaD-crystallin C-terminal peptides . Deamidation of gamma-crystallin , but not of beta-crystallin , was increased in cataract lens membrane-bound aggregates . A very high level of Asp isomerization was detected in bound alpha-crystallins from both aged and cataract lenses . CONCLUSIONS : Binding of crystallin aggregates to human lens cell membranes is associated with protein truncation , deamidation , and isomerization , and was observed in normal aged and cataract lenses . However , the protein aggregates bound to membranes in cataract lenses exhibit distinct modifications to gamma-crystallins that may arise as a consequence of additional protein degradation . FAU - Wang , Zhen
PURPOSE : Pathological epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) of lens epithelial cells ( LECs ) plays a crucial role in the formation of lens fibrosis , particularly in fibrotic posterior capsular opacification and anterior subcapsular cataract ( ASC ) . Here we investigated the potential roles of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress in the development of lens fibrosis . METHODS : RNA sequencing was performed to examine global gene expression changes in patients with ASC , as well as in TGFbeta2-induced human lens explants and rabbit primary LECs . Rabbit LECs were treated with TGFbeta2 in the presence or absence of the ER stress modulator , PERK inhibitor ISRIB , and autophagy inducer for in vitro studies . In vivo investigations were carried out using a mouse model of injury-induced capsular fibrosis , with ISRIB administration . To uncover the underlying mechanisms , we conducted lipidomics analysis , transmission electron microscopy , immunostaining , quantitative PCR , Western blot , and capillary Western immunoassay . RESULTS : ER stress genes were upregulated in patients with ASC , TGFbeta2-stimulated human explants and primary LECs . Pharmacologic ER stress induction promoted EMT , while its inhibition reduced TGFbeta2-induced mesenchymal gene levels . Blocking the PERK axis of ER stress with ISRIB or targeting downstream factor ATF4 suppressed EMT , whereas the IRE1 axis showed no effect . Consistent with these in vitro observations , anterior chamber injection of ISRIB also reduced subcapsular plaque formation in a mouse model of lens fibrosis by suppressing SMAD2/3 activation . Mechanistically , ISRIB suppressed LC3-II conversion and P62 degradation , indicating autophagy suppression . Lipidomics revealed phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) , essential for autophagosome formation , was downregulated in TGFbeta2-treated LECs and upregulated with ISRIB cotreatment . Inducing autophagy with rapamycin significantly rescued the mesenchymal gene suppression by ISRIB , whereas autophagy inhibitor CQ produced opposite effects . CONCLUSIONS : ER stress , particularly the PERK axis , promotes LECs ' EMT through autophagy and PE metabolism , offering potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of lens fibrosis . FAU - Wang , Xiaoran
Neurofibromatosis type 1 ( NF1 ) is a complex autosomal dominant genetic disorder caused by mutations in the NF1 gene on chromosome 17 , which encodes the tumor-suppressor protein , neurofibromin . Neurofibromin plays a critical role in regulating the RAS signaling pathway , and its loss leads to uncontrolled cell proliferation and tumor development . Clinically , NF1 presents with variable manifestations , including cafe-au-lait spots , neurofibromas , optic gliomas , skeletal abnormalities , and cognitive deficits . The updated diagnostic criteria now incorporate genetic testing and choroidal anomalies , facilitating earlier and more accurate diagnoses . Recent molecular insights have revealed that neurofibromin interacts with multiple cellular pathways , contributing to diverse clinical presentations such as plexiform neurofibromas , which may transform into malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors , and developmental issues such as scoliosis and learning disabilities . Current therapeutic approaches focus on targeting specific signaling molecules involved in tumorigenesis . This review aims to summarize the recent findings on the clinical features , molecular mechanisms , and potential treatments of NF1 , offering a comprehensive understanding of the disorder ' s complexities and highlighting future research directions .
In tissue engineering , gelatin methacryloyl ( GelMA ) has attracted significant attention because of its exceptional biocompatibility and readily tunable physical properties . Although incorporating nanofillers or other polymers into GelMA has been widely adopted in bone engineering for enhanced elasticity and functionality , how nanoparticle composite hydrogels influence tissue repair and healing remains underexplored . Here , we synthesized a series of novel nanodiamond-composite hydrogels ( NDs-G ) by embedding nanodiamond particles within a meticulously controlled GelMA matrix and investigated the impact of the NDs-G ' s internal composition and architecture on cell migration and growth . The NDs-G formulation offered an expansive , nontoxic substrate that significantly facilitated cell adhesion , proliferation , anchorage , and expansion , thereby substantially promoting new tissue development . The potential of NDs-G dressings to accelerate the healing of acute wounds was underscored by mouse experiments studies , which revealed that it markedly diminishes microbial infection risk and enhances deep dermal injury healing . Furthermore , integrating NDs-G with a three-periodic minimal surface structure yielded an NDs-G-three-periodic minimal surface scaffold . This viable biomaterial exhibited a capacity to support cell proliferation and tissue regeneration in a rat model of femoral defect . FAU - Jiang , Lin
Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFASs ) are emerging contaminants widely found in drinking water and food , potentially entering the human body through these sources . To investigate these effects , we simulated PFAS exposure doses in animal models , ranging from general population to occupational levels , and analyzed blood and spleen samples . Epidemiological studies linked PFAS exposure to immunosuppression and hematotoxicity , while toxicogenomic analyses validated the underlying biological mechanisms . PFAS exposure caused immunotoxic effects , including altered blood parameters and lymphocyte edema . Cellular abnormalities such as decreased cytoplasmic density , incomplete rough endoplasmic reticulum , chromatin condensation , lymphocyte nuclear shrinkage , and reduced mitochondrial cristae were observed . Epidemiological evidence revealed a dose-response relationship between mixed PFAS exposure and hematologic indices such as hematocrit ( HCT ) , hemoglobin ( HGB ) , platelet count ( PLT ) , platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio ( PLR ) , white blood cell count ( WBC ) , monocyte percentage , and platelet large cell ratio ( PLCR ) , with perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) playing a dominant role . Toxicogenomic analysis identified genes associated with platelets , anemia , and leukocyte function , linked to inflammation , Th17 cell differentiation , apoptosis , lipid metabolism , atherosclerosis , and JAK-STAT signaling . This study provides novel insights into the hematotoxicity and immunosuppressive effects of mixed PFAS exposure , emphasizing the need for PFAS substitution , removal , and policies addressing mixed exposures to protect public health . FAU - Du , Xiushuai
There is a need to teach interdisciplinary education in undergraduate medical education to encourage the fundamentals of teamwork and communication for enhanced patient outcomes . This report describes a novel interdisciplinary education session in the form of a simulated multidisciplinary oncology tumor board ( TB ) for pre-clinical medical students . Goals included the following : review of select pre-clinical lung cancer learning points , demonstration of diagnostic techniques relevant to the workup of lung cancer , and exposition of multidisciplinary and interprofessional teamwork . One hundred and sixty-four first-year medical students attended the required in-person session . A pre-recorded introduction to tumor boards and a pre-quiz were assigned to assess pre-session understanding . The in-person component consisted of three case-based learning scenarios : first , a simulated interdisciplinary tumor board panel on lung adenocarcinoma followed by two cases on squamous cell carcinoma and small cell lung cancer during which students worked collaboratively to answer board-style multiple choice questions on case-specific basic science . Seventy-two students ( 9% ) completed the anonymous post-session evaluation survey . Feedback was largely positive , with 55 ( 4% ) students reporting a better understanding of multidisciplinary care . Fifty ( 4% ) students reported the session helpful in highlighting board-style lung cancer basic science content . Simulated TBs may be an effective strategy to reinforce oncology content and highlight the importance of multidisciplinary and interprofessional patient care for pre-clinical medical students .
LIPUS , low intensity pulsed ultrasounds , are considered a safe and non-invasive tool that have been used extensively in medicine for chronic diseases . We evaluated the effects produced by LIPUS on the physiological behaviour of mouse and human adipose stem cells ( ASCs ) as well as on adipose tissue explants . LIPUS stimulation for one minute did not affect mouse or human ASC proliferation or apoptosis , with no evident changes in morphology or cell growth . Further , RNA-seq analysis revealed more than 200 genes differentially expressed after ultrasound stimulation of mouse and human ASCs . Among them , the changes in gene expression mainly belong to the canonical pathways of stemness , energy metabolism or chemokine signalling . On the other hand , the migration ability of mouse and human ASCs was partially affected by the ultrasound protocol , slightly increasing their capacity to migrate , while maintaining their stemness properties . Major affection was detected on the adipocyte differentiation capacity . Indeed , LIPUS-treated ASCs were unable to differentiate into mature adipocytes and their inflammatory secretion profile was reduced in both mouse and human ASCs . These effects were confirmed on an ex vivo model of adipose tissue explants , demonstrating that LIPUS also provoked an anti-inflammatory profile in the adipose tissue while reducing adipocytes differentiation and lipids content . Overall , the strong adipogenesis blockade , the reduction of their secretion profile and the RNA-seq analysis suggest that LIPUS-treated ASCs may be prevented from differentiating into mature adipocytes and from exacerbating inflammation , thus limiting their contribution to obesity .
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to refine the prognostic stratification provided by the International Prognostic Index ( IPI ) for patients diagnosed with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) in a northern Chinese cohort and to construct a more precise prognostic nomogram to facilitate individualized treatment strategies and improve survival outcomes . METHODS : Clinical data from 1 , 364 patients diagnosed with DLBCL between January 2000 and December 2019 were retrospectively analyzed across multiple centers in Beijing and Shanxi , China . A prognostic nomogram model for overall survival ( OS ) was developed incorporating the following variables : age , disease stage , Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group ( ECOG ) performance status , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) levels , involvement of various extranodal sites , and disease progression within 6 months ( POD6 ) . Model performance was evaluated through receiver-operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis , calibration curves , concordance index ( C-index ) , and area under the curve ( AUC ) metrics . RESULTS : The developed nomogram demonstrated consistent predictive capacity , with AUC values exceeding 7 at 1- , 3- , and 5-year time points . Calibration plots indicated close alignment with the ideal reference line , with slopes approximating 1 , supporting the model ' s predictive accuracy and clinical relevance . POD6 was identified as the most significant high-risk factor associated with decreased OS ( hazard ratio [HR] = 13 , 95% confidence interval [CI] : 03-51 , p < 0001 ) . Among the IPI components , all except ECOG performance status and extranodal involvement remained significant . Notably , central nervous system involvement exhibited the strongest adverse prognostic effect among extranodal sites ( HR = 61 , 95% CI : 03-51 , p = 035 ) . CONCLUSION : A novel prognostic nomogram was established for patients with DLBCL , offering improved prognostic accuracy compared to the traditional IPI . This model presents clinical utility in supporting personalized management and treatment planning . CLINICAL REGISTRATION NUMBER : Not applicable .
The functionality and structural integrity of the cardiovascular system are critically dependent on vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs ) . Human mesenchymal stem cells ( hMSCs ) have significant potential for differentiating into VSMCs , making them a valuable resource in regenerative medicine and the development of vascular grafts . This study explored the synergistic effects of micropatterned substrates and TGF-beta1 on the differentiation of hMSCs into VSMCs . HMSCs were cultured on both micropatterned and flat substrates for a duration of 6 days , with some groups receiving TGF-beta1 treatment , after which cell morphology and the expression of specific smooth muscle markers were evaluated through Western blotting , immunofluorescence staining , and RT-qPCR . Results indicated that hMSCs on micropatterned substrates treated with TGF-beta1 exhibited significantly elevated protein levels of smooth muscle myosin heavy chain ( MYH11 ) compared with hMSCs on flat substrates without TGF-beta1 ( p < 001 ) . Additionally , MYH11 expression was markedly enhanced in samples cultured on micropatterned substrates with TGF-beta Furthermore , hMSCs treated with TGF-beta1 on flat substrates exhibited increased cadherin-11 mRNA expression compared with both micropatterned and flat substrates lacking TGF-beta1 ( p < 05 ) . Interestingly , KLF4 protein levels were significantly higher in hMSCs on flat substrates without TGF-beta1 compared to those cultured on micropatterned substrates with TGF-beta1 treatment ( p < 001 ) . In conclusion , this study demonstrated that the combination of micropatterned substrates and TGF-beta1 treatment preferentially enhances MYH11 expression , indicative of advanced smooth muscle cell organization , along with modulating KLF4 levels and upregulating cadherin-11 expression in hMSCs . These findings provide critical insights into the differentiation pathways of MSCs into VSMCs and may inform the design of improved vascular grafts that better replicate the properties of native blood vessels .
The association between obesity and cancer risk carries substantial public health ramifications as obesity promotes cancer advancement via many cellular and molecular mechanisms . This study utilizes Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses ( PRISMA ) and narrative systematic review guidelines to evaluate 221 research articles selected from an initial collection of 1 , 288 publications sourced from multiple databases . Obesity-driven cancer risk is linked to hormonal imbalances including increased oestrogen levels that heighten the likelihood of breast and endometrial cancers , and insulin resistance that activates the insulin/ Insulin and Insulin-like Growth Factor 1 ( IGF-1 ) pathway promoting colorectal cancer progression . Chronic low-grade inflammation , metabolic dysfunction , and hypoxia in expanding adipose tissue contribute to pancreatic , oesophageal , colorectal , renal , and liver malignancies . Recent research has identified novel mechanisms that drive obesity-induced cancer progression . The adipose tissue secretome , extracellular vesicle-mediated lipid and RNA transfer , ferroptosis resistance , and metabolic reprogramming via Cluster of Differentiation 36 ( CD36 ) , Fatty Acid Binding Protein 4 ( FABP4 ) , and Carnitine Palmitoyl transferase 1A ( CPT1A ) create a tumour-permissive microenvironment . Obesity-induced epigenetic memory sustains cancer risk even after weight loss through persistent histone modifications ( Histone H3 Lysine 4 Trimethylation ( H3K4me3 ) , Histone H3 Lysine 27 Trimethylation ( H3K27me3 ) , DNA methylation , and RNA modifications , particularly through the Fat Mass and Obesity-Associated ( FTO ) gene . Additionally , organ and cell size expansion increase mutation susceptibility . Emerging pathways including the Von Hippel-Lindau ( VHL ) -Hypoxia-Inducible Factor ( HIF ) axis , PR Domain Zinc Finger Protein 16 ( PRDM16 ) /Uncoupling Protein 1 ( UCP1 ) inhibition , Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) -driven FABP4 upregulation , and Yes-Associated Protein ( YAP ) /Transcriptional Co-Activator with PDZ-Binding Motif ( TAZ ) signalling , further highlight obesity ' s role in oncogenesis . Future research should investigate weight-loss drugs ' effects on cancer pathways , expand demographic diversity , and develop biomarkers for adiposity . Integrating Mendelian randomization , multi-omics , and artificial intelligence could reveal novel therapeutic targets . A comprehensive prevention strategy combining lifestyle interventions , pharmacological therapies , and biomarker-driven diagnostics is crucial to reducing obesity-related cancer burden and improving patient outcomes .
The escalating threat of antibiotic resistance , particularly in Staphylococcus aureus ( including methicillin-resistant strains , MRSA ) , underscores the urgent need for novel therapeutics . Sofalcone ( Sof ) , a chalcone derivative from Sophora subprostrata with established anti-inflammatory and anti-ulcer properties , exhibits promising yet underexplored antibacterial activity . Here , we demonstrate that Sof potently inhibits S . aureus and MRSA while showing minimal cytotoxicity in human cells . Notably , Sof synergized with amoxicillin , and significantly reduced the pathogenicity of S . aureus through inhibiting biofilm formation addressing key virulence factors . Through chemoproteomic profiling using a clickable Sof-derived probe , ribosomal proteins , specifically the 50S subunit protein rplB , were identified as primary targets . Sof covalently binds to rplB via cysteine residues , as validated by cellular thermal shift assays , microscale thermophoresis , and competition assays . Bio-orthogonal noncanonical amino acid tagging revealed that Sof disrupts bacterial protein synthesis by impairing ribosomal function , a mechanism distinct from conventional antibiotics . In a murine model of S . aureus-induced acute lung injury , Sof greatly reduced bacterial load in lungs , attenuated systemic inflammation , and mitigated histopathological damage . Its dual antibacterial and anti-inflammatory efficacy , coupled with activity against Gram-negative Escherichia coli , highlights broad-spectrum potential . This study unveils a covalent ribosomal-targeting strategy , positioning Sof as a multifaceted candidate against multidrug-resistant infections . Our findings bridge natural product pharmacology and mechanistic antimicrobial discovery , offering a template for combating the global antibiotic resistance crisis .
Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is one of the most common tumors in the world . A recent area of study for the treatment of patients with solid tumors is anti-tumor immunity . PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors were beneficial for cancer patients with multiple tumor types . However , their efficacy for CRC is low . Thus , there is an urgent need to explore additional co-inhibitory tools such as VISTA for CRC treatment . ObjectiveThe current study aimed to evaluate expression of VISTA on T cell subsets in patients with CRC and its correlation with other prognostic markers . Patients and methodsThe study included 31 patients with CRC and 25 healthy controls . All participants were subjected to full history taking , clinical examination , routine laboratory investigations , and flow cytometric detection of VISTA expression on T cell subsets on peripheral blood ( PB ) . In addition to detection of VISTA expression on T cell subsets on tissue samples of both malignant CRC and normal colon tissue of the CRC patients . ResultsIn the peripheral blood , the expression of VISTA on CD4 ( + ) T helper and CD8 ( + ) T cytotoxic cells was significantly higher in CRC patients than the normal controls . There was no significant difference in VISTA expression on double positive T cells ( CD4 ( + ) CD8 ( + ) ) between the CRC patients and normal controls . In tissue samples , expression of VISTA on CD4 + T helper , CD8 + T cytotoxic , and double positive T ( CD4 + CD8 + ) cells in the malignant tissue of CRC patients was significantly higher than that in normal colonic tissue . Also , in CRC patients , the expression of VISTA on CD4 ( + ) T helper , CD8 ( + ) T cytotoxic , and double positive T cells in both malignant CRC tissue and normal colonic tissue was significantly higher than its expression PB . ConclusionThe higher expression of VISTA in CRC patients than the healthy controls and its higher levels in malignant CRC tissue and normal colonic tissue than PB of CRC patients suggest the role VISTA in the pathogenesis of CRC .
Wheat stripe rust , caused by an obligate biotrophic pathogen Puccinia striiformis f . sp . tritici ( Pst ) seriously threatens wheat production . Discovering and utilizing of wheat resistance genes is the most effective and economical method to control diseases . The G-type lectin receptor-like kinase ( LecRLKs ) involved in biotic stress perception , while their roles in wheat resistance to Pst remain elusive . In our study , we identified 398 G-type LecRKs in wheat through BLAST and HMM profiling . The transcript level of 16 random selected G-type LecRKs from each subfamily were analyzed and found TaSRLK is highly induced by avirulent Pst CYR23 infection . TaSRLK-silenced wheat plants showed reduced resistance to Pst with increased hyphal length and decreased HO accumulation . Surprisingly , TaSRLK was localized to the chloroplast and can induce cell death in Nicotiana benthamiana . Further , TaSRLK was shown to interact with and phosphorylate a peroxidase TaPrx Importantly , TaPrx1 involved in wheat resistance to Pst through regulating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production . Together these findings demonstrate that TaSRLK positively modulates ROS-associated wheat resistance by binding with TaPrx
The tropomyosin-related tyrosine kinases or neurotrophic tyrosine kinase receptors are a group of tyrosine kinases that play a crucial role in regulating neuronal growth and development . Neurotrophins are a class of protein-secreting cells that serve as the primary ligand for the Trk receptors . The four primary neurotrophins are nerve growth factor ( NGF ) , brain-derived nerve factor ( BDNF ) , neurotrophin-3 , and neurotrophin-4/ Mounting evidence suggests that Trk receptors can be categorized into three types : TrkA , TrkB , and TrkC . These receptors play a crucial role in facilitating neuronal growth and development . Trk receptors influence the survival and differentiation of neurons via many signalling cascades . Neurotrophin interaction with Trk receptors triggers a signalling cascade involving PLC , PI3K/Akt , and Ras/MAPK signalling pathways . Emerging evidence suggests that diminished neurotrophic support , changes in Trk receptor expression , or disruptions in signalling cascades play a crucial role in the development of various neurological disorders , including Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , Huntington ' s disease ( HD ) , autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) , and many more . This review specifically explores therapeutic approaches targeting Trk receptors , their ligands , and Trk signaling in the context of various brain disorders . We focus on the potential for modulating or inhibiting Trk receptors as a treatment strategy for brain diseases .
Although evidence suggests that an imbalance in Th1 and Th2 cell responses contributes to the pathogenesis of schizophrenia , the epigenetic mechanisms involved remain largely unknown . Here , we applied a combination of bioinformatics and experimental approaches to evaluate the alterations in Th1 and Th2-related genes in schizophrenia patients . Based on bioinformatics analysis , we selected Th1 ( IFNG-AS1 , TBX21 , IFNG ) and Th2-related genes ( TH2LCRR , GATA3 , IL-4 ) , which are potentially implicated in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia . For experimental validation , we measured the expression levels of these transcripts in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) from patients with acute-phase schizophrenia and controls . Bioinformatics findings revealed 2 lncRNAs , 9 miRNAs , 76 mRNAs , and 234 transcription factors ( TFs ) related to Th1 and Th2 cell lineages , which are involved in schizophrenia . Subsequent analysis of qPCR data showed a remarkable increase in the expression levels of GATA3 and TH2LCRR in the PBMCs of patients with schizophrenia compared to controls . Interestingly , both TH2LCRR and GATA3 exhibited greater diagnostic value in female subjects . However , our data showed no significant difference in the expression levels of Th1-related genes ( IFNG-AS1 , TBX21 , IFNG ) and IL-4 between diagnostic groups . Furthermore , the expression levels of IFNG-AS1 and TH2LCRR were positively correlated with cytokine expression in patient subjects . These findings further support the pivotal role of Th1/Th2 imbalance in the pathogenesis of schizophrenia . Our data highlight the necessity to evaluate the potential efficacy of immune-related genes to identify promising biomarkers for both the diagnosis and therapy of patients with schizophrenia .
In an attempt to rationalize the search for new potential Chemotherapeutic agents , a new series of 2-anilinobenzimidazol derivatives with CDK activity have been synthesized . The newly synthesized compounds have been assessed for their cytotoxic effects and CDK activity . These presented compounds showed strong inhibition of cell proliferation in various solid cancer cell lines , suggesting a promising approach for treating malignant tumors . Compounds 4 g , 4j , 4 m , and 4q displayed remarkably strong anticancer potencies against HepG2 cells , with IC of 59 , 54 , 56 and 88 microM , respectively , compared to the positive control , DOX ( IC = 50 microM ) . while compound 4 m , and 4q had the highest anticancer activity against HeLa cells , with an IC of 39 and 71 microM , respectively , compared to the positive control DOX ( IC = 57 microM ) . On the other hand , comparison of IC values against MCF-7 cells revealed that compounds 4 g , 4 m , and 4q showed significant anticancer potency with IC of 08 , 18 and 19 microM , respectively compared to that of the positive control DOX ( IC = 17 microM ) . Moreover , compound 4 m and 4q were the most potent CDK9 and CDK12 inhibitors . Furthermore , a molecular docking simulation were performed to explore the ability of compounds 4 m to adopt the common binding pattern of CDK9 and CDK12/T1 inhibitors . In silico ADMET results showed that all compounds have favourable drug-like properties since they met Lipinski ' s rule of five criteria . Overall , the synthesized anilinopyrimidine derivatives exhibit significant potential as chemotherapeutic agents .
Beta-glucosidase , a ubiquitous enzyme , is responsible for catalyzing the hydrolysis of beta-glycosidic linkages present in polysaccharides and contributes significantly to several industrial sectors such as food , agriculture , and biofuel production . beta-glucosidases can convert polydatin to resveratrol through de-glycosylation . Resveratrol is important for human health and has potential applications in pharmacology . The preference of enzymatic conversion methods for resveratrol production improves the importance of beta-glucosidases . The glucose tolerance of beta-glucosidases also significantly impacts their applicability . Because the inhibition of many beta-glucosidase ' s activity by their reaction product , glucose , is a limiting factor for industrial applications . In this study , a robust beta-glucosidase was isolated from a novel-defined Jiangella ureilytica KC603 strain . The beta-glucosidase encoding gene ( JurBglKC603 ) was cloned and expressed in E . coli BL21 ( DE3 ) cells and a 1 kDa protein was purified using Ni-affinity column chromatography . The efficient polydatin deglycosylation capacity of JurBglKC603 was determined by Glucose Oxidase-Peroxidase ( GOPOD ) assay . JurBglKC603 exhibits remarkable resistance to glucose concentrations of up to 3 M . The enzyme remained active across a broad pH spectrum and was unaffected by most heavy metal ions , except for Hg ( 2+ ) . The kinetic parameters of JurBglKC603 were K ( m ) = 44 mM , V ( max ) = 87 U . mg ( -1 ) , k ( cat ) = 1 s ( -1 ) , and k ( cat ) /K ( m ) = 47 , 954 M ( -1 ) . s ( -1 ) against pNPG and K ( m ) = 6 mM , V ( max ) = 20 U . mg ( -1 ) , k ( cat ) = 2 s ( -1 ) , and k ( cat ) /K ( m ) = 3822 M ( -1 ) . s ( -1 ) against polydatin . Molecular docking studies have demonstrated that Gln19 , His120 , Trp411 , and Glu410 play a vital role in the interaction with polydatin .
Mixed chimerism occurs frequently with the risk of graft rejection for aplastic anemia patients undergoing matched sibling donor hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in cyclophosphamide ( CY ) and anti-thymocyte globulin ( ATG ) conditioning . So far , no one knows how to adjust immunosuppression ( IS ) during MC . We retrospectively analyzed 87 consecutive pediatric patients . Early withdrawal ( EW ) IS and donor lymphocyte infusion were attempted to reverse MC . The rate of MC was 26% ( n = 23 ) . Low dose CY ( 120-150 mg/kg ) was a risk factor for MC ( P = 0002 ) and increasing the dosage of fludarabine did not eliminate it . Patients receiving 200 mg/kg CY had the lowest MC rate ( 8% ) and best 3-year graft-versus-host disease/failure-free survival ( GFFS ; 95% ) . Donor chimerism in T cells was more sensitive than that in whole blood ( P = 001 ) . In 17 patients with early-onset MC , EW IS strategy was helpful in improving complete chimerism ( CC ) ( EW cohort : 63 versus non-EW cohort : 295 days ; P = 008 ) . Our study shows that CY + ATG conditioning needs to be intensified to maintain engraftment and 200 mg/kg CY + 150 mg/m2 FLU is recommended for basic conditioning . The EW IS strategy should be considered as an important option to improve donor chimerism in early-onset MC . Clinical trial registration : URL : https : //www . chictr . org . cn ; ChiCTR- ( Retrospective registration in 2019/5/31 ) .
In the global trend of vigorously developing hydrogen energy , proton-conducting solid oxide electrolysis cells ( P-SOECs ) have attracted significant attention due to their advantages of high efficiency and not requiring precious metals . However , the application of P-SOECs faces challenges , particularly in developing high-performance anodes possessing both high catalytic activity and ionic conductivity . In this study , La ( 9 ) Ba ( 1 ) Co ( 7 ) Ni ( 3 ) O ( 3-delta ) ( LBCN9173 ) and La ( 9 ) Ca ( 1 ) Co ( 7 ) Ni ( 3 ) O ( 3-delta ) ( LCCN9173 ) oxides are tailored as promising anodes by machine learning model , achieving the synergistic enhancement of water oxidation reaction kinetics and proton conduction , which is confirmed by comprehensively analyzing experiment and density functional theory calculation results . Furthermore , the anodic reaction mechanisms for P-SOECs with these anodes are elucidated by analyzing distribution of relaxation time spectra and Gibbs energy of water oxidation reaction , manifesting that the dissociation of HO is facilitated on LBCN9173 anode . As a result , P-SOEC with LBCN9173 anode demonstrates a top-rank current density of 45 A cm ( -2 ) at 3 V and an extremely low polarization resistance of 05 Omega cm at 650 degrees C . This multi-scale , multi-faceted research approach not only discovered a high-performance anode but also proved the robust framework for the machine learning-assisted design of anodes for P-SOECs .
Dysregulation of hepatic metabolism is a crucial factor in the development of fatty liver disease and significantly increases the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . This study aims to identify the genes implicated in the prognosis of HCC among individuals suffering from metabolic fatty liver disease . We analysed protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) networks and constructed a weighted gene co-expression network analysis ( WGCNA ) using high-throughput gene expression profiling datasets . Our meta-analysis uncovered 442 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , comprising 30 upregulated and 412 downregulated genes . We constructed a PPI network from the DEGs and identified significant hub genes based on their degree centrality scores . Additionally , WGCNA highlighted impactful genes and tightly correlated modules , leading to the creation of a gene interaction network specific to metabolism-associated fatty liver disease ( MAFLD ) . Pathway analysis revealed the candidate regulatory gene interleukin-7 receptor ( IL7R ) , which is involved in cytokine-mediated signalling across both interaction networks . Pro-inflammatory cytokines interact with IL7R , activating the JAK/STAT pathway that influences gene expression throughout progression to HCC . IL7R activates STAT3 , affecting the behaviour of activated hepatic stellate cells following initial liver damage . Furthermore , the expression of the IL7R gene was validated as a predictor of HCC malignancy through a logistic regression model , resulting in an accuracy of 92% . Findings suggest that IL7R could be the target gene associated with metabolism-linked HCC . It could significantly impact the management of metabolic-associated fatty liver disease ( MAFLD ) and may help enhance HCC diagnostics to improve patient outcomes .
In recent decades , advanced therapeutic modalities such as therapeutic cells , viral vectors , and extracellular vesicles ( exosomes ) , have emerged as effective therapies for intractable diseases . These therapeutic modalities produced through bioprocesses must be purified from contaminants . Effective separation methods are essential for optimizing therapeutic modalities . This review highlights innovative temperature-modulated separation methods enabled by the thermoresponsive polymer poly ( N-isopropylacrylamide ) ( PNIPAAm ) . The design of PNIPAAm-modified interfaces plays a pivotal role in ensuring precise and efficient separation . We summarize the recent advancements in the application of temperature-modulated separation methods for cells , viral vectors , and exosomes , with a focus on the design of PNIPAAm interfaces .
BACKGROUND : Digestive tract cancers account for a significant proportion of the global cancer burden , and their prevention and treatment pose a worldwide challenge . Metformin , as a first-line treatment for diabetes , offers advantages such as high safety and affordability . Previous research has suggested that the use of metformin may reduce the risk of cancers , but there is still a lack of strong evidence regarding its causal relationship with digestive tract cancers . METHODS : We employed Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis to investigate the causal relationships between metformin use and various digestive tract cancers . We selected single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) related to the Adenosine 5 ' -monophosphate ( AMP ) -activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) , which is associated with the action of metformin , as instrumental variables . The inverse variance-weighted method ( IVW ) was the most important method . Cochran ' s Q was used to detect heterogeneity , and the MR-PRESSO test and MR-Egger regression were used to detect horizontal pleiotropy . Subsequently , we verified the toxicity and proliferation inhibition of metformin on Huh 7 and PLC in hepatocellular carcinoma cells . RESULTS : IVW results showed that metformin use reduced the risk of liver and bile duct cancers ( OR = 994 , 95% CI 990-999 ; P = 008 ) , but there were no causal relationships with other digestive tract cancers . Our cell experiments have confirmed this point . CONCLUSION : Metformin may be used for the prevention or treatment of liver and bile duct cancers .
This article describes a robust method for dual labeling of newly synthesized proteins and existing proteins . Assessing the properties of individual newly synthesized proteins from the bulk proteome is challenging due to difficulty in specifically isolating them . Previous methods such as non-natural amino acid labeling , isotope-labeled amino acid labeling , and puromycin labeling are effective for ensemble measurements . However , these existing methods do not support live-cell tracking or dynamic studies for a specific target protein . We designed a chemical genetics-based method for selective labeling of existing and newly synthesized proteins ( ( CG ) -SLENP ) . Using nuclear lamin A ( LA ) tagged with a HaloTag ( HaloTag-LA ) as an exemplar protein and various Halo ligands , we describe ( CG ) -SLENP for labeling existing proteins and newly synthesized proteins . This approach can label these proteins either one at a time or dually in the same live cell . This method holds great potential for broader applications to study any given protein of interest . ( c ) 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC . Basic Protocol 1 : ( CG ) -SLENP labeling using clickable Halo ligands Basic Protocol 2 : ( CG ) -SLENP labeling using fluorescent Halo ligands .
Cannabidiol ( CBD ) , a non-psychoactive phytocannabinoid derived from Cannabis sativa , has emerged as a promising therapeutic agent due to its diverse pharmacological properties , including potent anti-inflammatory , neuroprotective , and immunomodulatory effects . CBD modulates immune responses , including the regulation of T cell activity , induction of macrophage apoptosis , suppression of pro-inflammatory cytokines , and modulation of signaling pathways involved in inflammation and immune homeostasis . A comprehensive literature search was conducted using PubMed , Scopus , and Web of Science databases to identify relevant preclinical and clinical studies on CBD ' s immunomodulatory effects . Preclinical and clinical studies demonstrate its efficacy in treating autoimmune diseases such as Type 1 diabetes , multiple sclerosis , rheumatoid arthritis , and inflammatory bowel disease , along with its potential in neuropathic pain and cancer therapy . Recent advancements in nanotechnology-based delivery systems have further enhanced CBD ' s therapeutic potential by improving its solubility , bioavailability , and targeted delivery , enabling innovative approaches for wound healing , inflammation management , and cancer treatment . However , challenges such as variability in immune responses , limited long-term safety data , and potential drug-drug interactions persist . This review comprehensively examines CBD ' s pharmacokinetics , pharmacodynamics , and immunomodulatory mechanisms , highlighting its clinical potential , existing limitations , and future directions in advancing its integration into precision medicine and immune regulation .
Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is the third most common cause of death worldwide and has high mortality and a poor prognosis . Long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) are non-coding RNAs longer than 200 nucleotides that play roles in cancer through multiple mechanisms . TMEM51-AS1 is a newly discovered 40 , 650 bp lncRNA . Our results showed that TMEM51-AS1 expression was significantly downregulated in CRC tissues ( fold change = 74 , P < 0001 ) . This finding was confirmed in 20 pairs of CRC carcinoma and paracancerous tissues ( fold change = 5 , P < 001 ) . Additionally , TMEM51-AS1 expression was found to be significantly reduced in CRC cell lines compared to normal human intestinal epithelial cells ( P < 001 ) . Bioinformatic analysis revealed that TMEM51-AS1 expression was associated with immune escape , RNA methylation , and DNA damage and repair . TMEM51-AS1 may also activate energy metabolism pathways to participate in cancer development . Drug sensitivity analysis confirmed that several drugs are more effective in CRC patients with high expression of TMEM51-AS In conclusion , our study demonstrates that TMEM51-AS1 can suppress the progression of CRC .
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : This review explores the role of cell communication network ( CCN ) proteins in regulating skeletal physiology , aging , and disease , particularly within the context of balanced bone remodeling . RECENT FINDINGS : Recent conceptualization of paracrine and endocrine networks in bone marrow as a form of osteoimmunological crosstalk suggests a significant role for matricellular signaling in regulating bone homeostasis . As multifunctional adapters of cell-matrix interactions , CCNs are emerging as a focal point for parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) signaling and regulation of the RANKL/RANK/OPG axis in skeletal aging . Altered bone marrow CCN expression creates a permissive environment for accelerated postmenopausal bone loss and may contribute to the pathogenesis of osteoporosis and other diseases related to skeletal aging . CCNs modulate fundamental signaling mechanisms in bone development , homeostasis and repair . During aging , dysregulation of CCNs may negatively affect skeletal health and contribute to disease progression . As a result , CCNs may constitute promising therapeutic targets for improving and maintaining aging bone health .
BACKGROUND : Head and neck squamous cell carcinomas ( HNSCs ) are among the most common tumors worldwide . Despite the availability of various diagnostic and therapeutic strategies , the incidence and mortality rates of HNSC remain high . Cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) , as a major component of the tumor microenvironment , exhibit diverse biological characteristics in terms of origin , genetics , and phenotype , and have been increasingly recognized for their roles in tumor progression . METHODS : To investigate the potential role of CAFs in HNSC , we performed a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis based on the TCGA HNSC cohort . We applied single-sample gene set enrichment analysis ( ssGSEA ) , single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) analysis , differential expression analysis , Cox regression , LASSO regression , and pathway enrichment analysis to identify CAF-related genes and assess their prognostic value . RESULTS : We successfully identified a set of CAF-related genes and stratified the HNSC patients into high- and low-CAF groups . Based on the expression of these genes , we constructed a prognostic prediction model using LASSO and multivariate Cox regression analyses . A nomogram integrating the risk score and clinical characteristics was developed to improve individualized survival prediction . Enrichment analysis revealed that the type I interferon signaling pathway , cellular response to type I interferon , defense response to symbiont , and extracellular matrix organization were significantly associated with CAFs in HNSC . CONCLUSION : Our study provides a novel CAF-based prognostic model and nomogram for predicting patient outcomes in HNSC . These findings highlight the importance of CAFs in the tumor microenvironment and their potential as therapeutic and prognostic biomarkers .
Aging is a complex biological process that detrimentally affects the brain and cerebrovascular system , contributing to the pathogenesis of age-related diseases like vascular cognitive impairment and dementia ( VCID ) and Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . While cell-autonomous mechanisms that occur within cells , independent of external signals from neighboring cells or systemic factors , account for some aspects of aging , they cannot explain the entire aging process . Non-autonomous , paracrine and endocrine , pathways also play a crucial role in orchestrating brain and vascular aging . The systemic milieu modulates aging through pro-geronic and anti-geronic circulating factors that mediate age-related decline or confer rejuvenative effects . This review explores the impact of systemic factors on cerebrovascular and brain aging , with a particular focus on findings from heterochronic parabiosis , blood exchange , and plasma transfer experiments . We discuss how these factors influence fundamental cellular and molecular processes of aging and impact cerebrovascular endothelial function , neurovascular coupling mechanisms , blood-brain barrier integrity , neuroinflammation , capillary density , and amyloid pathologies , with significant consequences for cognitive function . Additionally , we address the translational potential and challenges of modifying the systemic milieu to promote brain health and prevent age-related cognitive impairment .
The maintenance of genomic stability is crucial for life , threatened by DNA damage from both endogenous and exogenous sources . Cells employ DNA damage response through various repair mechanisms and DNA damage tolerance via translesion synthesis ( TLS ) , to bypass DNA lesions and prevent replication fork collapse . This review explores the roles of human TLS polymerases in navigating replication stress , a critical process that can lead to genomic instability and cancer . It discusses TLS polymerase ' s dual role in genome preservation under certain physiological conditions while may also contribute to adaptive mutagenesis , highlighting their significance in DNA damage tolerance , somatic hypermutations , and cancer therapeutics . Understanding these mechanisms offers insights for developing targeted cancer therapies .
PURPOSE : This study aimed to identify new genes associated with total fertilization failure ( TFF ) by intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) . METHODS : Whole-exome sequencing ( WES ) was performed on a patient presenting with TFF by ICSI . To assess the spermatozoa ' s morphology and ultrastructure , hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E ) staining and transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) were employed . Furthermore , immunofluorescence staining ( IF ) and western blot ( WB ) techniques were utilized to investigate the alterations in expression and localization of CABS1 following the transfection of two mutant plasmids . Co-immunoprecipitation ( Co-IP ) was conducted to investigate in interaction of wild-type/mutant CABS1 with another perinuclear theca protein ACTL IF was conducted on spermatozoa from the patient to detect the expression levels of CABS1 and PLCzeta . RESULTS : Homozygous mutations in CABS1 were identified in a patient with TFF after ICSI . A high proportion of spermatozoa collected from this man exhibited abnormal morphology and low motility . TEM revealed an absence of the acrosome in the spermatozoa . In vitro experiments have demonstrated that the nonsense mutation in CABS1 leads to truncation of the protein and a reduction in its interaction with ACTL IF analysis of spermatozoa from the patient showed a weakened and a diffuse signal for CABS1 , along with abnormal localization of the sperm-borne oocyte activation factor PLCzeta , ultimately leading to TFF . CONCLUSION : Our results suggest that CABS1 may be crucial for acrosome formation and the localization of PLCzeta . Mutations in CABS1 may lead to teratozoospermia , TFF , and male infertility .
OBJECTIVES : Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a primary contributor to chronic functional impairment in human populations , initiating complex neuroinflammatory cascades and neurodegeneration . Despite extensive research efforts , the precise pathophysiological pathways remain incompletely characterized . This investigation aims to establish a novel therapeutic strategy that targets critical molecular pathways post-injury , potentially addressing the current limitations in the clinical management of TBI patients . METHODS : The single-cell data of cortical tissue from mice with TBI were obtained from public databases ( GSE160763 ) , which was utilized to identify alterations in in the composition of disease-associated cells and related molecules as the disease progresses . Functional and pathway enrichment analyses were conducted to elucidate the functional characteristics of microglia and astrocyte subpopulations . Trajectory analysis was employed to investigate cell differentiation characteristics . Subsequently , we examined the expression and function of microglia-specific molecules , such as IFI204 , along with their underlying molecular mechanisms using Western blotting , immunofluorescence , co-immunoprecipitation ( CO-IP ) , histopathology , behavioral tests , and molecular docking to assess binding status , as well as molecular dynamics simulations . Finally , we used molecular docking technology to find small molecule compounds that IFI204 can stably bind to . RESULTS : We identified nine major cell populations , most of which undergo dynamic changes following TBI . Astrocytes and microglia were the predominant populations in each group , and further cluster analysis revealed that the proportions of interferon ( IFN ) and axonogenesis-related microglial subtypes increased after TBI . Trajectory inference analysis indicated that the expression of Ifi204 is upregulated in microglia during disease progression . Conditional microglial knockdown of IFI204 significantly improved neurological deficits in mice , and alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction and microglial pyroptosis . Mechanistically , SENP7 , identified as a novel molecule , interacts with IFI204 in microglia , catalyzes the deSUMOylation of IFI204 , and promotes STING signal activation , ultimately driving microglial pyroptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction . CONCLUSIONS : The interaction between IFI204 and SENP7 promotes microglial pyroptosis and related mitochondrial dysfunction . Furthermore , in the case of TBI , we hypothesize that targeting IFI204 might yield therapeutic benefits .
ABS : OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to compare the performance of three large language models ( LLMs ) -ChatGPT-5 , ChatGPT-4 , and Open AI-o1-in addressing clinical questions related to Programmed Cell Death in multiple myeloma . By evaluating each model ' s accuracy , comprehensiveness , and self-correcting capabilities , the investigation sought to determine the most effective tool for supporting clinical decision-making in this specialized oncological context . METHODS : A comprehensive set of forty clinical questions was curated from recent high-impact oncology journals , International Myeloma Working Group ( IMWG ) guidelines , and reputable medical databases , covering various aspects of Programmed Cell Death in multiple myeloma . These questions were refined and validated by a panel of four hematologists-oncologists with expertise in the field . Each question was individually posed to ChatGPT-5 , ChatGPT-4 , and Open AI-o1 in controlled sessions . Responses were anonymized and evaluated by the same panel using a five-point Likert scale assessing accuracy , depth , and completeness . Responses were categorized as " excellent , " " satisfactory , " or " insufficient " based on cumulative scores . Additionally , the models ' self-correcting abilities were assessed by providing feedback on initially insufficient responses and re-evaluating the revised answers . Interrater reliability was measured using Cohen ' s Kappa coefficients . RESULTS : Open AI-o1 consistently generated the most extensive and detailed responses , achieving significantly higher total scores across all domains compared to ChatGPT-5 and ChatGPT- It demonstrated the lowest proportion of " insufficient " responses and the highest percentage of " excellent " answers , particularly excelling in guideline-based questions . Open AI-o1 also exhibited superior self-correcting capacity , effectively enhancing its responses upon receiving feedback . The highest Cohen ' s Kappa coefficient among the models indicated greater consistency in evaluations by clinical experts . User satisfaction surveys revealed that 85% of hematologists-oncologists rated Open AI-o1 as " highly satisfactory , " compared to 60% for ChatGPT-4 and 45% for ChatGPT- CONCLUSION : Open AI-o1 outperforms ChatGPT-5 and ChatGPT-4 in accuracy , depth , and reliability when addressing complex clinical questions related to Programmed Cell Death in multiple myeloma . Its advanced " thinking " ability facilitates comprehensive and evidence-based responses , making it a more dependable tool for clinical decision support . These findings suggest that Open AI-o1 holds significant potential for enhancing clinical practices in specialized oncological fields , though ongoing validation and integration with human expertise remain essential .
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : Hypereosinophilia is defined as an absolute eosinophil count greater than 1500 cells/mm This is a condition often observed in the pediatric population , with benign/self-resolving to life-threatening etiologies . Identifying the cause of hypereosinophilia can be challenging , given its broad associated differential diagnosis and diversity of presentations . This review provides an overview of eosinophil biology and explores causes of hypereosinophilia in children , emphasizing diagnostic and therapeutic challenges , while underscoring the importance of recognizing rare causes including primary hypereosinophilic syndrome ( HES ) . RECENT FINDINGS : Classification of hypereosinophilic subtypes has evolved , as has understanding of etiologies with advances in modern diagnostic tools . Newer therapeutic options with low side-effect profiles have expanded treatment options in patients with HES . Despite recent improvements in medical management , HES remains a serious medical condition with considerable morbidity and potential mortality . Early identification and appropriate treatment can improve prognosis and reduce the burden of disease in children .
Thyroid cancer ( TC ) represents the most common endocrine malignancy ; however , the intricacies of its carcinogenesis pose significant challenges to therapeutic interventions . A comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms that drive TC progression is crucial for the development of effective treatment strategies , especially considering the increasingly recognized role of non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) in oncogenesis . Notwithstanding recent advancements , the regulatory functions of long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) and their interactions with microRNAs ( miRNAs ) in the context of TC are not yet fully elucidated . This review aims to address this knowledge deficiency by investigating the dual roles of lncRNAs in the pathogenesis of TC , specifically their regulation of programmed cell death ( PCD ) pathways . Current literature indicates that disrupted competitive endogenous RNA ( ceRNA ) networks are involved in drug resistance , epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , as well as tumor proliferation , angiogenesis , invasion , and metastasis in TC . The basis of cancer therapy-induced tumor cell elimination is programmed cell death ( PCD ) , which includes well-studied processes such as apoptosis , autophagy , and ferroptosis as well as novel pathways , such as cuproptosis , immunogenic cell death ( ICD ) , and PANoptosis . Recent research has shown the critical function of long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) in modifying these several PCD pathways , impacting TC growth and therapy response . This review synthesizes evidence on how lncRNAs regulate PCD to influence TC progression and therapeutic outcomes . Additionally , we examine the clinical relevance of lncRNAs in TC , highlighting their potential as biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis , therapeutic targets , and contributors to drug resistance , while emphasizing recent advancements in this field .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the prognostic value of circ_0000043 in cervical cancer ( CC ) and its involvement in the modulation of patients ' prognostic progression . METHODS : Clinical data of 136 CC patients were included , postoperative CC and adjacent normal tissues were stored at -80 degrees C , and patients were followed up for 5 years for prognosis . RT-qPCR detected circ_ 0000043 and miR-590-5p expression , Kaplan-Meier curves recorded for prognostic survival , multivariate cox analysis of patients ' prognostic risk factors . Moreover , CCK8 assessed cell proliferation , Transwell detected migration and invasion . Dual luciferase reporter assay and RIP examined the interactions between circ_ 0000043 and miR-590-5p . RESULTS : circ_ 0000043 was down-regulated in CC patients , and patients with low expression of circ_ 0000043 had worse survival . Low expression of circ_0000043 , lymph node metastasis , and FIGO were all unfavorable factors threatening the prognosis of CC . circ_0000043 overexpression markedly inhibited the proliferation , migration , and invasion of cancer cells . miR-590-5p is a direct target miRNA of circ_ miR-590-5p mimic prominently resisted the altered cellular functions induced by circ_ CONCLUSION : Patients with low circ_0000043 expression have poor prognosis as it fuels CC progression by boosting cancer cell proliferation , migration , and invasion via miR-590-5p . Our study provides new ideas for the prognosis and treatment of CC .
As one of the leading causes of death worldwide , lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) currently lacks satisfactory treatment outcomes . The inflammatory process , closely associated with the formation of the tumor microenvironment and immune evasion , plays a crucial role in LUAD development . This study utilized data from public databases to analyze inflammation-related genes ( INF ) associated with prognosis in LUAD . Based on differentially expressed INF , molecular subtypes of LUAD were identified . Subsequently , a novel INF scoring system was developed to establish a prognostic model for LUAD patients , assessing its independence and reliability . Comprehensive evaluations , including immune microenvironment infiltration features , somatic mutation characteristics , and differences in immune therapy responsiveness , were conducted to characterize the prognostic model associated with INF . We further selected MMP14 from the screened INF targets for further in vitro experiments . Experiments such as western blot , qRT-PCR , colony-forming assay and Transwell assay confirmed that downregulation of MMP14 could inhibit the cloning , proliferation and invasion of lung cancer cells , thus confirming the results of bioinformatics . Our findings provide evidence from a new perspective on the role of inflammation in LUAD and offer new insights for clinical precision and personalized therapy .
Cancer remains a global health burden , with a pressing need for more effective treatments . This study uses a novel compound , Nickel ( II ) diperchlorate complex of the ligand ( L ) : 3 , 10-C-meso-3 , 5 , 7 , 7 , 10 , 12 , 14 , 14-octamethyl-1 , 4 , 8 , 11-tetraazacyclotetradeca-4 , 11-diene , Mediene , designated as [Ni ( II ) L] ( ClO ) , to explore its potential as an anticancer agent . Its efficacy was evaluated against Ehrlich Ascites Carcinoma ( EAC ) -bearing Swiss albino mice by monitoring tumor cell growth inhibition , survival time , tumor mass reduction , and hematological profiles . Additionally , cytotoxicity was investigated in vitro using MCF7 breast cancer cells . The apoptotic potential was evaluated through Hoechst staining , with changes in apoptosis-related gene expression ( p53 , BCL2 , BAX , PARP1 , CASP3 , CASP8 , and CASP9 ) using RT-qPCR . The test compound ' s toxicity was evaluated by monitoring hematological , biochemical , and histological changes . The compound exhibited dose-dependent growth inhibition of EAC cells with 45% inhibition at a dose of 200 microg/kg ( p < 01 ) , extended lifespan by 63% , reduced tumor weight by 83% , and restored hematological parameters in EAC-bearing mice . Cytotoxicity assays yielded LC and IC values of 73 microg/mL and 52 microg/mL , respectively . Apoptosis induction was evidenced by cell membrane blebbing , apoptotic body formation , chromosomal condensation , and nuclear fragmentation in MCF7 cells . Significant upregulation of pro-apoptotic genes such as p53 , BAX , PARP1 , CASP3 , CASP8 , and CASP9 , alongside downregulation of anti-apoptotic gene BCL2 , implied activation of the apoptotic pathway in cancer cells , followed by compound treatment . Moreover , no long-term negative impacts on tissue levels or hematological or biochemical markers were noted in the mice . Altogether , [Ni ( II ) L] ( ClO ) demonstrates promising anticancer activity and could serve as a potential chemotherapeutic agent , pending further studies .
Benzo[a]pyrene ( B[a]P ) is known to cause depression-like symptoms in mice , however , the mechanisms are still unclear . The present study aimed to establish a mouse model of depression-like behavior induced by B[a]P and to elucidate the possible underlying mechanisms . Forty robust male ICR mice were randomly categorized into 4 groups and received intraperitoneal injections ( i . p . ) of peanut oil or B[a]P at doses of 5 , 2 , or 10 mg/kg , 30 times over a period of 60 days . Behavioral assessments were conducted to evaluate depression-like symptoms , identify neuronal structural alterations and cellular apoptosis , and measure the protein levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) , tropomyosin receptor kinase B ( TrkB ) , phosphorylated TrkB ( p-TrkB ) , cAMP-response element binding protein ( CREB ) and phosphorylated CREB ( p-CREB ) in the cerebral cortex . To further explore the regulatory role of miRNA , small RNA sequencing was performed in HT22 cells treated with B[a]P at concentrations of 2 , 2 , and 20 microM , which revealed the dysregulated miRNA expression profiles . The interaction between miR-134-5p and BDNF mRNA was examined , along with its inhibitory effects in both in vivo and in vitro contexts . Findings indicated that B[a]P exposure significantly induced depression-like behavior and neuronal damage in mice in a dose-dependent manner , in contrast to the controls , and was associated with a reduction in BDNF/TrkB/CREB signaling pathway proteins in the cerebral cortex . As compared to the respective controls , B[a]P exposure notably triggered an irregular miRNA expression profile ( encompassing miR-10b-5p , miR-124-3p , miR-134-5p , and miR-155-5p ) in both the cerebral cortex of mice and HT22 cells . Owing to its uniform alterations in expression profiles in vivo and in vitro , miR-134-5p was chosen as the target miRNA for follow-up mechanistic research employing a miR-134-5p inhibitor ( at concentrations of 100 nM ) in HT22 cells . Following a 48-hour in vitro treatment with B[a]P ( 20 microM ) , there was a notable reduction in proteins linked to the BDNF/TrkB/CREB signaling pathway , in contrast to DMSO controls . This decrease was markedly ameliorated in HT22 cells that had been transfected with the miR-134-5p inhibitor . The research uncovered the pivotal function of the BDNF/TrkB/CREB signaling pathway in B[a]P-induced depressive-like behavior in vivo , and showed a regulatory role of miR-134-5p in this pathway . These findings suggest a potential intervention target against the depression-like behaviors resulting from B[a]P exposure .
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally , with tumour growth , invasion , and treatment response heavily influenced by the tumour microenvironment ( TME ) . The TME promotes tumour progression by creating an immunosuppressive environment that hampers the body ' s antitumour immune response , primarily through the Nuclear Factor Kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) and Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) pathways . These pathways contribute to chronic inflammation , immune evasion , and angiogenesis . Targeting the TME and its signalling pathways has shown potential to enhance treatment efficacy . STAT3 , a key transcription factor in lung cancer , drives tumour growth and immune suppression via the mTOR and JAK pathways . Inhibiting these pathways can block STAT3 and slow cancer progression . Promising results have been observed with mTOR inhibitors like CC-115 and Vistusertib , especially when combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors , and with JAK inhibitors such as Ruxolitinib , AZD4205 , and Filgotinib . These strategies represent a promising direction for lung cancer therapy . This review explores the intricate relationship between the TME and lung cancer , focussing on novel therapeutic approaches that target immune cells , signalling molecules , and fibroblasts within the TME to improve patient outcomes .
Ischemic stroke ( IS ) is a severe disease . The altered activation states of microglia play important roles in IS . In present study , a total of 125 C57BL/6 mice was used ( N = 6 per group ) . Middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) and oxygen-glucose deprivation ( OGD ) were performed for in vivo and in vitro model construction . The infarct size was detected using TTC staining . The nerve injury was evaluated by a neurological deficit score . OGD-treated brain microvascular endothelial cells ( BMECs ) were co-cultured with BV2 cells . Cell viability was determined by CCK-8 assay , and the apoptosis rate was identified by flow cytometry analysis . Transendothelial electronic resistance ( TEER ) of the cells was measured by TEER measurement . Molecular interactions were analyzed using dual-luciferase reporter gene , ChIP , and Co-IP assays . All in vitro experiments were conducted with three replicates , and each experiment was performed in triplicate . We found that Src Homology 2B Adaptor Protein 3 ( SH2B3 ) was overexpressed in the cerebral cortex tissues of MCAO treated mice ( P < 01 ) , and BMECs co-cultured with BV-2 cells under OGD conditions ( P < 01 ) . SH2B3 knockdown or Myocyte Enhancer Factor 2 A ( MEF2A ) overexpression reduced infarct size and improved neurological function in MCAO mice . SH2B3 knockdown enhanced OGD-treated cell viability ( P < 05 ) , inhibited cell apoptosis ( P < 05 ) in BMECs , and ameliorated BBB ( P < 01 ) . Moreover , SH2B3 knockdown changed the activation status of microglia . MEF2A promoted the transcriptional activation of WW Domain Containing E3 Ubiquitin Protein Ligase 2 ( WWP2 ) and WWP2 promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of SH2B SH2B3 overexpression reversed the effects of MEF2A overexpression on microglia states , BMECs injury and BBB function . In summary , MEF2A promoted the ubiquitination-mediated degradation of SH2B3 via transcription up-regulating WWP2 , then changed the activation status of microglia , thus ameliorating BMEC injury , and finally ameliorating IS injury .
PURPOSE : There are few reports of renal involvement in Common Variable Immunodeficiencies ( CVID ) and , when present , is due to infections , inflammation , or treatments . The aim of this study was evaluating the prevalence of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) and to identify CVID-related clinical , laboratory and therapeutic features inducing it . METHODS : A multicenter observational retrospective study on 367 adult CVID patients from five Italian Referral Centers for Primary Immunodeficiency . RESULTS : CKD was identified in 23 ( 27% ) patients that were older ( p < 001 ) , had arterial hypertension ( p < 001 ) , diabetes ( p = 002 ) , dyslipidemia ( p = 002 ) , presented different ultrasound abnormalities ( p < 001 ) and received predominantly intravenous immunoglobulins ( IVIG ) ( p = 016 ) . Regarding CVID infectious and non-infectious manifestations , CKD patients presented a higher frequency of COPD ( p = 008 ) . In the CKD group , the median absolute count of total lymphocytes ( p = 015 ) , the percentage of total B ( p = 028 ) and transitional B cells ( p = 008 ) were lower . By binomial logistic regression analysis adjusted for age , CKD patients tend to develop autoimmune cytopenia , had lower B cells percentage , increased Neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio and received more frequently trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole antibiotic prophylaxis . By multivariate analysis , only autoimmune cytopenia was independently associated with CKD . CONCLUSION : The prevalence of CKD in CVID is due to aging , age-related comorbidities , disease-related immune dysregulation and inflammation . Our results suggest evaluating renal function in all CVID patients , and mostly in those with a higher " inflammatory " burden .
Breast cancer is the second most common cancer globally and the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women . Current treatments , such as chemotherapy and surgery , often have side effects and can lead to drug resistance . Developing new treatments that specifically target cancer cells while minimizing side effects is essential . Combining traditional cancer treatments with photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is a promising approach . This study evaluated the effectiveness of femtosecond laser-driven PDT using Doxorubicin ( DOX ) and tetrakis ( 1-methylpyridinium-4-yl ) porphyrin ( TMPyP ) , both individually and in combination , on MDA-MB-231 and T47D breast cancer cells . TMPyP-PDT and DOX monotherapy both exhibited dose-dependent cytotoxicity . However , combination therapy was more effective at lower DOX concentrations , potentially reducing side effects . This combination also increased reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) levels , inhibited angiogenesis by reducing TGF-beta and VEGFA expression , and induced apoptosis by decreasing BCL-2 and increasing BAX levels compared to individual treatments . These findings suggest that combining TMPyP-mediated PDT with Doxorubicin could effectively inhibit breast cancer cell growth .
This study investigated the effects of hypoxic-ischemic ( HI ) injury on neonatal neuroplasticity using the following approaches : Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy ( H-MRS ) imaging to analyze dynamic changes in tau protein levels , immunofluorescence staining to evaluate synaptophysin ( SYP ) , neurocan ( Neu ) , and tau protein , and utilizing transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) to examine synaptic ultrastructure at multiple time points . A total of 59 healthy neonatal pigs were included , with 10 in the control group and 43 in the HI model group . The results demonstrated that SYP immunostaining intensity peaked at 6-12 h after HI before declining . Neu expression exhibited an initial decrease , followed by a transient increase and subsequent reduction , reaching its lowest level at 6-12 h after HI . Tau protein levels increased initially after HI , peaked at 24-48 h after HI , and subsequently decreased . SYP was negatively correlated with Neu with a correlation coefficient of - SYP was not correlated with Tau , neither was Neu with Tau . Compared with the control group , the number of synaptic vesicles decreased , and Post-Synaptic Density ( PSD ) thickness increased 6-12 h after HI . At 12-24 h after HI , the number of synaptic vesicles increased , and PSD thickness slightly decreased . At 24-48 h after HI , the vesicle number decreased , PSD became thinner , interrupting continuity , mitochondria swelled , and mitochondrial cristae blurred and disappeared . The findings suggest that the expression of Tau , SYP , and Neu is linked to alterations in synaptic and myelin structures , reflecting varying aspects of neural plasticity following HI injury .
Parthenocarpic fruit development in prickly pear involves up-regulation of the transcription factor BZR1 and increased levels of brassinolide in developing ovules . We explored the complex process of parthenocarpic fruit development in prickly pear Opuntia ficus-indica ( Cactaceae ) by comparing the fruits of the parthenocarpic Beer Sheva1 ( BS1 ) mutant and revertant non-parthenocarpic fruits . The mutant plants produce flowers with enlarged ovules that develop into degenerated seed-like stony structures . Pollen tubes fail to penetrate the ovule , resulting in the formation of lignified and hard seed coat brown in colour . Some new stems on BS1 plants bear normal revertant flowers containing small and viable fertilized ovules . BS1 thus provides a unique model for elucidating the regulatory mechanisms underlying parthenocarpy in prickly pear . Our working hypothesis was that parthenocarpy is induced by elevated levels of brassinolide in the ovules of BS By comparing transcriptomes , we identified 7717 differentially expressed genes between BS1 and the revertant among them brassinosteroid-related genes . Quantification of the brassinosteroids confirmed higher brassinolide levels and up-regulation of the brassinosteroid positive regulator BRASSINAZOLE RESISTANT1 ( BZR1 ) in BS1 ovules compared to revertant ovules displaying normal seed development . Thereby , implicating the involvement of brassinolide in ovule development , fruit phenology , and parthenocarpy . The early flowering and fruit ripening observed in BS1 support our hypothesis that brassinolide promotes parthenocarpic fruit development and ripening .
PURPOSE : To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized and comparative studies comparing mesenchymal stromal cells other orthobiological injections for patients with knee osteoarthritis . METHODS : Systematic review of Medline , Embase , Scopus , and Google Scholar , including all level 1-3 from 2014 to Validated scores ( VAS , KOOS , Lysholm , IKDC ) were included as outcome measures . Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane Collaboration ' s tools . The GRADE system was used to assess the quality of the body of evidence and the modified Coleman Methodology score was used to assess study quality . Heterogeneity was assessed using chi and I statistics . RESULTS : Ten studies were included ; all published in English between 2019 and 2023 , encompassing a total of 563 cases ( 281 treated with MSCs and 282 with other biologics ) . Two studies had a high risk of bias , one had some bias , and seven had a low risk of bias . Publication bias was detected ( Egger ' s test 26447 ; p = 007 ) . The pooled estimates revealed significant differences favoring MSCs for VAS scores at 3 , 6 , and 12 months . For KOOS pain and symptoms , significant differences were observed at 3 and 6 months . CONCLUSION : The results of this meta-analysis demonstrated a significant effect of adipose and bone marrow-derived stromal cell injections on pain reduction at all assessed time points , and showed superiority over other non-surgical treatment options . These differences were not reflected in clinical and functional outcomes , indicating that the observed reduction in pain did not correspond to substantial improvements in knee functionality .
The advent of nanotechnology has significantly advanced the diagnosis and treatment of oral cancer , offering more precise and efficient therapeutic strategies . This review presents a comprehensive overview of recent developments in the application of nanotechnology to oral cancer management . It begins with an overview of the epidemiology of oral cancer and outlines current diagnostic and therapeutic methods . The classification and advantages of various nanomaterials are then introduced . The paper thoroughly explores the use of nanomaterials as drug delivery systems ( DDSs ) , imaging contrast agents , and therapeutic tools , with particular emphasis on multifunctional nanoplatforms that integrate diagnostics and therapy . These platforms enable real-time monitoring and immediate therapeutic response , offering innovative approaches for early detection and intervention . Despite these promising advances , several challenges persist , including issues related to biocompatibility , clearance , targeting specificity , and clinical translation . The review concludes by highlighting current limitations and proposing future directions for the clinical application of nanotechnology in oral cancer treatment .
Sporadic Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) involves specific neuronal types and progresses in a systematic manner , permitting subdivision into six neuropathological stages . Neurofibrillary tangle ( NFT ) stages I-III display abnormal tau inclusions confined to subcortical nuclei and temporal allocortical regions , frequently without amyloid beta ( Abeta ) deposition . We previously suggested a sequence of neuronal involvement in AD that could proceed from entorhinal pre-alpha cells to hippocampal prosubicular pyramidal cells and the CA1/CA2 sectors , from there to the thorny excrescences on mossy cells in CA3/CA4 , and , finally , from the mossy cells to dentate fascia ( Fd ) granular cells . Here , we aimed to see if associations existed between the early NFT stages I-III , when Abeta deposits are frequently absent , and the following four categories : anatomical regions and abnormal morphological tau changes in region-specific layers , nerve cell loss , APOE genotype , and the trajectory ( directionality ) of tau progression in the hippocampal formation . To do so , we examined the transentorhinal/entorhinal regions and hippocampal formation using AT8-immunohistochemistry in 100 microm sections from N = 308 brains with tau inclusions lacking Abeta deposits between NFT stages I and III ( average age at death 7 years for females , 4 years for males ) . Our results indicated a significantly ( p < 001 ) ordered progression of abnormal tau in a direction opposite to currently known unidirectional intrahippocampal connections , thereby indirectly supporting the idea of transneuronal abnormal tau spreading , i . e . , anterogradely , through the hippocampal formation . Tau-related neuronal loss was also significant ( p < 001 for the transentorhinal/entorhinal regions and for sectors CA1/CA2 and p = 003 for CA3/CA4/Fd ) . These findings challenge the amyloid cascade and the PART hypotheses , corroborating the concept that early AD-related tau inclusions and tau-related neuronal loss occur independently of Abeta deposition .
PURPOSE : The aim of this study was to explore how sulforaphane ( SFN ) , a well-known nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) pathway activator , regulates hepatic autophagy and apoptosis by modulating the polarization of Kupffer cells via the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway in a hemorrhagic shock/resuscitation ( HS/R ) model in mice . METHODS : Male c57/BL6 mice were subjected to hemorrhagic shock ( HS ) for 90 min under blood pressure control . Resuscitation was performed by reinfusing the withdrawn blood and infusing 9% NaCl , and SFN was administered intraperitoneally . All animals were euthanized 24 h after resuscitation , and liver tissue samples were collected for TUNEL staining , western blot analysis , immunohistochemical staining , immunofluorescence staining , and observation using transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) . Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging ( MALDI-MSI ) was performed to verify the SFN distribution in the liver . RESULTS : SFN reached the liver within the first hour after it was injected . SFN was found to promote the hepatic Nrf2/HO-1 pathway and the polarization of Kupffer cells to the M2 phenotype rather than the M1 phenotype after HS/R . Furthermore , SFN inhibited hepatic apoptosis after HS/R , as demonstrated by a decrease in the Bax/Bcl-2 ratio , fewer TUNEL-positive cells , and changes in cleaved caspase 3 expression . Enhanced hepatic autophagy was observed after HS/R , as shown by an increase in the number of autophagosomes , a higher LC3-II/LC3-I ratio , and decreased expression of p62 and beclin- CONCLUSIONS : In this study , SFN administration inhibited hepatic apoptosis and promoted hepatic autophagy by inducing Kupffer cells to polarize to the M2 phenotype rather than the M1 phenotype via the Nrf2/HO-1 pathway .
Conservative treatment of the anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL ) is important for restoring functional activity and preventing secondary degeneration . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying ligament immobilization and its precise role in the healing process remain poorly understood . In this study , we investigated the effect of immobilization on the strength of the healed ACL during acute management . We performed surgery to heal the ACL of rats and immobilized the knees using Kirschner wires . The group in which only the surgery to promote ACL healing was performed was designated as the controlled anterior tibial instability group , whereas the group that underwent both surgery and immobilization was designated as the immobilization ( IMM ) group . After 1-2 weeks of immobilization , histological analyses using hematoxylin-eosin staining and immunohistochemical evaluation of collagen types I and III expression were performed . A comprehensive genetic analysis in the acute phase was performed via RNA sequencing . Furthermore , fibroblasts derived from rat ACL were used to recapitulate inflammation with interleukin-1beta , and its effect on elongation stress ( 110% ) was investigated using polymerase chain reaction . Joint immobilization for 2 weeks postoperatively increased the mechanical strength of the conservatively connected ligaments . Stretch stimulation of fibroblasts with interleukin-1beta also decreased the expression of the extracellular matrix . Furthermore , bioinformatics analyses identified differentially expressed genes associated with the healing process in fixed versus unfixed ligaments . The results demonstrate that acute-phase immobilization , defined as fixation for 2 weeks following injury , enhances ligament strength by promoting extracellular matrix synthesis and organized regeneration , providing novel insights into optimizing conservative ACL therapy .
Hepatic fibrosis , a precursor to cirrhosis , arises from complex mechanisms , including hepatic stellate cell ( HSC ) activation , inflammatory cytokine release , and excessive extracellular matrix ( ECM ) deposition . Despite the significant clinical burden , there are currently no FDA-approved treatments available . This study aimed to evaluate the potential anti-fibrotic effects of paroxetine-an FDA-approved selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( SSRI ) commonly prescribed for anxiety-related disorders-by examining its influence on profibrotic gene expression and inflammatory mediators , with particular focus on the P2X4 receptor . Paroxetine ( 5 , 10 mg/kg ) was administered in a rat model of BDL-induced hepatic fibrosis . Liver pathology was assessed through histological analysis and measurement of serum transaminase levels . Expression levels of profibrotic markers-transforming growth factor-beta 1 ( TGF-beta1 ) , alpha-smooth muscle actin ( alpha-SMA ) , and collagen type I alpha 1 ( COL1A1 ) -and inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , and the expression of P2X4 , a key purinergic receptor implicated in fibrosis , were quantified using real-time PCR . Paroxetine treatment ( 10 mg/kg ) significantly ameliorated liver pathology , reducing serum transaminase levels and hepatic expression of TGF-beta1 , alpha-SMA , and COL1A It markedly suppressed hepatic TNF-alpha and IL-6 , indicating reduced inflammation . The most significant finding was that paroxetine significantly inhibited the upregulated levels of P2X4 in the BDL group , highlighting a critical pathway modulated by the drug . Paroxetine holds promise as a therapeutic candidate for hepatic fibrosis . Its ability to reduce profibrotic and inflammatory responses , alongside P2X4 inhibition , warrants further investigation into its clinical potential for managing liver fibrosis and cirrhosis .
BACKGROUND : Gastric cancer ( GC ) , a common and deadly malignancy worldwide , is a serious burden on society and individuals . However , available diagnostic biomarkers for GC are very limited . The current study aimed to identify potential diagnostic biomarkers for GC and analyze the activity of infiltrating immune cells in this pathology . METHODS : Microarray data for GC were acquired from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database . The limma package was utilized to normalize these data , thus identifying differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) . For normalized data of samples , we established a weighted gene co-expression network ( WGCNA ) to reveal key genes in the significant module . Afterward , we obtained overlapping genes by intersecting the DEGs and the key genes from the WGCNA module . Next , after applying the three algorithms ( LASSO , RandomForest , and SVM-RFE ) to analyze these overlapping genes and take the intersection , we established a GC diagnosis . The diagnostic significances of these identified genes were evaluated with receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves and validated in the external dataset . Furthermore , ssGSEA and CIBERSORT were employed for evaluating the infiltrating immune cells and the association of the immune cells and diagnostic biomarkers . RESULTS : Herein , we identified 49 overlapping genes , and the results of enrichment analysis demonstrated that these genes may be involved in the signaling transduction-related process . Finally , BANF1 , DUSP14 , and VMP1 were regarded as key biomarkers in GC patients based on the overlapping genes that we found , and these three biomarkers demonstrated great diagnostic significance . Additionally , the hub biomarkers had different levels of association with macrophages , neutrophils , memory B cells , and plasma cells . CONCLUSIONS : BANF1 , DUSP14 , and VMP1 are promising diagnostic biomarkers for GC , and infiltrating immune cells may dramatically affect gastric carcinogenesis and progression .
PURPOSE : Time-lapse MRI allows for the dynamic tracking of single iron-labeled cells . However , the time required for spatial encoding creates a temporal blur and , therefore , a limited ability to resolve moving cells . To study fast moving cells , such as rolling immune cells along the endothelium during inflammatory processes , advanced accelerated acquisition techniques are required . METHODS : Balanced SSFP ( bSSFP ) imaging is applied to phantom and in vivo murine brain time-lapse MRI measurements at 4 T . Its detection capability of moving iron-labeled cells is compared with conventional gradient echo imaging ( GRE ) for 2D Cartesian sampling and evaluated for fully sampled and accelerated reconstructions with compressed sensing for 3D interleaved radial sampling in bSSFP . RESULTS : Both phantom and in vivo time-lapse MRI measurements show that single cells can be followed dynamically using bSSFP . High temporal resolution of less than 2 min reduces geometric distortion . The velocity detection limit increases to 8 mm/min in vitro and previously hidden fast-moving cells are recovered . Interleaved 3D radial sampling enables 3D cell tracking and simultaneous imaging at varying acceleration factors . Fivefold acceleration with compressed sensing optimizes cell visibility , image quality , and temporal resolution . CONCLUSION : bSSFP time-lapse MRI improves single-cell tracking by enhancing temporal resolution . In vitro , the velocity detection limit is increased fourfold compared to conventional GRE . Interleaved 3D radial bSSFP offers whole-brain coverage at isotropic spatial resolution and retrospective reconstruction of both fully sampled and high temporal resolution images .
Glioblastoma multiforme , one of the most malignant types of brain tumor , heavily relies on glycolytic pathways and is significantly influenced by immune infiltration and its surrounding microenvironment . Growing evidence implies that increase in glycolysis can lead to lactate accumulation , which further contributed to histone lactylation , playing a crucial role in tumor development , maintenance , and therapeutic response . This study explores the prognostic and therapeutic potential of lactylation-related genes in glioblastoma multiforme . Using single-cell ( GSE162631 ) and bulk transcriptome datasets ( TCGA , CGGA , and GSE16011 ) , we identified lactylation-related genes through ssGSEA and WGCNA . Moreover , a machine learning framework , incorporating 10 algorithms and 101 combinations , was used to establish an eight-gene lactylation-related signature ( POLDIP3 , MMP14 , MDK , KDELR2 , GSTK1 , DEDD2 , CD151 , and BRI3 ) with robust predictive accuracy for patient survival . A nomogram with lactylation-related signature integration was developed as a quantitative prognostic instrument for clinical use . Moreover , patients classified by lactylation-related signature risk scores showed distinct immune status , tumor mutation burden , immunotherapy response , and drug sensitivity . The expression of those lactylation-related genes was further validated by quantitative PCR and functional experiment in normal and GBM cell lines . Overall , this study establishes a lactylation-related signature with significant potential for glioblastoma multiforme prognostic prediction , targeted prevention , and individualized therapy .
Endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress activation triggers programmed cell death through coordinated autophagy and apoptosis pathways . Although Gasdermin E ( GSDME ) is established as a pyroptosis executor and tumor suppressor , its regulatory role in ER stress-mediated autophagy remains unknown . In this study , we identify GSDME as a critical modulator of autophagic flux during ER stress-induced cell death . Using the novel GRP78 inhibitor YUM70 , we demonstrate potent antitumor activity in cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) and hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) models through ER stress-mediated autophagy , characterized by elevated LC3-II/I ratios and caspase-3/PARP activation . Paradoxically , YUM70 treatment induced dose-dependent GSDME downregulation across hepatobiliary cancer cells . Genetic ablation of GSDME significantly attenuated YUM70-induced autophagic death via reactivation of the mTOR/S6K1 signaling axis . Mechanistically , GSDME maintains autophagic flux by suppressing mTOR-mediated lysosomal biogenesis during ER stress . These findings unveil a non-canonical function of GSDME as an autophagy rheostat and provide mechanistic insights into chemotherapy resistance in GRP78-targeted therapies . Our work establishes GSDME expression status as a predictive biomarker and therapeutic target for hepatobiliary malignancies undergoing ER stress modulation .
Outer retinal function depends on two supporting tissues : the retinal pigment epithelium ( RPE ) and the choroid . Limited molecular information is available on the intercellular networks that sustain RPE/choroid tissue in both healthy and pathological states . Galectin-1 ( Gal1 ) , a beta-galactoside-binding lectin , has recently emerged as a key regulator of angiogenesis and a potential therapeutic target in vascular pathologies , including age-related macular degeneration . Here , we studied the expression of Gal1 in the outer retina and its regulatory role in the RPE/choroid under physiological and pathological conditions . Our findings indicate that Gal1 is predominantly associated with stromal cells in the RPE/choroid . In Gal1-deficient ( Lgals1 ( -/- ) ) mice , the RPE/choroid ultrastructure and gene expression profiles were altered , and choroidal explants exhibited reduced sprouting compared to those of wild-type mice . Consistently , recombinant Gal1 promoted choroidal sprouting under hypoxic conditions , and stromal-like cells modulated pro-angiogenic and antiangiogenic gene expression in vitro under pathological conditions . Interestingly , Gal1 was also expressed by the RPE , with apical secretion under normoxia that shifted toward a basolateral phenotype under hypoxia . These findings identify stromal-like cells and RPE as key sources of Gal1 in the choroid , highlighting its distinct roles in maintaining RPE/choroid homeostasis in healthy or pathological microenvironments .
This research investigated the protective properties of Carvacrol ( CVC ) against Isoproterenol ( ISO ) -induced oxidative stress , neuroinflammation , and mitochondrial dysfunction in rats . The findings showed that CVC treatment did not significantly modify baseline oxidative stress levels in healthy rats but successfully alleviated ISO-induced oxidative damage by augmenting antioxidant enzyme activity and diminishing lipid peroxidation , as demonstrated by a reduction in MDA levels . These findings indicate that CVC can reinstate antioxidant capability and reduce oxidative damage . Concerning neuroinflammation , ISO therapy markedly increased the expression of pro-inflammatory markers , including TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , c-Fos , BDNF , Nfl , and GFP , signifying a robust inflammatory and damage response . The injection of CVC following ISO exposure markedly decreased the expression of these markers , suggesting that CVC may exert a neuroprotective effect by regulating the inflammatory response and mitigating neuronal and glial damage . CVC demonstrated a notable protective effect on mitochondrial integrity , evidenced by the decreased mRNA expression of mitochondrial damage markers , including NSE , s100B , CALP1 , and CALM1 in the CVC-treated groups , showing that CVC mitigates mitochondrial dysfunction . The analysis revealed no significant alterations in the expression levels of Abeta40 , pTau181 , and tTau across all groups , indicating that these biomarkers were not substantially influenced by CVC treatment under the study ' s conditions . However , beta-amyloid accumulation varied significantly between groups , highlighting the need for further research to explore CVC ' s potential implications in amyloid-related diseases . These findings endorse CVC ' s neuroprotective efficacy and therapeutic potential in neurological disorders associated with oxidative stress , inflammation , and mitochondrial impairment .
Plant peptides play crucial roles in various biological processes , including stress responses . This study investigates the functions of plant peptides in response to different adversity stresses , focusing on drought , salt , high temperature , and other environmental challenges . In drought conditions , specific peptides such as CLE25 and CLE9 were found to regulate stomatal closure and root architecture to enhance the efficiency of water utilization . Salt stress induces the expression of CAPE1 and CEP3 , which are involved in ion homeostasis and osmoregulation , thereby contributing to salt tolerance in plants . Heat stress triggers the expression of peptides such as CEL45 , which contributes to the heat tolerance of cells . Besides , we have also verified a new class of non-conventional peptides , and a large number of non-conventional peptides have been identified in rice seedlings . Understanding the origin and functions of these peptides presents both challenges and opportunities for developing stress-resistant crops . Future research should focus on elucidating the precise molecular mechanisms of peptide-mediated stress responses and exploring their potential applications in agriculture and biotechnology .
Vascular repair and regeneration are critical for tissue homeostasis . Endothelial colony forming cells ( ECFCs ) are vessel-resident progenitors with vasoreparative capacity and they offer an important avenue for allogeneic cytotherapy to achieve perfusion of ischemic tissues . Endothelial Protein C Receptor ( EPCR ) has been proposed as a marker for vascular endothelial stem cells , but its precise role in ECFC biology remains unknown . The current study has investigated the biological relevance of EPCR in ECFC function . Our data show that over 95% of ECFCs exhibit high EPCR expression . These levels surpassing CD34 and CD157 , positions EPCR as a new robust ECFC immunophenotypic marker , alongside established markers CD31 and CD Functionally , depleting EPCR expression in ECFCs significantly diminished angiogenic activity , including proliferation , migration and tube formation . This knockdown also altered normal ECFC barrier function . Transcriptomic analysis indicated that knockdown of EPCR led to enrichment of gene signatures for cell cycle , TGF beta , and focal adhesion kinases . G1 cell cycle arrest was confirmed in ECFCs with depleted EPCR . Mechanistically , EPCR knockdown led to increased release of TGFbeta2 and SMAD2/3 activation , coupled with increased p21 , decreased pFAK , and increased transgelin . Additionally , we showed that quiescent ECFCs showed significantly lower EPCR expression when compared to proliferating ECFCs . In agreement with this , cell sorting experiments demonstrated that ECFCs with the highest EPCR expression exhibited the highest clonogenic capacity . In summary , our findings highlight that EPCR expression in ECFCs is critical for their angiogenic activity , by modulating cell cycle progression .
INTRODUCTION : Chronic graft-versus-host disease ( cGVHD ) is the most common cause of late non-relapse mortality after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation ( allo-HCT ) . Rho-associated coiled-coiled kinases ( ROCK ) inhibitors have shown to balance the pro-inflammatory and regulatory T-cell subsets in addition to reducing fibrosis in cGVHD , resulting in the development of multiple ROCK2 inhibitors including belumosudil . AREAS COVERED : We describe the pathophysiology of cGVHD and the role of ROCK2 in cGVHD . This includes a review of the current and ongoing clinical data with belumosudil , and an overview of current ROCK2 inhibitors in development for cGVHD including rovadicitinib , zelasudil and GV- EXPERT OPINION : Many of the recent novel agents with unique mechanisms such as ROCK2 inhibitors ( i . e . belumosudil ) provide high response rates but rarely yield complete responses in cGVHD . The future of management of cGVHD will rely on investigating combination therapy upfront that may achieve deeper complete responses , developing newer preventative therapies , and advancements in biomarker detection/risk stratification for cGVHD . FAU - Ngo , Dat
BACKGROUND : Cancer cells employ various adaptive mechanisms to withstand stressors , with one notable pathway being the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) , crucial in fostering endocrine resistance within ER-positive breast cancer . Investigating miRNAs within tumors holds promise for identifying key miRNA-gene interactions pivotal for tumor characteristics like proliferation and resistance to treatment . Notably , XBP1 emerges as a pivotal player in UPR within the endoplasmic reticulum , particularly through the inositol-requiring enzyme 1 ( IRE1alpha ) - the X-box-binding protein 1 ( XBP1 ) pathway , presenting a compelling target for clinical intervention . In this study , I explore the regulatory role of miR-770-5p in modulating XBP1 expression and its potential as a therapeutic target in luminal breast cancer . METHODS AND RESULTS : The role of XBP1 in cancer cell pathogenesis has been investigated using bioinformatics tools to analyze its expression in breast cancer samples and its association with clinical outcomes . The relationship between miR-770-5p and XBP1 was further explored through bioinformatics analysis and ROC plot assessment . qRT-PCR and bioinformatics data confirmed the negative correlation between miR-770-5p and XBP1 , particularly in Luminal A subtype with wild-type p My results demonstrated that miR-770-5p targets XBP1 , inhibiting its spliced form and reducing its downstream transcriptional activity . Moreover , I found that miR-770-5p can modulate tamoxifen sensitivity by influencing the XBP1/ESR1 axis in breast cancer cells . Overexpression of miR-770-5p led to decreased ESR1 levels , enhancing tamoxifen efficacy and suggesting a potential novel therapeutic approach for luminal subtype breast cancer . CONCLUSIONS : miR-770-5p has a growth-inhibitory function in luminal breast cancer , where its suppression of XBP1 contributes to the increased sensitivity to tamoxifen .
BACKGROUND : FGM is an issue of increasing concern also in countries where it is not traditionally practiced . Vulvar scarring is the most common long-term effect associated with FGM , representing one of the main unmet issues in FGM women ' s health . Regenerative therapies based on the use of adipose-derived stem cells are considered the standard of care for ameliorating scarring and fibrosis . This study aimed to explore the potential of fat grafting in the treatment of post-FGM vulvar scars . METHODS : Thirteen FGM survivors with vulvar scars underwent autologous fat grafting and were assessed using the Vulvar architecture severity scale ( VASS ) , Female genital self-image scale ( FGSIS ) , Female sexual function index ( FSFI ) , and Hospital anxiety and depression scale ( HADS ) . RESULTS : At an average follow-up of 23 months ( +/- 03 ) , clinical results ( VASS ) showed a significant improvement in all vulvar aesthetic units treated with FG ( p < 001 ) . Patients reported improvements in genital-related self-image ( FGSIS ) ( p = 001 ) , sexual function ( FSFI ) ( p = 019 ) , and psychological well-being ( HADS ) ( p = 002 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Fat grafting ameliorates FGM-related vulvar scars and improves volumetric contouring of vulvar aesthetic units , with a positive effect on women ' s quality of life . This minimally invasive intervention has far-reaching implications , providing a cost-effective solution accessible even in low-resource settings to potentially improve the overall well-being of millions of women living worldwide with a form of FGM . The results of this study warrant further testing in future clinical trials . LEVEL OF EVIDENCE IV : This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article . For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings , please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www . springer . com/00266 .
Severe Fever with Thrombocytopenia Syndrome Bunyavirus ( SFTSV ) is a highly lethal pathogen with expanding endemic regions in Asia . While primarily transmitted by ticks , recent evidence suggests potential airborne transmission , raising significant public health concerns . This study investigates the potential for respiratory transmission and pathogenesis using humanized NCG mice inoculated with SFTSV via subcutaneous injection challenge ( SIC ) or intranasal drop challenge ( IDC ) . Both groups demonstrated rapid systemic dissemination , marked by viremia , weight loss , and multi-organ injury , with hemorrhagic manifestations observed in high-dose infection groups . Histopathological evaluations revealed lung pathology in the intranasal drop challenge mice , including extensive alveolar disruption and inflammatory cell infiltration . Transcriptomic analyses further confirmed that respiratory route inoculation resulted in heightened expression of inflammatory signaling pathways such as IL-17 and NF-kappaB , potentially contributing to severe local immunopathology . Subcutaneous infection provoked an earlier systemic immune response , with significant upregulation of antigen-processing genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells . Nevertheless , both routes ultimately culminated in widespread injury to the liver , spleen , kidney , highlighting the systemic nature of SFTSV pathogenesis . These findings underscore the need for preventive strategies addressing respiratory spread . FAU - Lu , Dafeng
BACKGROUND : Retroperitoneal liposarcoma ( RPLS ) is a critical malignant disease with various clinical outcomes . However , the molecular heterogeneity of RPLS was poorly elucidated , and few biomarkers were proposed to monitor its progression . METHODS : RNA sequencing was performed on a training cohort of 88 RPLS patients to identify dysregulated genes and pathways using clusterProfiler . The GSVA algorithm was utilized to assess signaling pathway levels in each sample , and unsupervised clustering was employed to distinguish RPLS subtypes . Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) between RPLS subtypes were identified to construct a simplified dichotomous clustering via nonnegative matrix factorization . The feasibility of this classification was validated in a separate validation cohort ( n=241 ) using immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) from the REtroperitoneal SArcoma Registry ( RESAR ) . The study is registered with https : //clinicaltrials . gov/ under number NCT RESULTS : Cell cycle , DNA damage and repair , and metabolism were identified as the most aberrant biological processes in RPLS , enabling the division of RPLS patients into two distinct subtypes with unique molecular signatures , tumor microenvironment , clinical features , and outcomes ( overall survival [OS] and disease-free survival [DFS] ) . A simplified RPLS classification based on representative biomarkers ( LEP and PTTG1 ) demonstrated high accuracy ( area under the curve [AUC]>99 ) , with patients classified as LEP+ and PTTG1- , showing lower aggressive pathological composition ratio and fewer surgery times , along with better OS ( HR = 41 , p<001 ) and DFS ( HR = 60 , p=005 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our study provided an ever-largest gene expression landscape of RPLS and established an IHC-based molecular classification that was clinically relevant and cost-effective for guiding treatment decisions . FUNDING : This work was supported by grants from the Beijing Municipal Science and Technology Project ( Z191100006619081 ) , National Natural Science Foundation of China , and Young Elite Scientists Sponsorship Program ( 2023QNRC001 ) . The study sponsors had no role in the design and preparation of this manuscript . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : NCT
Lysocardiolipin acyltransferase 1 ( LCLAT1 ) is a lipid acyltransferase that plays an important role in mitochondrial function maintenance and lipid metabolism . Nevertheless , there is scarce research regarding its involvement in tumors . This study sought to investigate the potential role of LCLAT1 in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . We obtained HCC expression profile data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases ; verified LCLAT1 expression in HCC by qRT-PCR , Western blotting , and immunohistochemical ( IHC ) staining ; and analyzed the potential pathogenic mechanisms of LCLAT1 in HCC bioinformatically . The associations of the LCLAT1 expression level with HCC patient prognosis , immune escape , and treatment response were also explored using bioinformatics tools and IHC staining . LCLAT1 was significantly overexpressed in HCC cell lines and tissues , and its expression level was positively correlated with histologic grade , tumor status , fibrotic Ishak score , and poor patient prognosis in HCC patients . Gene set enrichment analysis suggested that patients with high LCLAT1 had significant enrichment for methylation- , immune- , and cell proliferation-related pathways . The prognosis of HCC was found to be linked to the DNA methylation status of the five CpG islands within the LCLAT1 gene . Immune infiltration and single-cell level analyses showed that LCLAT1 was closely associated with the tumor microenvironment . Moreover , high LCLAT1 expression may promote immune evasion in HCC , and the abundance of several immune cells correlated with HCC prognosis . Finally , HCC patients with low LCLAT1 responded better to treatment with transarterial chemoembolization , sorafenib , and immune checkpoint inhibitors . LCLAT1 might serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and as a multipathway target involved in the malignant progression of HCC . Importantly , LCLAT1 was related to immune infiltration and could aid in predicting treatment response in HCC .
Selenium ( Se ) is a highly biologically active element , and its organic derivatives have attracted growing interest for their promising chemotherapeutic potential , largely due to their redox-modulating activity , which selectively affects cancer cells with high levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . However , their high reactivity and susceptibility to spontaneous degradation limit their biomedical application . To harness their potential in the realm of nanomedicine , we present a new generation of therapeutically promising polymers that combine Se with 2 , 2-bis ( methylol ) propionic acid ( bis-MPA ) -based dendritic polymers , chosen for their high chemical versatility , low toxicity , and excellent biodegradability . Most examples in the literature about dendritic polymers feature dormant dendritic skeletons with active functional groups expressed only on their periphery , which severely limits their functional scope . In this work , monodisperse dendrimers and linear-dendritic ( LD ) polymers up to the third generation were developed , with the latter capable of self-assembling into dendritic micelles ( approximately 20 nm ) . These systems feature Se at the dendritic core or peripheral branches in the form of monoselenide or diselenide bridges . Selenium incorporation demonstrated excellent compatibility with two key polyester synthetic approaches : anhydride chemistry and fluoride-promoted esterification ( FPE ) . Both monoselenide and diselenide linkages introduced degradability and dynamic behavior in dendrimers and dendritic micelles . However , their biological activities differed significantly . Diselenide-containing dendrimers exhibited great anticancer potential against breast cancer cell lines , with IC values in the micromolar range . Among these , first-generation Se dendrimers stood out due to their promising selectivity toward cancer cells . In contrast , dendritic polymers incorporating monoselenides retained the high biocompatibility characteristics of bis-MPA dendritic constructs . FAU - Sanz Del Olmo , Natalia
BACKGROUND : Human leukocyte antigen ( HLA ) sensitization is a significant barrier to transplantation for many patients . Daratumumab has proven safety and tolerability in multiple myeloma . We hypothesized that daratumumab monotherapy could be an effective and safe desensitization strategy in highly sensitized patients awaiting cardiac transplantation . OBJECTIVES : The primary end-point of this trial was the scope of daratumumab in lowering HLA antibodies . Secondary end-points included presence of donor-specific antibody , incidence of cellular and antibody-mediated rejection ( AMR ) and cardiac allograft function . METHODS : Six consecutive highly sensitized patients were enrolled who had a calculated panel reactive antibody >50% using a mean fluorescence intensity ( MFI ) threshold >4 , 000 through a single antigen bead assay . Three completed the full 8 weeks of daratumumab therapy . HLA antibodies with MFI >10 , 000 were considered unacceptable for donor offers . All patients received weekly doses of 1 , 800 mg daratumumab and 30 , 000 units hyaluronidase subcutaneously for a planned total of 8 weeks . RESULTS : There was a significant reduction in HLA class I and class II antibodies by the time of heart transplantation . Daratumumab was well tolerated and without any serious adverse events . By the time of this publication , 5 of the total of 6 patients enrolled have been successfully transplanted . None of the patients enrolled experienced AMR and maintain normal cardiac allograft function . CONCLUSIONS : Daratumumab monotherapy may be a safe and effective desensitization strategy in highly sensitized patients who are otherwise eligible for heart transplantation and considered too ill for other desensitization strategies .
Oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) is an aggressive cancer with a poor prognosis . Oral epithelial dysplasia ( OED ) is a precancerous lesion associated with an increased risk of malignant transformation ( MT ) into OSCC . However , current histopathological methods for diagnosing OED are subjective and ineffective in assessing MT risk . FTIR provides a comprehensive biochemical profile of tissues , known as " biomolecular fingerprinting " . Previously we developed an FTIR-based OSCC-Benign classifier that accurately distinguishes OSCC from benign tissue . In this study , we evaluated whether this classifier could also predict MT risk in OED . Thirty OED patient biopsies with documented MT outcomes were analyzed , including 12 with and 18 without MT . FTIR images were acquired from six regions of interest ( ROIs ) per tissue section , yielding an average epithelial spectrum for each ROI , and a total of 180 spectra for model evaluation . The OSCC-Benign classifier achieved an accuracy of 7% with an F1 score of 77 at the ROI level , and an accuracy of 3% with an F1 score of 8 at the biopsy level in predicting MT in OED . Our findings suggest that OEDs with biomolecular fingerprints similar to OSCC carry a higher risk of MT , while those resembling benign tissue carry a lower risk , providing new insight into the malignant transformation process . In summary , the FTIR-based machine learning approach outperforms traditional histopathology in predicting MT risk in OED , potentially offering a quantitative and objective tool for clinical diagnosis . FAU - Wang , Rong
Metal-nitrogen-carbon ( M-N-C , M = Mn , Fe , Co , Ni , Cu , Zn , and Pt ) dual-atom catalysts ( DACs ) show great potential for the oxygen reduction reaction ( ORR ) at the cathode of proton exchange membrane fuel cells ( PEMFCs ) . During catalytic reactions , multiple reactants and intermediates interact with the active sites , yet understanding their dynamic structural evolution under the operating conditions remains challenging . In this study , we analyze 186 heteronuclear FeM-N-C DACs using ab initio thermodynamic phase diagrams and find that OH-ligated structures become predominant at higher applied potentials . This indicates that catalytic activity is governed by electrochemically modified metal sites rather than by the bare structures . We further investigate the catalytic mechanism of these ligated structures and reveal that the ORR limiting potential can be efficiently predicted from the phase diagrams . Among the 186 DACs studied , 29 were found to outperform Pt-based catalysts , with FeCo-N-C DACs demonstrating the highest activity . Our computational predictions align well with experimental observations , highlighting the crucial role of dynamic structural changes under reaction conditions in enhancing the electrocatalytic performance of DACs . FAU - Brea , Courtney
Fibrosis is a dysregulated wound healing response characterized by excessive accumulation of dense scar tissue that inhibits organ function and is estimated to contribute to up to 45% of deaths in the industrialized world . In this work , we sought to uncover new ways to address fibrosis by drawing inspiration from an animal that does not develop fibrosis . The Spiny Mouse ( Acomys ) has the most extensive regenerative capabilities of any known mammal and can regenerate injuries to the skin , kidney , heart , skeletal muscle , and spine with little to no fibrosis . We hypothesize that the regenerative abilities of Acomys are due , in part , to altered stiffness-mediated fibroblast-to-myofibroblast transition ( FMT ) . In this work , we interrogated stiffness-mediated FMT in Acomys and Mus dermal fibroblasts in vitro by performing RNA Sequencing and found no differential gene expression in Acomys fibroblasts cultured on soft vs stiff substrates . We further investigated the direct impact of stiffness-mediated FMT and species differences on ECM deposition by fabricating cell-derived matrices ( CDMs ) from Acomys and Mus fibroblasts cultured on varying stiffnesses . After assessing the composition of these CDMs using label-free quantitative proteomics , fibrosis-associated extracellular matrix proteins including fibrillin-1 , ADAMTS1 , SPARC , and galectin-1 were found to be significantly reduced or absent in Acomys CDMs compared to Mus CDMs . In addition , proteins that have been connected to fibrosis resolution , including Col12a1 and clusterin , were upregulated in Acomys CDMs . When cultured on Acomys CDMs , mouse macrophages downregulated MMP9 mRNA expression and maintained increased expression of iNOS in response to IL-4 , a pro-fibrotic cytokine . These results indicate a direct impact of species-specific ECM compositions on macrophage phenotype and suggest that ECM produced by Acomys fibroblasts may impede the development of a pro-fibrotic macrophage phenotype in the presence of pro-fibrotic stimuli . FAU - Dill , Michele N
Numerous properties of organic/metal interfaces strongly depend on their polymorphism . To computationally predict the thermodynamically most stable polymorph at finite temperature and pressure , the state-of-the-art method is ab initio thermodynamics . However , several approximations made within ab initio thermodynamics have been developed with small adsorbates in mind , which are comparable in size to a substrate unit cell and have no or only few internal degrees of freedom , and it is unclear how well these approximations translate to larger , more complex organic adsorbates . In this work , we study this question exemplarily for the model system of tetracyanoethylene on Cu , which shows a Blyholder-like charge transfer that in amount and shape depends sensitively on the structure of the organic adsorbate . In particular , we investigate how the phase boundaries between different stable polymorphs are affected by the ( temperature-dependent ) vibrational and entropy terms . Based on these investigations , we find that , while the configurational entropy is de facto negligible for organics , the vibrational free energy can shift phase boundaries by several tens of kelvins . Moreover , we discuss how the vibrational free energy can be approximated and why said approximations work well for organic/metal interfaces .
PURPOSE : The mechanisms driving the progression of vocal cord leukoplakia ( VCL ) to laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) remain unclear , posing a significant barrier to the effective prevention , early diagnosis , and targeted treatment of LSCC . Therefore , it is essential to characterize the cellular microenvironmental differences between VCL and LSCC at the single-cell resolution . EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN : In the study , we conducted single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics on surgical tissue specimens obtained from 36 patients diagnosed with vocal cord polyps ( VCP ) , VCL and LSCC . RESULTS : Our study generated the first single-cell atlas of VCP and VCL , while expanding the cancer cell atlas of LSCC . This dataset comprises 318 , 907 cells and 12 , 679 spatial transcriptomic spots , allowing the identification of distinct cellular subclusters . We observed that VCL , as a transitional lesion between benign and malignant states , exhibits a hybrid microenvironment that mirrors VCP and LSCC , with early signs of immunosuppressive activity . Immunoregulatory cell populations demonstrate significant gene expression and functional pathway differences between VCL and LSCC . CONCLUSIONS : Our scRNA-seq and spatial transcriptomics analyses revealed the cellular heterogeneity underlying benign , precancerous , and malignant laryngeal lesions . We identified epithelial subclusters in VCL with malignant potential and observed shared immunosuppressive features with LSCC , suggesting their role in disease progression . These findings provide valuable insights into the molecular transition from VCL to LSCC and emphasize potential targets for early diagnosis and therapeutic intervention . FAU - Fu , Zi-Ming
PURPOSE : BR-PDAC is treated with perioperative chemotherapy and surgical resection +/- SBRT , but long-term survival is rare . GVAX is a GM-CSF- secreting vaccine that activates T-cell immunity against tumor-associated antigens . This multi- center phase II clinical trial evaluated the safety and immune effects of GVAX/Cy/nivolumab and SBRT on the PDAC TME . METHODS : Patients received neoadjuvant mFOLFIRINOX or gemcitabine/nab-paclitaxel if intolerant to mFOLFIRINOX followed by combination immunotherapy and SBRT before surgical resection . The primary endpoint was CD8+ T-cell density in surgical specimens compared with in historical controls treated with neoadjuvant mFOLFIRINOX and SBRT . Pathologic response rate , overall survival , and exploratory immune evaluation of the TME is also reported . RESULTS : 31 patients were enrolled from January 2018 to July 18 patients received at least one dose of combined immunotherapy . Fourteen patients underwent definitive surgical resection and one complete pathologic complete response was observed . At a median follow-up of 5 months , median OS was 4 months ( 95% CI 2 , NA ) . There was no difference in the mean CD8 T cell density between study patients as compared to historical control patients . Nonsignificant increases in the abundance score for specific immune cell subsets were observed in responders as compared to non-responders . CONCLUSIONS : The addition of combined immunotherapy and SBRT was safe and feasible in this patient population . No difference was observed in the mean CD8 T cell density between study patients and historical controls . These findings support the need for better characterization of how neoadjuvant immunotherapy may shift the phenotype of the PDAC TME . FAU - Agarwal , Parul
Ulcerative colitis ( UC ) remains challenging to existing therapeutic approaches , which may have variable efficacy , side effects , and high relapse rates . Increasing evidence indicates the critical role of the gut microbiota in UC pathogenesis , making microbiota-targeted therapies promising for treatment . Here , we propose a novel synbiotic consisting of jujube powder and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and confirm its effectiveness in ameliorating DSS-induced mouse colitis symptoms , including body weight loss , rectal bleeding , diarrhea , colon shortening , and histological damage . The synbiotic also enriched the diversity of the gut microbiota , in which anti-inflammatory microorganisms such as Parasutterella and Parabacteroides were increased while the potentially pathogenic and inflammation-associated microorganisms like Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1 were suppressed . More importantly , the synbiotic helped to maintain immune homeostasis and inhibit the imbalance between Th1 and Th2 cells . The anti-inflammatory efficacy of the synbiotic was shown as a function of the ratio of jujube powder to Faecalibacterium prausnitzii . The aforementioned findings have shown the potential of this synbiotic in ameliorating colitis and are also helpful in deepening our understanding of the effects and mechanisms of the gut microbiota in UC therapy . FAU - Zhou , Yalin
Outcomes from advanced melanoma , the deadliest of the skin cancers arising from melanocytes and capable of widely metastasizing , have greatly improved with death rates decreasing for AJCC stage 4 melanoma patients by 3-5 percent annually over the past 10 years ( 1 , 2 ) . This improvement is a result of advances in both targeted therapy and immunotherapy ( Fig 1 ) . BRAF and MEK inhibitors for advanced melanoma have led the way for targeted cancer strategies and first- in-class approvals for immune checkpoint blockers targeting CTLA4 , PD1 , and LAG3 , T cell engager therapy targeting the antigen gp100 and tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte therapy . All of the preceding have contributed to enhanced outcomes including long-term durable responses in up to half of patients with advanced disease . In addition , adjuvant and neoadjuvant approaches are reducing the risk of relapse in patients with stage II and III disease . Because of its immunogenicity and defined targetable mutations , melanoma drug development has led the way for novel approaches in cancer research . Yet additional approaches are needed for patients with recurrent or non-responsive disease or rare subtypes including mucosal , acral and uveal melanomas . Progress in modified T cells , including TCR , CAR-T and CRISPR gene editing strategies holds promise for future therapeutics . Continued understanding of the molecular and immune tumor microenvironment and heterogeneity , understanding the microbiome and numerous diverse approaches to topics ranging from prevention , to mechanisms of treatment resistance and novel therapeutic approaches , will optimize opportunities to further decrease melanoma mortality . FAU - Flaherty , Keith T
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is closely associated with atrial electrical and structural remodelling , yet effective drug strategies remain limited . Matrine ( MAT ) , the active compound in Sophora flavescens , has shown anti-AF effects , but its mechanisms are unclear . This study explored MAT ' s impact on pressure overload-induced AF using clinical samples , bioinformatics , network pharmacology and murine models , focusing on the canonical Wnt signalling . A murine pressure overload model was established via transverse aortic constriction ( TAC ) surgery for 4 weeks . Programmed electrical stimulation , langendorff perfusion , echocardiography , Masson ' s trichrome staining and western blotting were used to evaluate the potential effects and mechanisms of MAT . The results demonstrated that TAC-induced atrial electrical and structural remodelling significantly increased susceptibility to AF in mice while also up-regulated atrial Wnt3a/beta-catenin signalling as well as markers for remodelling and inflammation , which were partially supported by clinical samples . MAT dose-dependently mitigated atrial structural and electrical remodelling . Furthermore , MAT intervention inhibited Wnt3a/beta-catenin signalling . However , co-administration of SKL2001 , a Wnt/beta-catenin agonist , counteracted MAT ' s benefits . The overall findings suggest that MAT treatment may serve as a potential therapeutic approach for inhibiting TAC-induced atrial electrical and structural remodelling by suppressing Wnt3a/beta-catenin signalling pathways , thereby reducing susceptibility to AF .
Small cell carcinoma of the ovary , hypercalcemic type ( SCCOHT ) is a rare , deadly form of ovarian cancer that uniformly harbors mutations in SMARCA4 , a member of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex . SWI/SNF impacts RNA splicing , and dysregulation of splicing can generate immunogenic tumor antigens . Here , we explored the relationship between SMARCA4 loss and RNA splicing dysregulation . SCCOHT primary tumors harbored tumor-associated outlier splicing events compared to normal tissues . Many of the tumor events were retained introns encoding novel peptides predicted to bind to MHC-I complexes . Immune cells were observed in primary SCCOHT tumors , suggesting a potentially immune reactive tumor microenvironment . Mutations in several SWI/SNF subunits were associated with higher rates of outlier retained introns across tumor types in TCGA data . Interestingly , RNA sequencing of isogenic SCCOHT cell lines demonstrated a role for SMARCA4 in intron retention . Distinct protein-protein interactions between splicing factors identified in SCCOHT cell lines supported a role for SMARCA4 in splicing regulation . Further , SWI/SNF localized to genes which were differentially spliced . Mass spectrometry analyses confirmed expression of some of these novel peptides and a subset of these are predicted to bind to MHC-I complexes . A pool of these novel peptides derived from retained introns in SCCOHT triggered proliferation and expression of TNFa and INFb in primary human T cells . Together , these data suggest that SMARCA4 loss in SCCOHT leads to intron retention . Furthermore , T cell activation by novel peptides encoded by these tumor-specific splicing events suggests intron retention could be a source of tumor-associated antigens in SCCOHT . FAU - Raupach , Elizabeth A
Sarcopenia is defined by age-related reductions in muscle mass , strength , and physiological function , and it is especially prevalent among individuals with autoimmune diseases . Autoimmune disorders , characterized by immune dysregulation , cause systemic inflammation and damage to multiple tissues through unregulated immune activity . Research indicates that autoimmune diseases negatively impact skeletal muscle functions and may worsen the progression of sarcopenia . This viewpoint comprehensively discusses the pathogenesis and potential mechanism of sarcopenia in 3 autoimmune diseases : inflammatory bowel disease , rheumatoid arthritis , and type 1 diabetes mellitus . Mechanistically , chronic immune microenvironment alterations induce compartment-specific redistribution of leukocyte subsets and cytokine networks . These perturbations disrupt critical signaling pathways governing muscle protein synthesis , satellite cell activation , and mitochondrial bioenergetics , leading to impaired regeneration and accelerated sarcopenia progression . By delineating shared and distinct pathomechanisms across these models , this analysis reframes our understanding of immune-mediated muscle wasting . Beyond mechanistic insights , it establishes a translational framework for targeted therapies and highlights emerging research directions bridging immunology and age-related musculoskeletal decline .
This study reports the pre-clinical evaluation of peptides from EPV-CoV-19 , a T cell epitope-based SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidate , following spike-mRNA vaccination of a predominantly Hispanic American cohort . EPV-COV-19 peptides ' potential to boost T cell responses to spike protein vaccines was evaluated , confirming previously observed memory recall responses in donors with prior immunity to COVID- The vaccinated subjects ' averaged immune responses to the 15-peptide EPV-CoV-19 pool achieved 85% of the observed response to a spike protein peptide array containing a 7-fold greater epitope content , suggesting that the EPV-CoV-19 peptides have a higher relative concentration of T cell epitope content per-peptide . Ten of the 15 peptides contained spike epitopes conserved in the majority of variants of concern ( VOC ) evaluated over the 2020-2024 period . While commercial vaccines exhibited gradual loss of T cell epitope conservation with VOC over time , the EPV-CoV-19 epitope-peptides maintained conservation until the XBB variant emerged . The addition of one new peptide to the vaccine design reestablished broad T cell epitope coverage . These findings underscore the importance of identifying highly conserved T cell epitopes for vaccine designs that target rapidly-mutating strains of emergent pathogens , while also documenting broad memory T cell response to the vaccine in a predominantly Hispanic American cohort . FAU - Haltaufderhyde , Kirk
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus ( VEEV ) represents a significant biothreat with no FDA-approved vaccine currently available , highlighting the need for alternative therapeutic strategies . Single-domain antibodies ( sdAbs ) present a potential alternative to conventional antibodies , due to their small size and ability to recognize cryptic epitopes . METHODS : This research describes the development and preliminary evaluation of VEEV-binding sdAbs generated using a generative artificial intelligence ( AI ) platform . Using a dataset of known alphavirus-binding sdAbs , the AI model produced sequences with predicted affinity for the E2 glycoprotein of VEEV . These candidate sdAbs were expressed in a bacterial periplasmic system and purified for initial assessment . RESULTS : Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays ( ELISAs ) indicated binding activity of the sdAbs to VEEV antigens . In vitro neutralization tests suggested inhibition of VEEV infection in cultured cells for some of the candidates . CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates how generative AI can expedite antiviral therapeutic development and establishes a framework for quick responses to emerging viral threats when extensive example databases are unavailable . Additional refinement and validation of AI-generated sdAbs could establish effective VEEV therapeutics . FAU - Liu , Jinny L
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Pharmaceutical companies are aware of the ongoing effort to satisfy the increasing global demand for therapeutic-grade monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) , an especially difficult challenge for poor and developing countries . We present a simple , economical , single-step purification approach at neutral pH for polyclonal human IgG ( hIgG ) , which does not require any expensive ligands , chromatography columns , polymers , or membranes . METHODS/RESULTS : Instead , porous precipitates of commercial , recyclable aromatic [bathophenanthroline : cation] complexes were found to efficiently capture impurity proteins from CHO cells or E . coli lysate while maintaining the majority of the highly concentrated hIgG ( 5-15 mg/mL ) in the supernatant . [ ( Batho ) : Zn ( 2+ ) ] complexes were the most promising , resulting in hIgG with a purity of approximately 95% , by SDS-PAGE . This purified hIgG is monomeric ( by dynamic light scattering , DLS ) and preserves the native secondary structure ( by far UV circular dichroism spectroscopy , CD ) . The process yield is >90% ( by densitometry ) and is maintained after a 100-fold increase in the reaction volume , which required only proportional increases in reagents . CONCLUSIONS : Although Protein A chromatographic columns , the industry gold standard , have a limited binding capacity , are costly , and require familiarity with column maintenance , we are attempting , by our efforts , to help to produce a more efficient , simple , and economical purification platform . FAU - Withanage , Thisara Jayawickrama
OBJECTIVE : We developed a targeted integration-based CHO cell platform for simultaneous antibody display and secretion , enabling a streamlined transition from antibody library screening to production without requiring the re-cloning of antibody genes . METHODS : The platform consists of a CHO master cell line with a single-copy landing pad , a helper vector expressing FLPe recombinase , and bi-functional targeting vectors . Recombinase-mediated cassette exchange was utilized to integrate targeting vectors into the landing pad . Bi-functional vectors were designed by incorporating a minimal furin cleavage sequence ( mFCS ) , RRKR , and various 2A peptides between the heavy chain ( HC ) and a membrane anchor . RESULTS : Incomplete cleavage at the mFCS and 2A sites facilitated the expression of both membrane-bound and secreted antibodies , while mutations in the 2A peptide produced a range of display-to-secretion ratios . However , a fraction of secreted antibodies retained 2A residues attached to the HC polypeptides . Further analysis demonstrated that modifying the first five amino acids of the 2A peptide significantly influenced furin cleavage efficiency , resulting in different display-to-secretion ratios for targeting vectors containing mFCS-2A variant combinations . To overcome this , we designed nine-amino-acid FCS variants that , when placed between the HC and membrane anchor , provided a range of display-to-secretion ratios and eliminated the issue of attached 2A residues in the secreted antibodies . Vectors with lower display levels proved more effective at distinguishing cells expressing high-affinity antibodies with closely matched binding affinities . The platform also demonstrated high sensitivity in isolating high-affinity antibody-expressing cells and supported robust antibody production . CONCLUSION : This targeted integration-based CHO platform enables efficient , in-format screening and production of antibodies with tunable display-to-secretion profiles . It provides a powerful and scalable tool for accelerating the development of functional , manufacturable therapeutic antibodies . FAU - Ng , Jessica P Z
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : The increasing prevalence of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) -positive oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( OPSCC ) has necessitated a revaluation of therapeutic strategies . HPV-driven OPSCC differs from HPV-negative OPSCC due to its distinct molecular signatures , increased radiosensitivity , and better prognoses . However , despite these differences , treatment strategies have remained largely uniform , resulting in minimal reductions in morbidity and exposing HPV-positive patients to unnecessary toxicity . Monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) have become a promising therapeutic option due to their ability to target treatment with fewer systemic side effects . Immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) such as pembrolizumab have shown efficacy in enhancing the immune response against tumors , while EGFR inhibitors like cetuximab offer an alternative modality . Current clinical trials aim to refine dosing regimens and identify combination strategies that may enhance therapeutic outcomes . RESULTS : Despite promising evidence , several challenges hinder the widespread adoption of mAbs as a standard treatment for HPV-positive OPSCC in clinical practice . This review examines the current role of mAbs in HPV-positive OPSCC treatment , highlighting their limitations and future research directions . CONCLUSIONS : Further studies are needed to optimize patient selection , establish standardized treatment protocols , and investigate the long-term benefits of mAb-based therapies in this patient population . FAU - Zalin , Michael
Background : The process of prenatal hematopoiesis occurs in various anatomical locations , including the placenta . The placenta is not merely a temporary hematopoietic reservoir , but it is one of the key sites for the synthesis of hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) . This study aimed to investigate the presence , distribution , and immunoprofiles of HSCs in the human placenta during different gestational periods . Materials and Methods : Placental samples of different gestational ages ( first , second , and third trimesters ) were analyzed using classical hematoxylin and eosin staining and immunohistochemical staining for CD34 , CD117 , and CD41 markers , with HSC quantification through numerical areal density ( N ( A ) ) . Results : Highly immunoreactive CD34 HSCs were present in placentas throughout gestation , while highly immunoreactive CD117 and CD41 HSCs were observed during the first two trimesters . In the first trimester , HSCs were found within the lumen of blood vessels and as individual cells in the mesenchyme of chorionic villi . With advancing gestation , the number of HSCs in the mesenchyme of chorionic villi increased . Conclusions : Immunoreactive CD34 , CD117 , and CD41 cells are present in significant proportions in various parts of the placenta throughout gestation , indicating that the placenta provides a substantial proportion of HSCs for hematopoiesis . FAU - Jovicic , Sanja
Lizards are distinguished as the only amniotes , and closest relatives of mammals , capable of multilineage epimorphic regeneration . Tail blastemas of green anole lizards ( Anolis carolinensis ) consist of col3a1 ( + ) fibroblastic connective tissue cells enclosed in krt5 ( + ) wound epidermis ( WE ) , both of which are required for regeneration . Blastema and WE formation are known to be closely associated with phagocytic cell populations , including macrophages and osteoclasts . However , it remains unclear what specific phagocytic cell types are required to stimulate regeneration . Here , we explicitly assess the roles of osteoclast activity during blastema and WE formation in regenerating lizard tails . First , probe sequencing was performed at regenerative timepoints on fibroblasts isolated based on col3a1 expression toward establishing pathways involved in stimulating blastema formation and subsequent tail regrowth . Next , treatments with osteoclast inhibitor zoledronic acid ( ZA ) were used to assess the roles of osteoclast activity in lizard tail regeneration and fibroblast signaling . ZA treatment stunted lizard tail regrowth , suggesting osteoclast activity was required for blastema formation and regeneration . Transcriptomic profiling of fibroblasts isolated from ZA-treated and control lizards linked inhibition of osteoclast activity with limitations in fibroblasts to form pro-regenerative extracellular matrix and support WE formation . These results suggest that crosstalk between osteoclasts and fibroblasts regulates blastema and WE formation during lizard tail regeneration . FAU - Gamble , Darian J
It is not yet understood why cows that exhibit estrus and ovulate are more likely to become pregnant than those that ovulate but do not exhibit estrus during a fixed-time artificial insemination ( FTAI ) protocol . The objective of this work was to determine whether the follicular fluid from cows that exhibit estrus contributes to the increased likelihood of pregnancy . Lactating crossbred cows were subjected to an FTAI estrous synchronization protocol . Estrous behavior was observed and recorded prior to transvaginal follicle aspiration from cows that did ( estrus , n = 7 ) or did not exhibit estrus ( non-estrus , n = 6 ) . Follicular fluid ( 25% ) was then added to in vitro maturation media for the maturation of oocytes ( n = 1489 ) from slaughterhouse ovaries . Cleavage rates were not affected by the estrous status of the cows from which the follicular fluid was collected . Blastocyst rates , however , were greater following maturation in the presence of follicular fluid from estrus cows compared to non-estrus cows ( p </= 01 ) . This difference in blastocyst rates was not related to blastocyst cell numbers ( inner cell mass , trophoblast , and total ) , as they did not differ between estrus and non-estrus animals . This study demonstrates that the follicular fluid , and thus , the follicular environment just prior to ovulation does indeed contribute to improved pregnancy rates following FTAI . FAU - Harl , Audra W
Non-Saccharomyces yeast species are increasingly used in winemaking in combination with Saccharomyces cerevisiae to modulate sensory attributes or as processing aids . Consequently , there is academic and practical interest in understanding how different yeast species interact with each other in grape must . Although interactions will depend on the metabolic capabilities of the strains involved , there are other possible interaction mechanisms between wine yeasts . In this work we used extracellular vesicle ( EV ) -enriched fractions from different non-Saccharomyces species to challenge S . cerevisiae inoculated in synthetic grape must . The results show that the previously described response to EVs of Metschnikowia pulcherrima was not an isolated phenomenon , but that S . cerevisiae responds in a general way to EVs of other yeast species . Meta-analysis of the results points to protein biosynthesis and carbon catabolite repression as general targets ; both being stimulated by the interaction , beyond the acclimatisation to the synthetic juice experienced by the control cells . The intensity of the response showed differences between the four species ; while the transcriptional response to M . pulcherrima EVs clearly diverges from that to EVs of the other yeast species , which show greater similarity to each other .
BACKGROUND : Periprosthetic joint infections ( PJIs ) remain a major challenge in arthroplasty . This study tries to evaluate the PJI-TNM classification as predictor for the revision-free implant survival in patients with PJI of the hip or knee joint . METHODS : To this end , we perform a retrospective study of all consecutive patients with PJI of an inlying hip or knee arthroplasty between January 2015 and December RESULTS : A total of 443 cases ( hip : n = 247 ; knee n = 196 ) were identified . In total , 439 patients underwent surgery ( DAIR : n = 138 cases ( 31% ) , explantation : n = 272 ( 61% ) , irrigation with debridement without exchange of implant components : n = 29 ( 5% ) ) . Four patients refused surgical treatment and 5% were lost to follow-up . In total , 78 patients died during follow-up and 27 deaths were directly related to PJI/complications during treatment . Patients with inlying " standard " -implants ( p < 001 ) and without previous history of PJI ( p = 002 ) displayed a significantly higher postoperative revision-free implant survival . In terms of the PJI-TNM subclassification , patients with loosened implants but without soft-tissue defects ( T1 ) displayed the highest revision-free implant survival . In contrast , patients classified as M3 ( no surgical treatment possible ) displayed an inferior outcome compared to M0 , M1 , or M Patients with different N-subclassifications ( " non-human cells " /causative pathogen ) did not display differences in revision-free implant survival . CONCLUSIONS : The PJI-TNM classification is well suited to classify PJIs . Its complexity allows for more than 500 different combinations of classifications . Further validation data are needed , but to us , the PJI-TNM classification seems to offer the possibility of comparing patients with PJIs . It may , therefore , be a very valuable tool in order to compare cohorts with PJIs and provide individual data for patient specific outcomes . FAU - Froschen , Frank Sebastian
Pembrolizumab is used as a first-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer . Pneumonitis and interstitial lung disease are among the most common immune-related adverse events . The impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) infections on patients with cancer treated with chemotherapy or immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) is not fully known . Blocking immune checkpoints may conversely augment dysfunctional T-cell responses in severe patients and , in turn , mediate immunopathology . Here , we present a case of SARS-CoV-2 infection complicated by acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) and a fibrotic-like pattern in a patient treated with pembrolizumab for lung cancer . The patient showed a dramatic clinical and radiological response after steroid therapy . Further research is needed to better understand the long-term implications of pembrolizumab therapy in patients recovering from coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) and to develop evidence-based guidelines for managing these complex cases . Patients undergoing oncologic immunotherapy might benefit from early high-dose steroid treatment in cases of viral infections , such as SARS-CoV- FAU - Zolezzi , Alberto
BACKGROUND : Secondary immunodeficiencies in allo-HSCT ( allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ) recipients increase the risk of viral reactivation , making vaccinations a vital issue . There is a paucity of data on the use of recombinant vaccine against herpes zoster ( RZV ) after allo-HSCT . METHODS : This analysis included 149 recipients of allo-HSCT , transplanted in 2012-2022 , mainly due to hematological malignancies ( >95% ) . RZV was used from 2021 to 2023 according to the current recommendations of ACIP . The ELISA method was used to assess the VZV IgG antibody titers . RESULTS : VZV reactivation was diagnosed in 49 out of 149 ( 33% ) patients before vaccination , including 5 ( 3% ) patients with reactivation within the first year after transplantation and the remaining 44 ( 30% ) within the subsequent three years . At that time , the majority of patients were not receiving acyclovir prophylaxis . The most common clinical manifestation of reactivation was involvement of intercostal nerves , diagnosed in 40 ( 81% ) patients . Twenty-one recipients ( median age : 41 ) received two doses of RZV ( at a median time of 34 months after transplantation , range 12-84 months ) , the majority of them at an interval of 1 month . The serological post-vaccination response was confirmed in 12 recipients , with a ratio of 38-3 ( median 095 ) . The median number of total CD3+CD4+cells in vaccinated patients was 451/muL . Despite vaccination , four patients ( 19% , three with confirmed serological response ) developed herpes zoster . CONCLUSIONS : Herpes zoster occurred mainly in the late period after allo-HSCT after completion of acyclovir prophylaxis in over 30% of recipients . The preliminary results indicate that RZV vaccination after allo-HSCT was safe and more than 80% effective at preventing HZ , but some vaccinated individuals did experience HZ . FAU - Karakulska-Prystupiuk , Ewa
Background/Objectives : The long-term effects of multiple updated vaccinations against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) have not been clarified . Humoral or cellular immunity dynamics in healthcare workers for four years were analyzed . Methods : Blood samples were collected at five time points from April 2021 to January Humoral immunity was analyzed using the 50% neutralizing titer ( NT ) against the original Omicron XBB and Omicron BA . 86 strains and cellular immunity were analyzed using the ELISpot interferon-gamma releasing assay . NTs and the spot-forming count ( SFC ) of the ELISpot assay were compared in the SARS-CoV-2 Omicron XBB- , Omicron-infected , and uninfected subjects . Results : 32 healthcare workers ( median age , 47 years ) who received 3-7 vaccine doses were enrolled . The NTs against the original strain decreased after the second vaccination but were maintained after the third vaccine dose . NTs against the Omicron XBB and BA . 86 strains were detected before the Omicron vaccine was introduced and increased following the updated vaccination . The NTs against the Omicron XBB and BA . 86 strains were elevated after natural infection by the Omicron strain , albeit without differences compared with the findings in uninfected subjects . Multivariate regression analysis revealed no confounder that affected the antibody titer against the BA . 86 strain at the fifth blood sampling . The median number of SFCs ranged from 78 to 208 after the first two doses . Conclusions : Multiple vaccinations induced the production of antibodies with divergent activity against emerging mutant strains and enhanced protective effects against the original strain . This finding supported the importance of updated vaccination . FAU - Kato , Hideaki
Waldenstrom Macroglobulinaemia ( WM ) is sometimes difficult to differentiate from marginal zone lymphoma ( MZL ) , two entities with overlapping features for which no single marker assessed by multiparameter flow cytometry ( MFC ) is specific . The aim of this work was to establish a diagnostic phenotypic score for bone marrow ( BM ) and peripheral blood ( PB ) WM samples , to differentiate it from MZL and to improve the detection of small circulating WM clones . This study revealed a distinct phenotypic profile between WM and MZL B-cells . WM B-cells showed decreased expression of CD19 , FMC7 , CD22 , CD27 and increased expression of CD79b and CD Supervised and unsupervised MFC analyses were used to define a phenotypic scoring system : a score of 3/6 or greater in BM or 4/7 or greater in PB samples supported the diagnosis of WM ( sensitivity of 9% and 1% and specificity of 0% and 5% , respectively ) . These results were validated in a prospective cohort with very high sensitivity and specificity for the two scoring systems . Clinico-biological correlations showed that the absence or low expression of CD38 on BM WM B-cells was significantly associated with increased BM and PB infiltration ( p < 0001 and p = 0024 respectively ) and CXCR4 mutation ( p < 0001 ) . These results demonstrate that MFC can be used to differentiate WM from MZL with a scoring system that can be easily implemented in routine practice .
Background : Sickle cell disease ( SCD ) significantly impacts diverse racial groups , particularly African American and Hispanic persons , who experience notable disparities in healthcare outcomes . Despite the extensive literature on SCD , studies focusing on in-hospital racial inequities remain limited . Methods : We conducted a retrospective analysis using the National Inpatient Sample ( NIS ) from 2016 to 2020 , identifying adult hospitalizations for SCD ( HbSS genotype ) . Hospitalizations were categorized by race-White , African American , Hispanic , and other , and analyzed for demographic variables , admission types , disposition outcomes , and complications . Statistical analyses included chi-square tests and multivariate logistic regression , adjusting for confounders . Results : Of the 1 , 089 , 270 identified hospitalizations , 31% were African American . African American and Hispanic patients exhibited significantly higher non-elective admissions compared to Whites ( 81% ) . In-hospital mortality was highest among Hispanics ( 82% ) . Multivariate regression analysis revealed that African Americans and others had higher odds of prolonged hospital stays ( Adjusted Odds Ratio ( AOR ) : 30 and 20 , respectively ) . African Americans and Hispanics also had increased risks of in-hospital complications of SCD . Conclusions : This study highlights substantial racial disparities in SCD hospitalizations , with African Americans and Hispanics facing poorer outcomes compared to Whites . Hispanics also demonstrated increased mortality . These findings underscore the need for targeted healthcare interventions to address racial inequities in SCD management and improve outcomes for all affected populations . FAU - Jayakumar , Jayalekshmi
BACKGROUND : Severe aplastic anemia ( SAA ) is an uncommon life-threatening disorder characterized by hypocellular bone marrow and pancytopenia . It is typically associated with immune-mediated mechanisms , requiring immunosuppressive therapy ( IST ) or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) . Infections , especially invasive fungal infections such as mucormycosis and aspergillosis , constitute principal causes of morbidity and mortality in patients with SAA . Genetic predispositions , including perforin ( PRF1 ) polymorphisms , may further complicate disease outcomes by impairing immune function . CASE REPORT : We describe a case of a 36-year-old female patient diagnosed with SAA , for whom IST was considered , due to the unavailability of a matched sibling donor for HSCT . The patient presented with a feverish condition and deep neck space abscesses were revealed by imaging , caused by invasive aspergillosis . To prioritize infection control , IST was postponed and antifungal therapy with abscess drainage was initiated . However , aspergillosis progressed , despite aggressive and prompt treatment , and ultimately resulted in sepsis , multiorgan failure , and death . In addition , mucormycosis was confirmed post-mortem . Two heterozygous PRF1 polymorphisms ( c . 272C>T and c . 900C>T ) , were identified by genetic testing , which may have contributed to immune dysregulation and fungal dissemination . CONCLUSIONS : The complex interplay between managing SAA and addressing invasive fungal infections , which remain a leading cause of mortality in immunocompromised patients , is highlighted in this case . The latter emphasizes the importance of prompt diagnosis and targeted treatment to alleviate infection-related complications while maintaining care continuity for the hematologic disorder . The detection of PRF1 polymorphisms raises questions about their implication in immune regulation and disease trajectory , emphasizing the need for further research in this field . FAU - Krithinaki , Maria I
Primary mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma ( PMLBCL ) is a rare and aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma ( NHL ) , considered a specific entity with proper characteristics , therapies , and prognosis . First-line treatment is not unique , and subsequent strategies in case of disease persistence or relapse are the subject of debate and studies . In this scenario , [18F]FDG PET/CT plays a pivotal role both in characterizing the mediastinal mass , the main feature of PMLBCL , in staging , in restaging during therapy ( interim PET ) , and at the end of treatment ( EoT PET ) , to guide clinical management and give prognostic insights . The main issue with PMLBCL is distinguishing viable disease from residual fibrotic/inflammatory mass after therapy and , consequently , settling the next clinical strategy . Novel therapeutic approaches are ongoing and associated with the deepening of [18F]FDG PET/CT potentials as a principal tool in this context . In this review , we will explore PMLBCL from a Nuclear Medicine point of view to help clinicians in the management of these patients . FAU - Nappi , Anna Giulia
Background and Clinical Significance : Post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorder ( PTLD ) is a severe complication of solid organ transplantation , often associated with prolonged immunosuppression . Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) is the most common subtype . Managing PTLD requires a balance between reducing immunosuppression and preventing graft rejection . Case Presentation : A 41-year-old female kidney transplant recipient developed PTLD eight years post-transplant , presenting with a right submandibular mass . Biopsy confirmed CD20-positive DLBCL . Initial treatment involved reducing immunosuppression and rituximab monotherapy , which failed to prevent disease progression . The patient underwent six cycles of R-CHOP chemotherapy , achieving complete metabolic remission . Relapse occurred twice , with disease progression in the cervical nodes and tonsils . Salvage therapies , including polatuzumab vedotin and rituximab , achieved remission . During a subsequent relapse , loncastuximab tesirine induced metabolic resolution . Compromised renal function limited treatment options and a second renal transplant was delayed , reducing the risk of PTLD recurrence . Conclusions : This case underscores the challenges of managing PTLD in transplant recipients , especially in relapsed/refractory cases . Single-agent rituximab was insufficient , but combination chemotherapy and novel agents like loncastuximab tesirine were effective . Balancing oncologic control and graft preservation remains critical . This case highlights the need for individualized approaches and novel therapies in managing PTLD while addressing the complexities of immunosuppression and organ preservation . FAU - Alshemmari , Salem
Since its discovery , TRPC6 has been associated with a variety of physiological and pathophysiological processes in different tissues . It functions as a non-selective cation channel and belongs to the group of TRP channels . Its importance in the development of pain hypersensitivity is becoming increasingly apparent . This condition has already been associated with increased expression of TRPC6 in dorsal root ganglia . Apart from the fact that most of the evidence has been obtained from samples of animal origin , it remains unclear whether the channel is also expressed in peripheral nerves outside the dorsal root ganglia . The aim of this work was therefore to examine peripheral nerves from human samples for TRPC For this purpose , samples of both the sciatic and ulnar nerves were taken from a total of eight body donors and analyzed by immunohistochemistry . Both longitudinal and transverse sections were obtained from the samples and stained . In total , 43 of 48 histological sections showed a positive immunosignal . There were no major differences between the sciatic and ulnar nerves with regard to staining . There was a slight difference in the staining intensity of transverse and longitudinal sections . The longitudinal sections of both nerves were consistently colored slightly more intensely . However , the inter-individual differences between the donors were more pronounced . Interestingly , the samples of a donor who suffered from chronic pain syndrome during his lifetime were particularly strongly stained . This is consistent with the knowledge gained to date , largely from animal experiments , that the channel shows increased expression in pain conditions in dorsal root ganglia . In the future , TRPC6 could therefore be a target in pain therapy . FAU - Raming , Cedric
BACKGROUND : Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells ( MSCs ) are non-hematopoietic , plastic-adherent , and self-renewing cells capable of in vitro trilineage differentiation into fat , bone , and cartilage tissue . Suggestively , MSCs have additional plasticity , as demonstrated by their ability to differentiate in vitro into myocytes , neuron-like cells , and hepatocytes . MSCs are ideal for therapeutic application owing to their numerous advantages ; they exhibit limited growth and differentiation abilities , leading to heterogeneous cell populations with inconsistent functions . However , highly purified MSCs , namely , rapidly expanding clones ( RECs ) that are isolated by single-cell sorting , display uniform functionality . RECs have the potential to offer many benefits , such as transplantable cells for treating several disorders of bone , heart , peripheral nerves , brain , and other organs . This study aimed to assess the effects of RECs on the pheochromocytoma ( PC12 ) cell line , a well-known neuronal cell model . METHODS : PC12 cells were cultured under the following conditions : co-culture with RECs , treatment with REC-derived conditioned medium ( CM ) , or co-culture with RECs using Transwell inserts for 7 days . The cells were stained with anti-betaIII-tubulin antibody ; the lengths of neurites were measured by image analysis . RESULTS : Regarding the co-culture with RECs , PC12 ' s outgrowth was significantly increased . The RECs expressed nerve growth factor ( NGF ) , a neurotrophic factor that could act on PC12 cells to trigger cellular differentiation . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that RECs via direct culture , intercellular communication in Transwell culture , and RECs CM promoted PC12 cell survival and outgrowth via NGF signaling . FAU - Ramanathan , Mrunalini
Alzheimer ' s disease has long been associated with the aggregation of amyloid beta peptides ( Abeta42 ) into macroscale plaques , although specific neurodegenerative agents have not been definitively identified . Much evidence has pointed to the soluble nanoscale oligomers that form early in the Abeta42 aggregation pathway , but there is little understanding of these structures , their mechanisms of formation , or how they grow into plaques . Here , we show that a solvatochromic fluorophore with near-infrared ( NIR ) emission can track synthetic Abeta42 aggregation through environment-sensitive spectral shifts from the earliest time points through plaque formation . This azide-functionalized phosphine oxide azetidine rhodol ( Phazr-N ) shows large polarity-dependent changes in fluorescence emission , with maxima shifting from 630 nm in toluene to 703 nm in aqueous buffer , and a maximum quantum yield of 62% . Upon induction of Abeta42 aggregation , we observe immediate solvatochromic changes in Phazr-N fluorescence , with multiple apparent phases over 12 h , and which culminate before the onset of any major fluorescence changes of conformation-specific aggregation fluorophore thioflavin T . Solution anisotropy measurements show a low micromolar affinity of Phazr-N for disordered , free Abeta42 in solution , and real-time measurements are consistent with rapid liquid-liquid phase separation and slow dehydration of the growing aggregate . Spectral imaging of synthetic plaques stained in the presence of live cells and lipid-binding protein albumin shows over 4000-fold Phazr-N fluorescence intensity above background under no-wash conditions , and over 100-fold intensity above coplated microglial cells or a large excess of albumin . This use of a solvatochromic probe with structure-independent binding to free Abeta42 offers real-time , minimally invasive insight into the full Abeta42 aggregation pathway . FAU - Wang , Zeming
Background : Podocytes are essential for kidney function , and their dysfunction can result in nephrotic syndrome , such as minimal change disease ( MCD ) . Oxidative stress contributes to podocyte damage . We investigated the therapeutic potential of intravenously infused mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) in a puromycin aminonucleoside ( PAN ) -induced rodent MCD model , focusing on oxidative stress modulation . Methods : Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into three groups : intact , PAN-Vehicle , and PAN-MSC . MCD was induced through subcutaneous PAN injection . MSCs were infused intravenously in the PAN-MSC group on day Urinary albumin , serum albumin , and creatinine levels were assessed . Histological analysis of the renal cortex was performed . Podocyte protein ( NPHS1 , NPHS2 , and PODXL ) and antioxidant enzyme ( SOD1 , SOD2 , and GPX1 ) levels were measured using quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR ( qRT-PCR ) . Results : MSC infusion significantly reduced proteinuria and restored podocyte structure in the PAN-MSC group . Electron microscopy revealed that infused MSCs could inhibit the fusion of the foot process induced by PAN injection . qRT-PCR showed that intravenous infusion of MSCs rescued the inhibition of GPX1 expression . GFP-labeled MSCs accumulated at the podocyte injury sites . Conclusion : Systemic MSC infusion mitigates PAN-induced MCD by reducing proteinuria , preserving podocyte structure , and modulating oxidative stress via the GPX1 pathway , offering a potential therapeutic approach for nephrotic syndrome . FAU - Iizuka , Yusuke
Seyedeh Elnaz Banijamali was not included as an author in the original publication [ . . . ] . FAU - Schlosser , Verena
Background/Objectives : SINEs ( short interspersed elements ) are eukaryotic non-autonomous retrotransposons . They are transcribed by RNA polymerase III ( pol III ) and generate non-coding RNAs . The 3 ' end of many mammalian SINEs contains a polyadenylation signal ( AATAAA ) , a pol III transcription terminator , and an A-rich tail . Studies have shown that , in human HeLa cells that have been transiently transfected with such SINEs , short pol III-generated SINE transcripts undergo polyadenylation , resulting in the addition of a long poly ( A ) -tail . Notably , this AAUAAA-dependent polyadenylation is not characteristic of any other transcripts synthesized by pol III . B2 SINEs , found in the genomes of mouse-like rodents , exemplify all these features . Methods : In this study , we implemented a novel approach to sequencing pol III-generated B2 transcripts from mouse cell cultures ( L929 and 4T1 ) and organs ( brain and testis ) . Results : Transcription occurred in 16 , 000-20 , 000 B2 copies in each cell type , 51-62% of which were transcribed in all four cell types . Effective transcription terminators ( e . g . , TCT ( >3 ) and T ( >/=4 ) ) were found in approximately 40% of the transcribed B2 copies . The transcripts of these B2 copies contained a truncated terminator sequence , as pol III transcriptional arrest is known to occur within the terminator , with a poly ( A ) -tail immediately downstream . Such a tail could only have formed through RNA polyadenylation . Conclusions : These results demonstrate that B2 transcripts synthesized by pol III are capable of polyadenylation in mouse cells . We discuss the transcription of B2 copies with and without moderately efficient pol III terminators ( TCTTT ) and provide examples of the polyadenylation of such transcripts . FAU - Borodulina , Olga R
Background : Platelet-derived Extracellular Vesicles , or " Platelet Dust " ( PD ) , are reported as the most-abundant extracellular vesicles in plasma . However , the PD molecular content , especially the small RNA profile , is still poorly characterized . This study aims to characterize PD and other extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , focusing on their small RNA signatures and diagnostic potential . Methods : The EVs were isolated directly from the plasma of healthy donors and patients with NSCLC using the surface markers CD9 , CD63 , CD81 ( overall EVs ) , and CD61 ( PD ) . Small RNA sequencing was then performed to comprehensively profile the miRNAs . Results : Our analysis revealed distinct small RNA profiles in the EVs and the PD from the patients with NSCLC . The EVs ( CD9- , CD63- , and CD81-positive ) showed the enrichment of four miRNAs and the depletion of ten miRNAs , while the PD ( CD61-positive ) exhibited a more complex profile , with nineteen miRNAs enriched and nine miRNAs depleted in the patients with NSCLC compared to those of the healthy controls . Conclusions : This exploratory study enhances our understanding of miRNA composition within different plasma vesicle populations , shedding light on the biology of plasma vesicles and their contents . Furthermore , utilizing an extracellular vesicle isolation method with potential clinical applicability offers the prospect of improved cancer characterization and detection by selecting the most informative subpopulation of plasma vesicles . FAU - Antunes-Ferreira , Mafalda
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Metastatic prostate cancer ( PCa ) remains a major clinical challenge with limited therapeutic options . The long non-coding RNA H19 has been implicated in regulating cell adhesion molecules and collective migration , key features of metastatic dissemination . This study investigates the role of the Bromodomain and Extra-Terminal ( BET ) proteins BRD2 , BRD3 , and BRD4 in the H19-dependent transcriptional regulation of cell adhesion molecules . Currently , the major effects of BET inhibitors require androgen receptor ( AR ) expression . METHODS : H19 was stably silenced in PC-3 ( AR-null ) and 22Rv1 ( AR-positive ) castration-resistant PCa cells . The cells were treated with the pan-BET inhibitors JQ1 and OTX015 or the BET degrader dBET In vivo , the effects of JQ1 were evaluated in xenograft mouse models . Chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) and RNA-ChIP were used to assess BET protein recruitment and interaction with cell adhesion gene loci and H Organotypic slice cultures ( OSCs ) from fresh PCa surgical specimens were used as ex vivo models to validate transcriptional changes and BRD4 recruitment . RESULTS : BET inhibition significantly reduced the expression of beta4 integrin and E-cadherin and cell proliferation in both basal conditions , and following H19 knockdown in PC-3 and 22Rv1 cells . These effects were mirrored in JQ1-treated tumor xenografts , which showed marker downregulation and tumor regression . ChIP assays revealed that BRD4 , more than BRD2/3 , was enriched on beta4 integrin and E-cadherin promoters , especially in regions marked by H3K27ac . H19 silencing markedly enhanced BRD4 promoter occupancy . RNA-ChIP confirmed a specific interaction between BRD4 and H These findings were validated in OSCs , reinforcing their clinical relevance . CONCLUSIONS : Our study demonstrates that BRD4 epigenetically regulates the H19-mediated transcriptional control of adhesion molecules involved in collective migration and metastatic dissemination . Importantly , these effects are independent of AR status , suggesting that targeting the H19/BRD4 axis may represent a promising therapeutic avenue for advanced PCa . FAU - Pecci , Valeria
Background/Objectives : X-inactive-specific transcript ( XIST ) is a factor that plays a role in neuroinflammation . This study investigated the role of XIST in neuronal development , neuroinflammation , myelination , and therapeutic responses within cerebral organoids in the context of Multiple Sclerosis ( MS ) pathogenesis . Methods : Human cerebral organoids with oligodendrocytes were produced from XIST-silenced H9 cells , and the mature organoids were subsequently treated with either FTY720 or DMF . Gene expression related to inflammation and myelination was subsequently analyzed via qRT-PCR . Immunofluorescence staining was used to assess the expression of proteins related to inflammation , myelination , and neuronal differentiation . Alpha-synuclein protein levels were also checked via ELISA . Finally , transcriptome analysis was conducted on the organoid samples . Results : XIST-silenced organoids presented a 2-fold increase in the expression of neuronal stem cells , excitatory neurons , microglia , and mature oligodendrocyte markers . In addition , XIST silencing increased IL-10 mRNA expression by 2-fold and MBP and PLP1 expression by 3- and 6-fold , respectively . Although XIST silencing tripled IBA1 protein expression , it did not affect organoid MBP expression . FTY720 , but not DMF , distinguished MBP and IBA1 expression in XIST-silenced organoids . Furthermore , XIST silencing reduced the concentration of alpha-synuclein from 300 to 100 pg/mL , confirming its anti-inflammatory role . Transcriptomic and gene enrichment analyses revealed that the differentially expressed genes are involved in neural development and immune processes , suggesting the role of XIST in neuroinflammation . The silencing of XIST modified the expression of genes associated with inflammation , myelination , and neuronal growth in cerebral organoids , indicating a potential involvement in the pathogenesis of MS . Conclusions : XIST may contribute to the MS pathogenesis as well as neuroinflammatory diseases such as and Alzheimer ' s and Parkinson ' s diseases and may be a promising therapeutic target . FAU - Aktas Pepe , Nihan
Adipocyte differentiation is a complex process in which pluripotent mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) differentiate and develop into mature fat cells , also known as adipocytes . This process is controlled by various transcription factors , hormones , and signaling molecules that regulate the development of these cells . Recently , an increasing number of non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) , especially microRNAs ( miRNAs ) , have been established to be involved in the regulation of many biological processes , including adipocyte differentiation , development , metabolism , and energy homeostasis of white and brown adipose tissue . Several in vitro and in vivo studies reported the significant role of ncRNAs in either promoting or inhibiting adipocyte differentiation into white or brown fat cells by targeting specific transcription factors and regulating the expression of key adipogenic genes . Identifying the function of ncRNAs and their subsequent targets contributes to our understanding of how these molecules can be used as potential biomarkers and tools for therapies against obesity , diabetes , and other diseases related to obesity . This could also contribute to advancements in tissue-engineering based treatments . In this review , we intended to present an up-to-date comprehensive literature overview of the role of ncRNAs , including miRNAs , long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) , and circular RNAs ( circRNAs ) , focusing particularly on miRNAs , in regulating the differentiation and development of cells into white and brown adipose tissue . In addition , we further discuss the potential use of these molecules as biomarkers for the development of novel therapeutic strategies for future personalized treatment options for patients . FAU - Sleiman , Lea
Organic electronics are rapidly advancing , driven by innovative materials and device design strategies that can enhance both mechanical robustness and device performance , thereby broadening their potential applications . The emergence of skin-like electronics has positioned devices such as thin film transistors as promising candidates for various applications , including biosensing , bioelectronics and regenerative medicine . Despite these promising developments , achieving stretchable and deformable organic electronics that are also biocompatible and degradable upon demand remains a considerable challenge . In this work , we developed a flexible , biocompatible , and degradable organic field-effect transistor ( OFET ) through the integration of a degradable substrate , a high-performance semiconducting polymer , and collagen horizontal line one of the main components of human skin . The resulting devices demonstrated both excellent electronic properties and favorable mechanical properties , with the devices retaining their characteristics under various bending strains and after multiple bending cycles . Additionally , to explore the degradability , we subjected the devices to controlled conditions , achieving approximately 48% mass loss within a few days . Biocompatibility assessments were conducted using human embryonic kidney cells , with cell viability tests confirming the compatibility of the devices and their individual components . Overall , our findings underscore the potential of collagen-based organic electronics for advancing deformable bioelectronics , combining key features such as biocompatibility and degradability to address critical needs in this emerging field . FAU - Kulatunga , Piumi
Respiratory virus infections , such as those caused by influenza viruses , respiratory syncytial virus ( RSV ) , and coronaviruses , pose a significant global health burden . While the immune system ' s adaptive components , including memory T cells , are critical for recognizing and combating these pathogens , recurrent infections and variable disease outcomes persist . Memory T cells are a key element of long-term immunity , capable of responding swiftly upon re-exposure to pathogens . They play diverse roles , including cross-reactivity to conserved viral epitopes and modulation of inflammatory responses . However , the protective efficacy of these cells is influenced by several factors , including viral evolution , host age , and immune system dynamics . This review explores the dichotomy of memory T cells in respiratory virus infections : their potential to confer robust protection and the limitations that allow for breakthrough infections . Understanding the underlying mechanisms governing the formation , maintenance , and functional deployment of memory T cells in respiratory mucosa is critical for improving immunological interventions . We highlight recent advances in vaccine strategies aimed at bolstering T cell-mediated immunity and discuss the challenges posed by viral immune evasion . Addressing these gaps in knowledge is pivotal for designing effective therapeutics and vaccines to mitigate the global burden of respiratory viruses . FAU - Sutanto , Henry
Cancer is the second leading cause of mortality worldwide . Despite the available treatment options , a majority of cancer patients develop drug resistance , indicating the need for alternative approaches . Repurposed drugs , such as antiglycolytic and anti-microbial agents , have gained substantial attention as potential alternative strategies against different disease pathophysiologies , including lung cancer . To that end , multiple studies have suggested that the antiglycolytic dichloroacetate ( DCA ) and the antibiotic salinomycin ( SAL ) possess promising anticarcinogenic activity , attributed to their abilities to target the key metabolic enzymes , ion transport , and oncogenic signaling pathways involved in regulating cancer cell behavior , including cell survival and proliferation . We used the following searches and selection criteria . Biosis and PubMed were used with the search terms dichloroacetate ; salinomycin ; dichloroacetate as an anticancer agent ; salinomycin as an anticancer agent ; dichloroacetate side effects ; salinomycin side effects ; salinomycin combination therapy ; dichloroacetate combination therapy ; and dichloroacetate or salinomycin in combination with other agents , including chemotherapy and tyrosine kinase inhibitors . The exclusion criteria included not being related to the mechanisms of DCA and SAL or not focusing on their anticancer properties . All the literature was sourced from peer-reviewed journals within a timeframe of 1989 to Importantly , experimental studies have demonstrated that both DCA and SAL exert promising anticarcinogenic properties , as well as having synergistic effects in combination with other therapeutic agents , against multiple cancer models . The goal of this review is to highlight the mechanistic workings and efficacy of DCA and SAL as monotherapies , and their combination with other therapeutic agents in various cancer models , with a major emphasis on non-small-cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) treatment . FAU - Hunt , Sunny
Nanoplastic ( NP ) pollution has emerged as a growing concern due to its potential impact on human health , although its adverse effects on different organ systems are not yet fully understood . This systematic scoping review , conducted in accordance with international guidelines , aimed to map the current evidence on the biological effects of NPs . In vitro animal studies assessing cellular damage caused by exposure to any type of NP were searched on PubMed , Web of Science , and Scopus . Data on primary outcomes related to genotoxicity and cytotoxicity ( cell viability , oxidative stress , inflammation , DNA and cytoplasmic damage , apoptosis ) were extracted from the included studies , and overall reporting quality was assessed . A total of 108 articles published between 2018 and 2024 , mostly by China ( 54% ) , Spain ( 14% ) , and Italy ( 9% ) , were included . Polystyrene ( PS ) was the most frequently studied polymer ( 85% ) . NP sizes in solution ranged from 15 to 531 nm , with a higher prevalence in the 40-100 nm range ( 38% ) . The overall quality of studies was rated as moderate ( 60% ) , with many lacking essential details about cell culture conditions ( e . g . , pH of the medium , passage number , substances used ) . A higher frequency of negative effects from NP exposure was observed in respiratory cell lines , while immune , digestive , and hepatic cell lines showed greater resistance . Nervous , urinary , and connective tissue systems were impacted by NPs . Positively charged and smaller PS particles were consistently associated with higher toxicity across all systems . In summary , this review highlights the multifactorial nature of NP toxicity , influenced by size , surface charge , and polymer type . It also reveals a significant knowledge gap , stemming from the predominant use of immortalized monocultures exposed to commercially available PS NPs , the limited use of environmentally relevant particles , and the underutilization of advanced experimental models ( e . g . , organ-on-chip systems ) that better mimic physiological conditions . FAU - Viana , Maria
Phthalates , a group of synthetic non-persistent organic chemicals commonly used as solvents and plasticisers , have been associated with a range of detrimental health effects . These endocrine disrupting chemicals ( ECDs ) may exert their effects through epigenetic changes such as altered microRNA ( miRNA ) expression . miRNAs are short non-coding endogenous RNA transcripts that are preferentially expressed in various tissues and cell types and can circulate in body fluids , thereby regulating gene expression and acting as mediators for intercellular communication . As miRNAs mostly target protein-coding transcripts , they are involved in nearly all networks that regulate developmental and pathological processes . In this review , we provide an overview of human , in vivo and in vitro studies assessing altered miRNA expression due to phthalate exposure and their biological effects . Importantly , this study suggests that the mechanism of phthalate action may in part be mediated by epigenetic changes , affecting a large number of different proteins . This is indicative that alterations in miRNA expression induced by phthalate exposure are then implicated in a wide range of health conditions , including reproductive dysfunction , oncogenesis , metabolic disorders , and neurodevelopmental outcomes . Exposure to phthalates and their metabolites predominantly results in the upregulation of miRNAs . Dysregulation of miR-34a , miR-15b , miR-141 , miR-184 , miR-19a , miR-125 , and miR-let-7 were observed across several studies . More research involving human participants combined with mechanistic studies integrating mRNA target analysis would be beneficial in understanding the downstream effects of phthalate exposure on gene expression and grasping the broader biological implications . FAU - Mohammed , Aamer
Pituitary adenomas , although predominantly benign , can lead to significant clinical complications due to endocrine imbalances and mass effects on adjacent structures . Traditional research has focused on intrinsic factors like genetic mutations and hormonal dysregulation ; however , emerging evidence implicates environmental pollutants-particularly urban air contaminants-in pituitary tumorigenesis . This review consolidates current findings on how chronic exposure to pollutants such as benzene , di ( 2-ethylhexyl ) phthalate ( DEHP ) , and polychlorinated biphenyls ( PCBs ) may trigger neuroinflammation , disrupt the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA ) axis , and alter pituitary cell proliferation and hormone secretion . We explore mechanistic pathways involving inflammatory cytokines , oxidative stress , and microenvironmental modifications that contribute to neoplastic transformation and tumor progression . Epidemiological studies , supported by in vitro experiments , suggest that air pollutants not only initiate the development of pituitary adenomas but may also enhance the secretory activity of functioning tumors , potentially increasing their aggressiveness . Given the escalating global burden of air pollution and its far-reaching public health implications , further investigation is essential to elucidate these complex interactions . Advancing our understanding in this area could inform preventive strategies and therapeutic interventions aimed at mitigating the environmental impact on pituitary tumor behavior . FAU - Boyke , Andre E
Heavy metal toxicity leads to impaired crop growth and reduced crop yields and product quality by disrupting plant nutrient uptake , inhibiting development , inducing oxidative stress , and causing cellular toxicity . Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi ( AMF ) can play a crucial role in crops ' adaptation to manganese ( Mn ) toxicity by regulating nutrient uptake and altering subcellular compartmentalization . The present study examines the influence of intact extraradical mycelia ( ERMs ) from native AMF on wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) grown in Mn-toxic soil , with a focus on the tissue-specific and subcellular Ca , Mg , P , and Mn distribution . Wheat cultivated in soil pre-colonized using an intact ERM associated with Lolium rigidum or Ornithopus compressus exhibited enhanced growth and improved P contents . During the first week of growth , the Mn concentrations increased in the wheat ' s roots and shoots , but Mn was subsequently reduced and sequestered within the cell wall . In contrast , in the absence of an intact ERM , the Mn accumulation in wheat followed an apparent continuous time-course pattern . AMF-mediated cell wall sequestration seems to contribute to Mn detoxification by limiting excessive cytoplasmic accumulation . Furthermore , AMF-driven changes in the element distribution suggest a dynamic response , wherein an early-stage nutrient uptake transitions into a long-term protective mechanism . These findings highlight the potential of AMF in mitigating Mn stress in crops , providing insights for sustainable agriculture and soil remediation strategies . FAU - Faria , Jorge Miguel Silva
Retinoic acid ( RA ) , a vitamin A derivative , has been shown to prevent the development of neurological disorders by ensuring the integrity of the physiological structure of the neurovascular unit and regulating the physiological cell ' s function . After an ischemia event , RA reduces the effects of blood-brain barrier disruption by blocking the apoptotic signaling pathway . However , the effect of RA on smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) , which are crucial to maintaining blood perfusion , has never been investigated . This study aimed to evaluate the effect of RA on the vasoactive response of middle cerebral artery SMCs in normal and ischemic contexts ( O and glucose deprivation , OGD ) . For this purpose , SMCs cultures were incubated with RA , and the vasoactive response was evaluated in both conditions ( OGD and non-OGD ) . To simulate OGD , co-cultures of neurons and astrocytes were made and incubated with RA to analyze the effect of the secretome released by these cells on SMCs contractility . In non-OGD conditions , RA induced rapid relaxation of SMCs and , in the long term ( 24 h ) , promoted cell contraction . In OGD conditions , SMCs contractility patterns were different when pre-incubated with RA . In these conditions , NA loses its contractility effect , and SNP seems to revert its relaxant effect . However , SMCs pre-incubated with 5 uM RA show the vasorelaxant pattern typical of SNP , despite the OGD condition . These effects demonstrate an effect of RA on the vasoactive profile of SMCs , with therapeutic potential in OGD conditions . FAU - Pouso , Manuel R
Altered body condition and diminished growth in wildlife in the Alberta Oil Sands Region ( AOSR ) are prompting investigations into the impact of oil sands industrial activity on wildlife in the region . Chemical constituents from bitumen-influenced waters , including oil sands process-affected water ( OSPW ) , can disrupt endocrine signaling , leading to aberrant lipid accumulation and altered glycemic control in mammals . This study aimed to investigate the effects of naphthenic acid fraction components ( NAFCs ) , derived from OSPW , on energy homeostasis using the McA-RH7777 rat hepatocyte model . Cells were exposed to NAFCs at nominal concentrations of 0 , 73 , 7 , and 4 mg/L for 24 and 48 h . We assessed gene expression related to lipid and glucose metabolism and measured triglyceride accumulation , glucose , and fatty acid uptake . NAFC exposure ( 7 and 4 mg/L ) reduced triglyceride levels and glucose uptake and increased fatty acid uptake and the expression of beta-oxidation genes , suggesting a metabolic switch from glucose to fatty acid oxidation . This switch in substrate availability signifies a shift in cellular energy dynamics , potentially linked to altered mitochondrial function . To investigate this , we conducted adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , mitochondrial membrane potential , and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling ( TUNEL ) assays to measure cellular ATP levels , mitochondrial membrane potential , and apoptosis , respectively . At both time points , 4 mg/L NAFC exposure resulted in increased ATP levels , induced mitochondrial membrane hyperpolarization , and increased apoptosis . These results suggest that mitochondrial efficiency is compromised , necessitating metabolic adaptations to maintain energy homeostasis . Given that cells exhibit metabolic flexibility that allows them to dynamically respond to changes in substrate availability , we further demonstrated that the kynurenine-tryptophan ratio ( KTR ) serves as a marker for a shift in energy metabolism under these stress conditions . This work provides a mechanistic framework for understanding how bitumen-derived organic contaminants may disrupt metabolic function in wildlife living in the AOSR . These findings further support the use of molecular markers like KTR to evaluate sub-lethal metabolic stress in environmental health monitoring . FAU - Jamshed , Laiba
BACKGROUND : Despite advances in immunotherapy , non-small-cell lung carcinoma ( NSCLC ) ' s clinical success is limited , possibly due to substantial immunological alterations in advanced cancer patients . This study examines the immunomodulatory effects of sEVs derived from lung adenocarcinoma ( ADC ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) on T cells . METHODS : SEVs were isolated from lung cancer cell lines and Jurkat-E SEV size and morphology were analyzed by NTA and TEM , respectively , while Western blotting confirmed sEV markers . SEV uptake was assessed , followed by resazurin assay , RNA isolation , quantification , cDNA preparation , RT-PCR , nano LC-MS , and bioinformatic analysis , before and after treating Jurkat-E1 cells with sEVs from A549 and SKMES RESULTS : Cancer-derived sEVs were efficiently internalized by immune cells , reducing T-cell viability . The real-time PCR analysis showed downregulation of KI67 , BCL2 , BAX , TNFA , IL6 , TGFbeta , and IL10 , suggesting reduced proliferation , dysregulated apoptosis , and impaired inflammatory and immunosuppressive signaling , and the upregulation of GZMB and IL2 suggests retained cytotoxic potential but possibly dysfunctional T-cell activation . Proteomic analysis revealed 39 differentially abundant proteins ( DAPs ) in ADC-treated T cells and 276 in SCC-treated T cells , with 19 shared DAPs . Gene Ontology ( GO ) analysis of these DAPs highlighted processes such as sEV biogenesis , metabolic pathways , and regulatory functions , with ADC sEVs influencing NAD metabolism , ECM binding , and oxidoreductase activity , while SCC sEVs affected mRNA stability , amino acid metabolism , and cadherin binding . The cytoplasmic colocalization suggests the presence of these proteins in the cellular and extracellular lumen , indicating the potential of further release of these proteins in the vesicles by T cells . CONCLUSION : Lung cancer-derived sEVs regulate T-cell activities through immunoregulatory signaling . The molecular interactions between sEVs and immune cells can reveal novel tumor immune regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic targets . FAU - Padinharayil , Hafiza
The rapid development of flexible electronic devices has promoted the dead for flexible power supplies . A flexible direct methanol fuel cell ( DMFC ) is an ideal power supply for flexible electronics because of its advantages of simple structure and high energy density . However , the performance of flexible DMFCs that have been reported is inferior to that of their traditional counterparts . In this paper , a novel flexible DMFC with ultrathin stainless steel fiber felt as the backing layer/current collector is proposed , which presents a new approach for the structural design of flexible DMFC . Moreover , combining with the homogeneous anode microporous layer composed of superhydrophilic nitrogen-doped carbon aerogel and Nafion , the novel anode gas diffusion layer based on the hydrophilic stainless steel fiber felt improves the two-phase mass transfer in the anode of DMFC , significantly enhancing the cell performance and stability . Consequently , the as-fabricated flexible DMFC achieves exceptional performance in a compact size and simple structure , with a power density reaching 6 mW cm ( -2 ) at 22 degrees C . This new flexible DMFC offers a novel pathway for the application of fuel cell . FAU - Zhang , Yujun
Well-spread pachytene chromosomes are critical for studying the location of meiotic proteins along individual chromosomes . However , producing good spreads in species with large genomes is challenging due to the tangling of pachytene chromosomes . Existing protocols often fail to achieve proper separation of large chromosomes in spreads . Here , we describe in detail an improved protocol that ensures the effective separation of large pachytene chromosomes and demonstrates its suitability for protein immunodetection . To develop the protocol , pollen mother cells at the middle-late pachytene stage from Allium fistulosum , a species with a large genome and chromosomes , were used . The protocol involved three main steps : fixing anthers in Clark ' s solution ( ethanol-acetic acid , 3 : 1 ) , digestion in an enzyme mixture , and gentle squashing in 45% acetic acid . A clear ZYP1 signal on all separated chromosomes was observed . The high quality of well-spread pachytene chromosomes obtained with the modified protocol allowed for the easy extraction of individual chromosomes for more precise detection and analysis of the proteins of interest . FAU - Kudryavtseva , Natalya
Pleural carcinomatosis ( PC ) and malignant pleural effusion ( MPE ) affect up to 20% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) and are usually synonymous with poor prognosis . Pressurized Intra-Thoracic Aerosol Chemotherapy ( PITAC ) is a novel and promising technique to control MPE in PC-NSCLC . This pilot study aimed to assess the feasibility , safety , and efficacy of PITAC in terms of palliative pleurodesis and evaluate the local antineoplastic control by analyzing patient-derived primary cell cultures . From January to December 2023 , seven patients underwent PITAC with tailored doses of cisplatin and doxorubicin . There were four males and three females , with a median age of 65 ( IQR : 19 ) years . No operating room contamination by aerosolized chemotherapeutics was observed . No intraoperative complications occurred , and 30-day mortality was nil . One patient developed a postoperative prolonged air leak . The median chest tube stay was 2 ( IQR : 2 ) days , and the median hospital stay was 4 ( IQR : 2 ) days . No systemic toxicity nor hypersensitivity to chemotherapeutics were observed . All patients developed effective pleurodesis in 30 days . Cell cultures obtained from biopsy of PC-NSCLC sampled before PITAC formed confluent and monolayer sheets of attached tumor cells , while after 30 min from PITAC , cultures exhibited a significant reduction in the cancer cells ' growth . Effective pleurodesis was observed three and six months after surgery in all patients . PITAC is a safe and effective technique to control MPE recurrence and might revolutionize loco-regional therapy for PC-NSCLC . Further research should assess its oncological role . FAU - Mastromarino , Maria Giovanna
BACKGROUND : Lafora disease ( LD ) is an ultra-rare and fatal neurodegenerative disorder with limited therapeutic options . Current treatments primarily address symptoms , with modest efficacy in halting disease progression , thus highlighting the urgent need for novel therapeutic approaches . Gene therapy , antisense oligonucleotides , and recombinant enzymes have recently been , and still are , under investigation . Drug repurposing may offer a promising approach to identify new , possibly effective , therapies . METHODS : This study aims to investigate the conditions for repurposing empagliflozin , an SGLT2 ( sodium/glucose cotransporter-2 ) inhibitor , as a potential treatment for LD and to establish a clinical protocol . Clinical phase : This 12-month prospective observational study will assess the safety and clinical efficacy of empagliflozin in two patients with early to intermediate LD stage . The primary endpoints will include changes in the severity of epilepsy and cognitive function , while the secondary endpoints will assess motor function , global function , and autonomy . Multiple clinical and instrumental evaluations ( including MRI and PET with F-fluorodeoxyglucose ) will be performed before and during treatment . Safety monitoring will include regular clinical assessments and reports of adverse events . Preclinical phase : In silico studies ( using both molecular docking calculations and reverse ligand-based screening ) and in vitro cell-based assays will allow us to investigate the effects of empagliflozin ( and other gliflozins ) on some key targets likely implicated in LD pathogenesis , such as GLUT1 , GLUT3 , glycogen synthase ( hGYS ) , and glycogen phosphorylase ( GP ) , as suggested in the literature and digital platforms for in silico target fishing . RESULTS : The expected outcome of this study is twofold , i . e . , ( i ) assessing the safety and tolerability of empagliflozin in LD patients and ( ii ) gathering preliminary data on its potential efficacy in improving clinical and neurologic features . Additionally , the in silico and in vitro studies may provide new insights into the mechanisms through which empagliflozin may exert its therapeutic effects in LD . CONCLUSION : The findings of this study are expected to provide evidence in support of the repurposing of empagliflozin for the treatment of LD . FAU - d ' Orsi , Giuseppe
Replicating in vivo conditions is essential for understanding immune responses and measuring immune biomarkers in blood . Sampling immune biomarkers in plasma or serum often fails to detect disease-relevant signals , possibly because these markers are sequestered in immune cells or extracellular vesicles . Furthermore , traditional whole blood cultures using external media may not accurately mimic the physiological environment of blood cells . To address these limitations , we developed a strategy using whole blood cell lysates and supernatants to optimize biomarker detection . Additionally , we employed neat whole blood culture methods , preserving the natural cellular and biochemical environment to assess sensitivity to immune modulators , such as lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . This cost-effective approach minimizes variability and contamination risks . By utilizing Luminex multiplex immunoassays , we profiled immune biomarkers with higher sensitivity and efficiency than traditional ELISAs . Blood samples from individuals with high alcohol consumption validated our method by assessing biomarker levels before and after LPS stimulation , providing insights into intracellular responses and inflammatory pathways . This method enhances our understanding of inflammatory processes in blood cells , demonstrating the advantages of cell lysates , supernatants , and advanced multiplex assays in immunological research . FAU - Balan , Irina
Background : Parkinson ' s Disease ( PD ) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease worldwide . Motor and non-motor symptoms of PD cause functional disabilities . Aquatic-based therapeutic exercise ( AT ) is a potential approach that may improve the management of PD , given its hydrostatic and hydrodynamic properties . We aimed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of AT compared to traditional land-based therapeutic exercise ( LT ) in patients with PD . Methods : Based on the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis ( PRISMA ) guidelines , we systematically reviewed studies indexed in PubMed , Scopus , Web of Science , PEDro , CINAHL , and Cochrane . Registered in PROSPERO ( CRD42024528310 ) , this review involved original studies published from 2014 to December 2024 , with a randomized controlled trial ( RCT ) design , in which the intervention group performed AT , and the control group performed LT . The outcomes evaluated were balance , gait , quality of life , strength , mental health , pain , flexibility , and sleep quality . Results : Of the 413 records identified , 135 duplicates were removed , and 265 did not meet the selection criteria . Thirteen RCTs comprising 511 patients ( age range : 50-80 years ) were eligible . Most studies reported beneficial effects of AT , with no serious adverse events . Compared to LT , AT led to significant improvements ( p < 05 ) in quality of life , mental health , pain , flexibility , and sleep quality . No evidence was provided of the beneficial effects of AT compared to LT on balance , gait , and strength ; however , significant improvements were observed in the AT group from baseline ( p < 05 ) . Conclusions : AT appears to be a safe and effective intervention for improving the quality of life , mental health , pain , flexibility , and sleep quality in PD patients . While balance , gait , and strength may also benefit , the evidence comparing AT to LT remains inconclusive due to variability in study protocols . FAU - Santamaria , Gema
Background : Racial discrimination experiences are associated with the activation of stress biology pathways and signs of accelerated biological aging , including alterations in DNA methylation ( DNAm ) . Coping strategies may mitigate stress from racial discrimination and protect against long-term adverse health outcomes . Methods : We conducted a secondary analysis of data from the Intergenerational Impact of Genetic and Psychological Factors on Blood Pressure cohort , an all-African-American sample , to test the hypothesis that social support can protect against accelerated biological aging associated with experiences of racial discrimination . We measured biological aging from saliva DNAm using six epigenetic clocks . Clock values were residualized on participant age and the estimated proportion of epithelial cells contributing to the DNA sample and standardized to M = 0 , SD = 1 within the analysis sample . The primary analysis was focused on the second-generation PhenoAge and GrimAge clocks and the third-generation DunedinPACE " speedometer , " which previous studies have linked with racial discrimination . Results : In our sample ( n = 234 ; mean age = 9 years ; SD = 80 ) , we found evidence consistent with our hypothesis in the case of the PhenoAge clock , but not the other clocks . Among mothers who did not seek social support , experiences of racial discrimination were associated with an older PhenoAge ( b = 26 , 95% CI = 02-50 , p = 03 ) . However , social-support seeking mitigated this risk ; at the highest levels of social support , no adverse consequences of discrimination were observed ( interaction b = -01 , 95% CI = -02--00 , p = 03 ) . Conclusions : The replication of results is needed . Future research should also investigate additional adaptive and maladaptive coping strategies utilized by African American women and mothers to identify protective measures that influence health outcomes . FAU - Nyembwe , Alexandria
BACKGROUND : Previous evidence demonstrated DNA methylation changes in response to stress in plants , showing rapid changes within a limited time frame . Exposure to self-DNA inhibits seedling root elongation , and it was shown that it causes changes in CG DNA methylation in Lactuca sativa . We assessed cytosine methylation changes and associated gene expression patterns in roots of Arabidopsis thaliana Col-0 seedlings exposed to self-DNA for 6 and 24 h . METHODS : We used whole genome bisulfite sequencing ( WGBS ) and RNA-seq analyses to assess genomic cytosine methylation and corresponding gene expression , respectively , on DNA and RNA extracted with commercial kits from roots exposed to self-DNA by an original setup . Fifteen hundred roots replicates , including the control in distilled water , were collected after exposure . Sequencing was performed on a NovaSeq 6000 platform and Ultralow Methyl-Seq System for RNA and DNA WGBS , respectively . RESULTS : Gene expression in roots exposed to self-DNA differed from that of untreated controls , with a total of 305 genes differentially expressed and 87 ontologies enriched in at least one treatment vs . control comparison , and particularly after 24 h of exposure . DNA methylation , particularly in CHG and CHH contexts , was also different , with hyper- and hypomethylation prevailing in treatments vs . controls at 6 h and 24 h , respectively . Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) analysis , Gene Ontology ( GO ) enrichment analysis , and differentially methylated regions ( DMRs ) analysis , provided an integrated understanding of the changes associated with self-DNA exposure . Our results suggest differential gene expression associated with DNA methylation in response to self-DNA exposure in A . thaliana roots , enhanced after prolonged exposure . CONCLUSIONS : Main functional indications of association between DNA methylation and gene expression involved hypomethylation and downregulation of genes related to nucleotide/nucleoside metabolism ( ATP synthase subunit ) and cell wall structure ( XyG synthase ) , consistent with previous observations from metabolomics and physiological studies . Further confirmation of these findings will contribute to improving our understanding of the plant molecular response to self-DNA and its implications in stress responses . FAU - Ronchi , Alessia
BACKGROUND : Male germline stem cells are relevant for stem cell researchers but also for andrologists as they are crucial for testis function and initiation/maintenance of spermatogenesis . They are also considered a target for fertility preservation in the male ; e . g . germ cell transplantation or testicular grafting rely on spermatogonial stem cells ( SSCs ) and may soon become clinical tools to recover fertility . In the current review , we report new insights into genesis of spermatogonia , germline plasticity , and models of spermatogonial expansion . These insights and an array of novel cellular and molecular tools have provided great technological advances and new knowledge and therefore the field of SSCs needs an up-to-date review . OBJECTIVE : In this review , we focus on the male germline starting with pluripotent precursors and ending with sperm . The recent discoveries on mechanisms and cellular events involved in the derivation of SSCs are highlighted . We summarize all information on clonal expansion of SSCs in several species . We revisit old models and formulate novel models for the initial phases of spermatogenesis considering species-specific differences . Specifically , the human situation will be presented , informing the reader on many primate-specific features ( i . e . the existence of self-renewing progenitors , limited premeiotic mitotic steps , and small clonal sizes ) . This review is important as the current view on spermatogonia in the human testis needs an update taking in novel and unexpected findings derived from studies using new technologies , such as microfluidics , single-cell analysis , and xenografting . These findings also require re-interpretations of previously published results and models for spermatogonial function . SEARCH METHODS : We used PubMed and other relevant databases to reveal all available information . Search terms were flexibly combined . Baseline search terms were : spermatogonia/testis/stem cell/mitotic expansion/clone/primate/human/spermatogenesis/meiotic entry/germ cell niche/sperm production/spermatogenic efficiency . OUTCOMES : Spermatogenesis in men relies on a stem cell system which is highly distinct from that of rodents . Derivation of spermatogonia from pluripotent precursors has been explored in approaches using embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells leading to novel concepts which are highlighted . The testis is populated with five subpopulations of premeiotic germ cells with specific tasks and functions . We will specifically focus on these features in this review . Based on the internal or external stimuli received from the microenvironment through underlying signalling and regulatory networks , subpopulations may show diverse responses . The high plasticity and variable potency of spermatogonial populations may play an important and distinct role during normal or aberrant germline developments alike . SSC models are helpful tools to understand the rigorous checkpoints maintaining germline quality at pre-meiotic and meiotic stages . Evidence from calculated spermatogonial ratios for various species indicates that clonal expansion rates are slower in higher primates like macaques and humans . In contrast , clonal expansion takes place at a faster rate in small animals like rodents . The consequences of these species-specific differences in germline development are discussed . Further options for future clinical applications and new therapies are also discussed in this review . WIDER IMPLICATIONS : Our revised understanding of the SSCs and their somatic niches creates a novel view on the causes of male infertility and may open strategies not only for curative actions but also for fertility preservation and ex vivo strategies to generate spermatozoa .
In eukaryotic cells , communication between organelles and the coordination of their activities depend on membrane contact sites ( MCS ) . How MCS are regulated under the dynamic cellular environment remains poorly understood . Here , we investigate how Pex30 , a membrane protein localized to the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , regulates multiple MCS in budding yeast . We show that Pex30 is critical for the integrity of ER MCS with peroxisomes and vacuoles . This requires the dysferlin ( DysF ) domain on the Pex30 cytosolic tail . This domain binds to phosphatidic acid ( PA ) both in vitro and in silico , and it is important for normal PA metabolism in vivo . The DysF domain is evolutionarily conserved and may play a general role in PA homeostasis across eukaryotes . We further show that the ER-vacuole MCS requires a Pex30 C-terminal domain of unknown function and that its activity is controlled by phosphorylation in response to metabolic cues . These findings provide new insights into the dynamic nature of MCS and their coordination with cellular metabolism .
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) are ubiquitous neutral lipid storage organelles that form at discrete subdomains in the ER bilayer . The assembly of these ER subdomains and the mechanism by which proteins are recruited to them is poorly understood . Here , we investigate the spatiotemporal distribution of Pex30 at the ER-LD membrane contact sites ( MCSs ) . Pex30 , an ER membrane-shaping protein , has a reticulon homology domain , a dysferlin ( DysF ) domain , and a Duf4196 domain . Deletion of SEI1 , which codes for seipin , a highly conserved protein required for LD biogenesis , results in accumulation of Pex30 and phosphatidic acid ( PA ) at ER-LD contact sites . We show that PA recruits Pex30 at ER subdomains by binding to the DysF domain . The distribution of Pex30 as well as PA is also affected by phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) levels . We propose that PA regulates the spatiotemporal distribution of Pex30 at ER subdomains that plays a critical role in driving the formation of LDs in the ER membrane .
Ocular surface inflammation and injury often lead to fibrosis and impaired vision . Myofibroblasts directly promote fibrosis by producing excessive extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins and alpha-smooth muscle actin ( a-SMA ) . In addition , macrophages have been shown to promote fibrosis by secreting pro-fibrotic factors to stimulate myofibroblast formation . However , the capacity of macrophages to directly remodel ECM remains understudied . This study utilized a mouse model of corneal injury and fibrosis to determine whether macrophages transform into myofibroblast-like cells during ocular surface inflammation . Following injury , F4/80 + a-SMA+ macrophages were present at the early stages of wound healing and increased in frequency and a-SMA intensity during the remodeling stage . The increase in F4/80 + a-SMA+ macrophages occurred due to the microenvironment transitioning from an inflammatory state to a pro-fibrotic state . Activated human and mouse macrophages treated with pro-fibrotic cytokines ( IL-10 and TGF-beta1 ) transitioned to a-SMA+ macrophages , adopting a spindle-like phenotype and expressing signature myofibroblast ECM and cytoskeletal components , including a-SMA , desmin , fibronectin , and collagen III . Furthermore , gel contraction assays showed a-SMA+ macrophages significantly contracted a collagen gel , making them functionally resemble myofibroblasts . The results of this study indicate that macrophages have the capacity to transdifferentiate into myofibroblasts during ocular surface inflammation .
We describe the construction of a flow-through analyzer with a mechanical fluidic control system that allows individual particles such as beads or cells to be trapped repeatedly for optical analysis . This instrument allows long measurements of particles sampled from rapid flow and can be used to determine contributions to measurement variance and individuate environmental perturbations on single cells . The demonstration system described here includes basic detection channels for forward-scattered light and fluorescence , a pinch-valve based trap , a mechanism for controlling the position of trapped particles , and a holding loop for long-duration studies of single particles . It can operate in a flow-cytometer mode and in modes that resample particles over periods of seconds to minutes . The system is capable of flow rates of 10 ml min-1 , making it especially useful for studies of rare particles , and its cost effectiveness could allow for multiple units to operate in parallel to sample higher volumes .
Spatial omics technologies , generating high-throughput and multimodal data , have necessitated the development of advanced data integration methods to facilitate comprehensive biological and clinical treatment discoveries . Based on the cross-attention concept , we developed an AI learning based toolchain called StereoMM , a graph based fusion model that can incorporate omics data such as gene expression , histological images , and spatial location . StereoMM uses an attention module for omics data interaction and a graph autoencoder to integrate spatial positions and omics data in a self-supervised manner . Applying StereoMM across various cancer types and platforms has demonstrated its robust capability . StereoMM outperforms competitors in identifying spatial regions reflecting tumour progression and shows promise in classifying colorectal cancer patients into deficient mismatch repair and proficient mismatch repair groups . The comprehensive inter-modal integration and efficiency of StereoMM enable researchers to construct spatial views of integrated multimodal features efficiently , advancing thorough tissue and patient characterization .
The advanced single-microbe RNA sequencing ( smRNA-seq ) technique addresses the pressing need to understand the complexity and diversity of microbial communities , as well as the distinct microbial states defined by different gene expression profiles . Current analyses of smRNA-seq data heavily rely on the integrity of reference genomes within the queried microbiota . However , establishing a comprehensive collection of microbial reference genomes or gene sets remains a significant challenge for most real-world microbial ecosystems . Here , we developed an unbiased embedding algorithm utilizing K-mer signatures , named mKmer , which bypasses gene or genome alignment to enable species identification for individual microbes and downstream functional enrichment analysis . By substituting gene features in the canonical cell-by-gene matrix with highly conserved K-mers , we demonstrate that mKmer outperforms gene-based methods in clustering and motif inference tasks using benchmark datasets from crop soil and human gut microbiomes . Our method provides a reference genome-free analytical framework for advancing smRNA-seq studies .
More than half of patients with plasma cell myeloma ( PCM ) relapse after treatment and require novel therapies . Venetoclax , a highly specific and effective oral BCL2 inhibitor , has a favorable risk-benefit ratio for PCM patients with t ( 11 ; 14 ) /IGH : : CCND Standard of care for new or relapsed cases of PCM incorporates fluorescence in situ hybridization ( FISH ) analysis for the detection of IGH : : CCND However , FISH requires a high-quality bone marrow ( BM ) aspirate sample and plasma cell ( PC ) purification . Immunohistochemical ( IHC ) staining to detect overexpressed cyclin D1 protein resulting from IGH : : CCND1 is lower cost , more widely available , and has a faster turnaround time than FISH . However , a predictive cyclin D1 IHC cutoff has yet to be established for correlation with IGH : : CCND We evaluated a testing cohort of 85 BM biopsy cases diagnosed as PCM with adequate core biopsies and corresponding myeloma FISH results ( 43 fusion positive and 42 fusion negative ) to develop a multitiered classification system for cyclin D1 IHC expression in plasma cell myeloma that can predict IGH : : CCND1 fusion status with high confidence in the majority of cases . Using H-score to predict fusion status yielded positive and negative predictive values of 97% and 100% , respectively . A validation cohort consisting of 50 additional cases ( 24 fusion negative and 26 fusion positive ) had 93% positive and 100% negative predictive values for fusion status . We find that cyclin D1 IHC has high concordance with FISH for IGH : : CCND1 fusion status and is a valuable alternative when FISH is suboptimal or unavailable .
Membrane vesicles ( MVs ) released from bacteria into the extracellular environment play various roles in bacterial and bacterial-host interactions . In Gram-positive bacteria , cell wall degradation or damage is crucial for cytoplasmic MV ( CMV ) release because the cytoplasmic membrane must pass through the thick cell wall to the extracellular space . Although Streptococcus mutans , a major causative agent of dental caries , is known to release CMVs that are involved in pathogenicity and biofilm formation , the mechanism by which CMV production is triggered is unknown . In this study , we demonstrate that S . mutans induces CMV release via the Com system , a cell-to-cell communication system mediated by peptide signals . CMV release is primarily dependent on autolysin encoded by lytF , which is regulated by the Com system . Electron microscopy observations indicated that CMV release was accompanied by cell death in a subpopulation of cells . We compared the protein profiles of CMVs , showing that CMVs induced via the Com system contained not only secreted proteins but also cytoplasmic proteins specifically expressed during Com system activation . We further demonstrate that the functionality of CMVs in biofilm formation differed depending on how they were induced . IMPORTANCEBacteria release membrane vesicles ( MVs ) that are involved in diverse biological processes such as cell-to-cell communication and also affect the bacterial host through their immunomodulatory activity . Recent studies have focused on elucidating the mechanisms underlying MV formation . In Gram-positive bacteria , it has been shown that cell death represents a major pathway for MV formation . Since cell death would not benefit the dying cell , but may provide benefit to the remaining cells , it is essential to understand the regulatory mechanisms governing the formation of MVs at the population level . Here , we show that MV formation in Streptococcus mutans is regulated by cell-to-cell communication . A subpopulation of cells triggers cell death-meditated MV formation , from which the remaining cells derive benefits . This is the first report showing cell-to-cell communication regulates MV formation in Gram-positive bacteria that would provide insights into the regulatory mechanisms governing cell death-mediated MV formation at the population level . FAU - Nagasawa , Ryo
Bacterial contractile injection systems ( CISs ) have evolved as sophisticated mechanisms that enable bacteria to interact with and manipulate their hosts . Resembling bacteriophage tails , these systems inject effector proteins directly into target cells , facilitating complex bacterial-host interactions . Despite significant advances in understanding CISs , exploration has largely been constrained by the availability of completely sequenced microbial genomes , potentially underrepresenting their diversity in natural environments . In this study , we identified 1 , 129 CISs from metagenome-assembled genomes spanning 14 bacterial phyla and 1 archaeal phylum . Notably , CISs were identified in many uncultured microorganisms and were highly enriched in the phylum Bacteroidota . Structural gene composition varied across ecosystems , with Bacteroidetes injection systems ( BISs ) from the human digestive system lacking typical tail fiber proteins and Cis However , all BISs encoded homologs of Aasi_0556 , suggesting functional similarities with T6SS ( iv ) . Furthermore , we identified a candidate CIS cargo protein , BDI_2459 , containing the toxin-associated DUF4157 domain , which exhibited moderate toxin potential . We cloned and heterologously expressed BDI_2459 in Escherichia coli . The standalone BDI_2459 did not exhibit its activity . However , there was activity when fused with a periplasmic translocation tag . IMPORTANCE : Overall , this study expands our understanding of the ecological diversity , evolutionary adaptations , and functional roles of contractile injection systems ( CISs ) in microbial communities . The findings particularly highlight their adaptations to human-associated microbiomes . In addition , we conducted preliminary functional studies targeting the cargo protein BDI_2459 in CIS from Parabacteroides distasonis ( CIS ( Pd ) ) . These results provide new insights into CIS-mediated bacterial interactions and pave the way for future microbiome engineering and antibacterial strategies . FAU - Li , Shang
In all living cells , molecular chaperones and ATP-dependent proteases are essential for protein homeostasis . The ClpXP protease is a chaperone-protease complex conserved between bacteria and mitochondria . Proteolytic activity resides in the caseinolytic protease ( ClpP ) subunits that associate to form a tetradecameric serine protease that degrades substrates recognized and unfolded by the ClpX ATPase . In the important human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae ( Spn ) , ClpX but not ClpP was proposed to be essential for viability . We here follow up on this finding by characterizing phenotypes associated with depriving S . pneumoniae D39V of ClpX unfoldase or ClpXP activity . Virulence was examined in the Galleria melonella infection model and was found to be severely attenuated for both mutants , suggesting that ClpXP is essential for virulence . Inactivation of ClpXP also resulted in elevated extracellular levels of LytA and early onset of LytA-dependent autolysis , aberrant localization of teichoic acids , and diminished cell size , while depletion of ClpX resulted in defective division septa , heterogeneous cell sizes , elongated cell chains , and cell lysis . Accordingly , proteomic analysis revealed that ClpXP directly or indirectly controls proteins involved in teichoic acid synthesis and cell division and elongation . In summary , we show that ClpX alone and in complex with ClpP control critical processes such as virulence and cell division . IMPORTANCEThe human nose is colonized by the opportunistic pathogenic bacterium Spn , a leading cause of community-acquired pneumonia and a common cause of meningitis and sepsis . In Spn , the highly conserved ClpP protease is essential for virulence , and we here show that ClpP controls virulence through associating with the ClpX unfoldase . The essentiality of Spn ClpX has hampered its characterization . By constructing Spn mutants expressing a variant of ClpX that cannot interact with ClpP , we further show that the ClpXP protease controls vital processes such as cell size and autolytic activity . Depletion of ClpX resulted in even more severe phenotypes , suggesting that ClpX unfoldase activity independently of ClpP plays a more fundamental role in coordinating cell division and cell elongation . In summary , the presented work adds to our understanding of how a highly conserved chaperone-protease complex contributes to the growth and pathogenicity of a prominent bacterial pathogen . FAU - Mebus , Viktor H
Antimicrobial blue light ( aBL ; 405 nm ) can reduce the viability of multiple bacteria , but there are few reports comparing the susceptibility of foodborne bacteria when exposed to similar conditions . This study was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of aBL against foodborne pathogens and spoilage bacteria when treated in liquid media and on different surfaces . Cocktails of Listeria , Salmonella , Escherichia , Pseudomonas , Cronobacter , Lactobacillus , and Staphylococcus were incubated in tryptic soy broth ( TSB ) and phosphate-buffered saline ( PBS ) , as well as on stainless steel ( SS ) coupons , avocados , and cherry tomatoes as dried cells . Reductions in cell viability were determined after exposure to 405 nm aBL at two temperatures . aBL doses for liquid , SS coupons , and fruits were 1 , 512 , 1 , 739 , and 1 , 944 J/cm , respectively . Microbiological counts were determined using standard complex media , and Analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) was used to determine significant differences ( P < 05 ) . The viability of Pseudomonas in PBS was reduced by more than 8 Log CFU/mL of aBL exposure , but the reduction of other bacteria was less than 4 Log CFU/mL . In TSB , more than 5 Log CFU/mL were inactivated in all genera . Reductions in viable Cronobacter and Salmonella dried cells on SS coupons were less than 2 Log CFU/coupon . Treatment of cells on avocados resulted in small reductions of Cronobacter and Salmonella ( <5 Log CFU/skin spot ) at 20 degrees C compared to other species . These findings suggest that the susceptibility of different bacterial genera may be quite variable in response to aBL treatment , and these differences should be considered for potential applications . IMPORTANCEReady-to-eat ( RTE ) foods have been associated with multiple outbreaks caused by foodborne pathogens . While the safety of many RTE foods such as fresh produce relies on traditional cleaning and sanitation systems , they are often insufficient to keep bacteria off food-contact surfaces within the processing and packing environment . Antimicrobial blue light ( aBL ) in the range of 400-470 nm of wavelength may be a promising disinfectant alternative . However , more comprehensive studies are needed to better assess the effectiveness of aBL against a wide range of foodborne pathogens and spoilage . Such research could provide valuable insights into aBL ' s potential as a crucial tool for ensuring food safety . FAU - Hur , Minji
Abundance of essential components of double-stranded RNA ( dsRNA ) recognition and the subsequent interferon ( IFN ) response vary widely between primary human hepatocytes ( PHHs ) and commonly used cell culture models based on derivatives of Huh7 cells , supporting replication of all hepatitis viruses . We used RNA sequencing to compare the innate immune response in hepatoma cells with primary cells and non-neoplastic immortalized hepatocytes ( PH5CH ) . Stimulation with the dsRNA analog poly ( I : C ) in Huh7 and Huh5 , either by supernatant feeding or by transfection , resulted in an induction of interferon-stimulated genes widely comparable to that of PHH and PH5CH , but Huh7 and Huh5 lacked efficient production of IFN-beta . We identified interferon regulatory factor 7 ( IRF7 ) as a critical component missing in Huh7-derived cells . Upon reconstitution of IRF7 expression , IFNB induction was restored to the levels observed in PHH upon stimulation with poly ( I : C ) . In contrast to PH5CH cells , for which IRF3 was sufficient for full IFN induction , the lack of IRF7 could not be compensated by increased IRF3 expression in Huh7-derived cells . We further found significant IFNB induction upon Sendai virus and hepatitis delta virus infections in Huh5 cells reconstituted with IRF7 , but not in hepatitis A or hepatitis C virus-infected cells , widely representing the characteristics of the IFN response observed in other models and in vivo . Our data suggest that the reconstitution of IRF7 expression in Huh7 cells can aid a more physiological analysis of cell intrinsic immune responses to hepatotropic viruses in future studies . IMPORTANCECurrent in vitro studies often rely on Huh7-based hepatoma cells , which , although permissive for hepatitis viruses , lack critical components for double-stranded RNA recognition . We used RNA sequencing to compare the cell intrinsic innate immune responses of hepatoma cells with more authentic cellular models . We discovered that Huh7-derived cells , which are known to show very limited induction of IFNB upon pathogen recognition receptor stimulation , lack expression of interferon regulatory factor 7 ( IRF7 ) , an essential component for robust type I interferon induction . By reconstituting IRF7 , we were able to restore the interferon response to levels observed in primary human hepatocytes . Our study not only identifies a key missing link in the Huh7/Huh5 innate immune response but also offers a way to enhance the physiological relevance of these cells in future studies . Our findings pave the way for more accurate modeling of the human hepatic response to viral infections , potentially improving the understanding and management of hepatitis . FAU - Betz , Andreas
O-GlcNAcylation , a post-translational modification consisting of O-linked N-acetylglucosamine attached to serine and threonine residues , occurs in thousands of cytoplasmic , nuclear , and mitochondrial proteins but has been reported for relatively few viral proteins . We used click chemistry , specific antibodies , and mass spectrometry to investigate the O-GlcNAcylation of vaccinia virus ( VACV ) proteins . A virion protein of ~40 kDa was identified by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis following azide-alkyne cycloaddition of biotin or an infrared dye to O-GlcNAc residues . Candidate O-GlcNAc virion proteins were detected by mass spectrometry , and A4 , a highly conserved core component required for virion assembly , was identified by decreased electrophoretic mobility resulting from the specific attachment of multiple 10 kDa polyethylene glycol residues to O-GlcNAc sites . O-GlcNAc was not detected in virions of an A4 deletion mutant , suggesting A4 is the only or major constituent with this modification . Multiple O-GlcNAc modified amino acids in intrinsically disordered regions of A4 were identified by electron transfer dissociation mass spectrometry . Recombinant A4 was O-GlcNAcylated following stable and transient transfection of uninfected cell lines , suggesting a role for a cellular enzyme , which was confirmed by reduction of the modification by specific inhibitors of O-GlcNAc transferase during virus infection . Moreover , induced degradation of O-GlcNAc transferase prior to VACV infection decreased O-GlcNAcylation of A4 to undetectable levels without diminishing the A4 abundance . Nevertheless , the specific infectivity of O-GlcNAc-deficient virus particles was unimpaired . O-GlcNAcylation either has a subtle role in the VACV life cycle , or A4 is an inadvertent substrate of the promiscuous O-GlcNAc transferase . IMPORTANCEO-GlcNAc is a reversible enzymatic post-translational modification of serine and threonine residues found on thousands of cellular proteins with roles in regulating numerous functions including signal transduction , transcription , and stress response . However , little is known about O-GlcNAc modifications of viral proteins . Here , we report that the vaccinia virus A4 core protein has multiple O-GlcNAc modifications . The cellular O-GlcNAc transferase was shown to be required for modifying the vaccinia virus protein , which is synthesized and assembled into virus particles within cytoplasmic virus factories . Moreover , inhibition and degradation of the transferase prevented O-GlcNAcylation of A Nevertheless , virus assembly and replication in vitro were unaffected by the absence of the modification , suggesting that the addition of O-GlcNAc to A4 has a subtle role or that the modification is a byproduct of a promiscuous O-GlcNAc transferase that preferentially modifies intrinsically disordered regions of proteins . FAU - Zhang , Yunliang
Viruses pose significant threats to global public health and have substantial socio-economic impacts . Developing rapid , sensitive and specific in situ virus detection technologies is crucial for tracking viral genome release , replication in host cells , and intercellular transmission , thus holding great promise in understanding viral infection mechanisms , enabling early diagnosis , screening antiviral drugs , and formulating prevention and treatment strategies . In this study , we present a multifunctional tetrahedral DNA nanostructure ( TDN ) -based system designed to monitor viral RNA levels in host cells in situ . The system employs a TDN-based hyperbranched catalytic hairpin assembly ( CHA ) reaction to achieve rapid and powerful signal amplification , generating specific fluorescence resonance energy transfer ( FRET ) signals in response to target viral RNA . Using Japanese encephalitis virus ( JEV ) as a model , we developed the THA@JEV system responding to JEV-RNA . This system demonstrated rapid and sensitive detection of JEV-RNA within 12 min in a cell-free environment , enabling real-time imaging of JEV-RNA in situ within host cells . The integrated TDN structure enhanced the biological stability of the probes and ensured their reliability under various stress conditions and microenvironments . This TDN-based sensor system shows significant potential for elucidating viral infection pathways and advancing related virology research , as well as for screening antiviral drugs .
Microbial biosynthesis of aromatic compounds offers significant advantages over petrochemical methods , which rely on fossil fuels and high energy inputs . Microbial fermentations occur at room temperature and ambient pressure , reducing carbon emissions and energy consumption by up to 90% . Genetic engineering of microbial chassis is key to optimizing biosynthetic processes , enabling efficient production of aromatic compounds from sugars . However , the intrinsic toxicity of these compounds presents challenges . Pseudomonas putida DOT-T1E , known for its tolerance to solvents , is ideal for producing toxic compounds . Styrene biosynthesis involves converting phenylalanine into trans-cinnamate via phenylalanine ammonia lyase enzymes , followed by decarboxylation to styrene . This second step is challenging , as trans-cinnamate decarboxylases have only been described in fungi . PSC1 , a consensus protein designed from multiple alignments of fungal ferulate decarboxylases , enables styrene production in Pseudomonas . PSC1 is a globular dimer with a molecular mass of 7 kDa , high thermal stability ( T ( m ) 63 degrees C ) , and activity at temperatures up to 50 degrees C . The crystal structure of PSC1 , determined at 1 A , reveals a homodimer with three domains per monomer . A hydrophobic pocket in domain 2 , essential for cofactor and substrate binding , was identified . Mutagenesis shows that Arg175 , Glu280 , and Glu285 are critical for catalysis , as replacing them with alanine abolished the decarboxylation . IMPORTANCEThe petrochemical industry is highly polluting due to its use of extremely high temperatures , high pressure , and toxic catalysts . Synthetic biology offers an alternative by enabling the production of many chemicals through cell factories that operate at room temperature and ambient pressure , potentially reducing CO emissions by up to 90% . We have engineered a solvent-tolerant Pseudomonas strain to produce styrene from L-phenylalanine in a two-step process . For the second step , we designed a de novo consensus protein that operates efficiently . In this study , we present its physico-chemical properties and unveil its 3D structure . FAU - Garcia-Franco , Ana
A Chlamydia muridarum mutant designated as intrOv was evaluated as an intracellular oral vaccine vector because it can induce protection in the genital tract following oral inoculation but does not elicit genital pathology following intravaginal infection . However , the mechanism of intrOv ' s attenuation is unclear . Here , we report that few live organisms were recovered from vaginal swabs during the early stage of intrOv intravaginal infection in mice . At a low inoculating dose , an isogenic wild-type control strain established a productive infection , while intrOv failed to do so . Although a higher inoculating dose allowed intrOv and its control to productively infect mice , fewer live intrOv than the control organisms were recovered from the lower genital tract tissues on day 3 post-infection . By day 7 , animals infected with intrOv or the control shed similar numbers of live organisms , suggesting that intrOv ' s deficiency on day 3 was transient . Consistently , intrOv reduced invasion of epithelial cells but maintained as robust intracellular replication as its control . Our results correlate intrOv ' s delay in infecting the lower genital tissues and reduction in invading epithelial cells with its attenuation in genital pathogenicity , laying the foundation for further revealing the mechanisms of intrOv ' s attenuation in pathogenicity during genital tract infection . FAU - Li , Caiting
The H5N6 avian influenza virus , a highly pathogenic strain , poses a significant threat to poultry production and public health . The RNA-dependent RNA polymerase ( comprising PB1 , PB2 , and PA proteins ) and nucleoprotein of highly pathogenic avian influenza viruses interact with avian host proteins , influencing the efficiency of viral RNA synthesis and severity of infection . To comprehensively understand how H5N6 avian influenza virus interfaces with host cellular mechanisms during infection and replication , it is essential to identify which host proteins physically associate with viral polymerase proteins . In this study , affinity purification mass spectrometry was used to identify physical interactions between H5N6-JX polymerase proteins ( PB1 , PB2 , PA , and nucleoprotein ) and host proteins in chicken DF-1 cells . We identified 455 H5N6-chicken interacting proteins and successfully cloned 231 of these genes . Overexpression experiments revealed several host proteins involved in viral replication in DF-1 cells . Specifically , nine host genes were found to promote avian influenza virus proliferation , whereas 20 inhibited it . Furthermore , we demonstrated that avian NUP93 interacts with the viral PB1 protein , enhancing polymerase transcriptional activity and promoting viral proliferation . These findings provide a more comprehensive understanding of how host mechanisms are manipulated during H5N6 avian influenza viral infection and replication , providing insights into the mechanisms of avian influenza virus cross-species transmission . IMPORTANCEThe RNA-dependent interaction of RNA polymerase with avian host protein determines the efficiency of viral RNA synthesis and the severity of infection . However , the strain-specific interactions of the avian influenza virus ( AIV ) remain unclear . In this study , we identified 455 H5N6-chicken interacting proteins and successfully cloned 231 of them . Nine host genes that promote the proliferation of avian influenza virus and 20 host genes that inhibit the proliferation of avian influenza virus were identified through overexpression experiments . In addition , we demonstrated that avian NUP93 interacts with viral PB1 protein to enhance polymerase transcriptional activity and promote viral proliferation . This study contributes to a more comprehensive and detailed understanding of the molecular mechanisms of host utilization during the H5N6 highly pathogenic avian influenza virus infection and replication . FAU - Cao , Lei
beta-Coronaviruses assemble at the endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi compartment and exit cells through the lysosomal trafficking pathway . However , the molecular mechanisms of virion assembly and egress are largely unknown . Here , we report that beta-coronaviruses recruit endosomal sorting complexes required for transport ( ESCRTs ) to facilitate virion assembly and egress . The viral proteins N and M interacted with ESCRT components TSG101 and VPS28 , respectively . Electron microscopy analysis revealed that virion assembly was disrupted by TSG101 knockdown at an early stage and by VPS28 knockdown at a late stage . Knockdown of ESCRT components MVB12A and CHMP6 did not affect virion assembly but inhibited virion egress . Downregulation of these ESCRT factors or VPS4A , or treatment of cells with the TSG101 antagonist tenatoprazole significantly inhibited the production of the virion-like particles of beta-coronaviruses and the replication of human coronavirus OC These findings indicate that beta-coronaviruses exploit ESCRT for virion assembly and egress and suggest that the interaction interface between ESCRT and the viruses could be a target for the development of broad-spectrum anti-coronavirus therapeutics . IMPORTANCEbeta-Coronaviruses have caused disastrous pandemics and may cause serious pandemics in the future . Virion assembly and egress are critical steps in the life cycle of coronaviruses . However , despite extensive studies in the past few years , the molecular mechanisms for virion assembly and egress are still largely unknown . Here we show that beta-coronaviruses recruit ESCRT components TSG101 and VPS28 for virion assembly and that ESCRT components MVB12A and CHMP6 are required for virion egress . Treatment of cells with the TSG101 antagonist inhibited the assembly of multiple beta-coronaviruses . These findings indicate that ESCRT participates in beta-coronavirus assembly and egress and might be a potential target for the development of broad-spectrum anti-coronavirus therapeutics . FAU - Zhang , Yuanyuan
Trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas disease , a zoonotic infectious disease considered a leading cause of cardiomyopathy , disability , and premature death in the Americas . This parasite spends its life between a mammalian host and an arthropod vector , undergoing essential transitions among different developmental forms . How T . cruzi senses microenvironmental changes that trigger cellular responses necessary for parasite survival has remained largely unknown . Cyclic AMP ( cAMP ) is a universal second messenger that has been shown to regulate key cellular processes in trypanosomes , in which cAMP response proteins ( CARPs ) have been proposed to be modulators or effectors of a PKA-independent signaling pathway . In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of TcCARP3 in cAMP signaling throughout the T . cruzi life cycle . Our results show that TcCARP3 shares a dual localization ( flagellar tip and contractile vacuole complex ) with adenylate cyclase 1 ( TcAC1 ) in the main developmental stages of the parasite . We also found that TcCARP3 directly interacts with several TcACs , modulating the intracellular content of cAMP . Through generation of TcCARP3 knockout , addback , and overexpression cell lines , we showed that modulation of gene expression affects the parasite ' s ability to differentiate , respond to osmotic stress , invade mammalian cells and replicate within them , and colonize the hindgut of the triatomine vector . In addition , we identified several signaling proteins interacting with TcCARP3 in what we propose are cAMP signaling microdomains . Our results unveil a key role for TcCARP3 as a modulator of cAMP signals necessary for parasite differentiation and survival throughout the T . cruzi life cycle . IMPORTANCECyclic AMP ( cAMP ) signaling pathways are poorly understood in the stercorarian parasite Trypanosoma cruzi . Specifically , the mechanisms driving the activation of TcACs in response to microenvironmental stress are completely unknown . This study unveils the role of TcCARP3 in modulating the content of cAMP through the interaction with several TcACs and putative cAMP effectors in T . cruzi . Particularly , TcCARP3 interacts with TcAC1 in the main developmental stages of this parasite ' s life cycle , where both proteins display a dual localization pattern . These results provide new evidence supporting the compartmentalization of cAMP signals in trypanosomes . Moreover , our data unequivocally demonstrates that TcCARP3 is required for essential cellular processes , such as response to osmotic stress , host cell invasion , intracellular replication , and the ability to colonize the hindgut of the triatomine vector . In summary , we found that TcCARP3 is an adenylate cyclase interactor that modulates cAMP signals necessary for the life cycle progression of T . cruzi . FAU - Carlson , Joshua
Merkel cell carcinoma ( MCC ) is a highly aggressive neuroendocrine skin cancer often driven by the integration of Merkel cell polyomavirus ( MCPyV ) into the host genome and the persistent expression of its viral oncoproteins , small tumor ( ST ) antigen , and truncated large tumor ( t-LT ) antigen . While human fibroblasts support MCPyV replication , the cell of origin for MCC remains unknown . We hypothesized that MCPyV initially replicates in fibroblasts but , in rare cases , infects Merkel cell progenitors , contributing to MCC development . Using TurboID mass spectrometry , we identified delta-catenin as a novel ST interactor in fibroblasts . However , while ST binds delta-catenin in fibroblasts , this interaction is absent in virus-positive ( VP ) -MCC cell lines . Despite this , delta-catenin is essential for VP-MCC , but not for fibroblast cell proliferation . We found that fibroblasts predominantly express delta-catenin isoform 1 , whereas VP-MCC cells mainly express isoform Overexpression of isoform 1 in VP-MCC failed to restore ST binding . delta-Catenin promotes VP-MCC proliferation by regulating cell cycle gene expression through its interaction with Kaiso , a transcriptional repressor . Additionally , we found that lysine-specific histone demethylase 1 ( LSD1 , also known as KDM1A ) regulates delta-catenin isoform 3 expression by modulating ESRP1 , a delta-catenin splicing factor . Our findings reveal novel host factors involved in MCPyV infection and MCC tumorigenesis , suggesting that the host cell supporting viral replication and the MCC cell of origin may be distinct cell types . IMPORTANCEMerkel cell polyomavirus ( MCPyV ) , the only known human oncogenic polyomavirus , is the primary cause of Merkel cell carcinoma ( MCC ) , a rare and aggressive type of skin cancer . MCC is driven by two viral proteins : small T ( ST ) and large T ( LT ) . While the virus can replicate in skin fibroblasts , it is still unknown which type of skin cell becomes cancerous . We found that ST binds to a host protein , delta-catenin in fibroblasts , potentially playing a role in the virus lifecycle , but this interaction is missing in the cancer cells . Our study provides evidence that the cells in which the virus replicates and causes cancer are different . FAU - Landazuri Vinueza , Joselyn
Bacillus anthracis , a Gram-positive facultative anaerobe and the causative agent of anthrax , multiplies to extraordinarily high numbers in vertebrate blood , resulting in considerable heme exposure . Heme is an essential nutrient and the preferred iron source for bacteria during vertebrate colonization , but its high redox potential makes it toxic in excess . To regulate heme homeostasis , many Gram-positive bacteria , including B . anthracis , rely on the two-component signaling system HssRS . HssRS comprises the heme sensing histidine kinase HssS , which modulates the activity of the HssR transcription factor to enable bacteria to circumvent heme toxicity . However , the regulation of the HssRS system remains unclear . Here , we identify FapR , the transcriptional regulator of fatty acid biosynthesis , as a key factor in HssRS function . FapR plays an important role in maintaining membrane integrity and the localization of the histidine kinase HssS . Specifically , disruption of fapR leads to increased membrane rigidity , which hinders the penetration of HssRS inducers , resulting in the inactivation of HssRS . Furthermore , deletion of fapR affects the loading of HssS onto the cell membrane , compromising its heme sensing function and subsequently reducing endogenous heme biosynthesis . These findings shed light on the molecular mechanisms governing bacterial adaptation to heme stress and provide potential targets for antimicrobial intervention strategies . IMPORTANCE : Understanding the mechanisms by which B . anthracis regulates heme homeostasis is crucial for developing new strategies to combat anthrax , a serious disease affecting both humans and animals . This study uncovers the role of the transcriptional regulator FapR in maintaining membrane integrity and facilitating the proper function of the HssRS two-component signaling system , which is essential for managing heme toxicity in B . anthracis , as well as other Gram-positive pathogens . By elucidating the connection between FapR and HssRS , our findings provide new insights into the molecular adaptation of bacteria to heme stress and expand our knowledge of bacterial physiology and pathogenicity . More importantly , targeting the regulatory pathways involved in heme sensing and homeostasis presents a promising approach for developing novel therapeutics against anthrax and potentially other bacterial infections that rely on similar mechanisms . FAU - Pi , Hualiang
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Management of autoimmune encephalitis ( AE ) is challenging due to a lack of reliable biomarkers . We here assess the combination of glial fibrillary acid protein ( GFAP ) and neurofilament ( NfL ) as biomarkers for diagnosis and disease monitoring of AE . METHODS : GFAP and NfL CSF levels ( cGFAP , cNfL ) of 42 AE patients were correlated with CSF markers of neuroinflammation . NfL/GFAP ratios were compared between patients with stable and active AE , stable and active multiple sclerosis ( MS ) , and patients undergoing diagnostic lumbar puncture without evident pathological alterations ( controls ) . RESULTS : In patients with AE , cGFAP levels showed strong correlations with albumin and IgG quotients and moderate correlations with CSF cell count ; cNfL levels showed weak correlations with albumin quotients . cGFAP and cNfL levels showed no significant differences between patients with and without epileptic activity or inflammatory MRI lesions . Both sNfL and sGFAP correlated with the Clinical Assessment Scale in Autoimmune Encephalitis . Compared to NfL or GFAP alone , the NfL/GFAP ratio from CSF or serum led to a clearer separation of AE from MS patients and controls . Furthermore , serum NfL/GFAP ratios better discriminated active from stable AE . CONCLUSION : cGFAP levels indicate intrathecal inflammatory processes in patients with active AE to a stronger degree than cNfL levels . Serum NfL/GFAP ratios recognize active AE , suggesting this ratio identifies AE patients with CNS-compartmentalized neuronal injury ( autoantibody-mediated or cytotoxic ) behind a relatively intact blood-brain barrier . Our findings indicate that the NfL/GFAP ratio can function as a blood-based biomarker , aiding clinicians with diagnosis and disease management of AE .
Acinetobacter baumannii is a critical priority gram-negative bacterial species characterized by multidrug resistance . The latter is significantly attributable to the resistance-nodulation-cell division ( RND ) superfamily of tripartite multidrug efflux systems represented by AdeABC , AdeFGH , and AdeIJK . By constructing isogenic deletion mutants , this investigation assessed the impact of RND efflux pumps on planktonic and biofilm cell antimicrobial susceptibility as well as on biofilm formation and virulence factors in a multidrug-resistant reference strain , A . baumannii AYE . Inactivation of individual genes encoding the aforementioned three RND pumps or regulators ( i . e . , AYE big up tri , openadeA , big up tri , openadeB , big up tri , openadeC , big up tri , openadeRS , big up tri , openadeFGH , and big up tri , openadeIJK mutants ) demonstrated that the three efflux pumps , particularly AdeB , contribute to resistance in both planktonic and biofilm cells to structurally unrelated anti-A . baumannii drugs , including carbapenems , fluoroquinolones , macrolides , polymyxins , and/or tetracyclines/tigecycline . The pump inactivation also altered other functions , changes in bacterial motility and adhesion , reduction of biofilm formation , and decreased expression of the genes related to biofilm formation and virulence factors ( abaI , bap , bfmR , csuE , ompA , and pgaA , except for abaR whose expression was increased ) . The virulence assay measured through the survival rates of A . baumannii-infected Galleria mellonella revealed the relation between RND pumps ( particularly AdeB ) and pathogenicity . The findings together expand the understanding of specific A . baumannii RND pumps or components for their roles in resistance and virulence/pathogenicity in the presence of high-level multidrug resistance , highlighting the RND pumps as potential therapeutic intervention targets against A . baumannii infection . FAU - Xie , Lulin
Staphylococcus aureus can acquire antimicrobial resistance , which in turn may affect its pathogenic potential . Using a panel of paired clinical isolates collected before and after daptomycin resistance acquisition , most frequently through a single mprF mutation , we show a relationship between increasing daptomycin minimum inhibitory concentration and reduced virulence in a Drosophila systemic infection model . Analyzing toxin production , in vitro bacterial growth characteristics , and cell surface properties , we failed to link daptomycin resistance-related attenuated virulence to either reduced virulence factor production , reduced fitness , or any of the cell surface characteristics investigated . Competition assays in Drosophila also did not support any altered ability in immune evasion . Instead , using a panel of mutant flies defective for various immune components , we show that this daptomycin resistance-related attenuated virulence is mostly explained by greater susceptibility to the activity of Drosophila prophenoloxidase , a tyrosinase involved in melanization , but not to antimicrobial peptides or Bomanin antimicrobial effectors . Further investigation could not link daptomycin resistance-related attenuation of virulence to differential susceptibility to reactive oxygen species or quinones prominently associated with phenoloxidase bacterial-killing activity . Taken together , it appears that daptomycin resistance attenuates Staphylococcus aureus virulence through enhanced sensitivity to phenoloxidase based on a complex mechanism . Our study provides new insights into the understanding of the crosstalk between antimicrobial resistance , escape from immune killing , and virulence . IMPORTANCEThis study advances current knowledge in the field of host-microbe interactions and antimicrobial resistance by exploring crosstalk between antimicrobial resistance and virulence . It shows how acquiring antimicrobial resistance can alter bacterial virulence and helps shape virulence . Relative to the parental staphylococcal strain , daptomycin-resistant clinical isolates most often varied by one single mutation in a gene involved in the composition of the bacterial membrane , and these strains were much less virulent when fruit flies were infected . The difference in virulence is unrelated to changes in bacterial toxin production , bacterial growth , immune evasion , or cell surface properties . Instead , resistant strains were more vulnerable to a host proenzyme involved in the antibacterial melanization response , an important response deployed throughout the arthropods . We predict that daptomycin resistance forces staphylococci to alter the composition of their cell surface , which causes the bacteria to become more vulnerable to killing by melanization . FAU - Lamy , Brigitte
Liver fibrosis is a pathological process characterized by the excessive deposition of diffuse extracellular matrix in the liver , serving as a reparative response of the body to chronic liver injury . Daidzein ( DAI ) is an isoflavone compound primarily derived from leguminous plants , such as soybeans and kudzu root . Numerous studies have demonstrated its significant anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties ; however , the extent of its role in anti-hepatic fibrosis remains uncertain . This study aimed to investigate whether DAI exerts a therapeutic effect on liver fibrosis and to elucidate its underlying molecular mechanisms . In this study , we primarily investigated the anti-hepatic fibrosis effects of DAI . We established two mouse models of liver fibrosis through intraperitoneal injection of carbon tetrachloride ( CCl ) and bile duct ligation ( BDL ) . Following serum-free treatment , we administered transforming growth factor beta1 to stimulate LX-2 cells , thereby creating a model for the activation of hepatic stellate cell ( HSC ) lines . DAI mitigated liver injury induced by CCl and BDL , as evidenced by decreased serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase , alanine aminotransferase , and liver hydroxyproline . Furthermore , DAI also diminished the inflammatory response associated with CCl and BDL . Additionally , DAI reduced the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin and type I collagen , alpha 1 , demonstrating anti-hepatic fibrosis effects by lowering the expression of integrin alphaV , integrin beta1 , and YAP , while simultaneously increasing the protein expression of phosphorylated YAP ( Ser 397 ) . The use of the YAP inhibitor verteporfin in LX-2 , along with YAP silencing treatment , confirmed that DAI inhibits the activation of HSCs through the regulation of YAP . This study demonstrated that DAI can mitigate liver injury and inflammatory responses induced by CCl and BDL . It inhibited the activation of HSCs and reduced liver fibrosis by targeting the integrin/YAP signaling pathway . These findings suggested that DAI may serve as a potential candidate for anti-hepatic fibrosis chemical drugs . FAU - Bai , Junjie
Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) are widely used for tissue regeneration due to their multilineage differentiation potential and ability to secrete paracrine factors with immunomodulatory and angiogenic functions . Standard MSC differentiation protocols typically rely on two-dimensional ( 2D ) or pellet culture models that are simple to use but not well-suited for translational or clinical applications . To promote better cell survival , tissue deposition , and differentiation of MSCs , a wide variety of three-dimensional ( 3D ) biomaterial scaffolds and platforms have been developed that provide structural support and present a carefully defined set of biochemical and biophysical cues to cells . While biomaterials can guide cell behavior and promote desirable tissue regeneration outcomes , one remaining challenge in the field is inherent donor-to-donor variability in MSC behavior , phenotype , and differentiation capacity . Although MSCs are promising tools for regeneration , the influence of donor variability on MSC differentiation across culture models remains poorly understood . Previous studies typically use cells from a single donor or rely solely on standard culture models . To address these gaps , we compared MSCs from six human donors and assessed differentiation across chondrogenic , osteogenic , and adipogenic lineages using both standard ( pellet or 2D ) and 3D biomaterial-based culture models . Alginate hydrogels were used to assess chondrogenesis , while gelatin microribbon ( microRB ) hydrogels were used to evaluate osteogenesis and adipogenesis in 3D . Significant donor-to-donor variability was observed in differentiation outcomes across all three lineages and within both 2D and 3D culture models . By directly comparing donor variability in 2D and 3D , we provide evidence that standard 2D models cannot predict MSC differentiation capacity in 3D biomaterials . Therefore , to improve therapeutic efficacy and advance biomaterial-based strategies for tissue regeneration , it is critical to understand how donor variability affects MSC differentiation patterns across 3D biomaterial-based culture models . FAU - Jones , Sarah
This study investigated the secondary metabolites of Inula japonica leaves and determined their corresponding anti-skin aging properties . LC-MS-based molecular networking and compound isolation identified caffeoylglucaric and caffeoylquinic acids as the principal components of the 30% ethanolic extract of I . japonica leaves ( IJE ) . The chemical structures of three previously unreported caffeoylglucaric acids , namely , inulajaponic acids A-C ( 1 , 2 , and 4 ) , were determined . IJE and its compounds exhibited significant inhibitory effects against ROS and MMP-1 production in TNF-alpha-induced NHDF cells . In particular , compound 4 suppressed ROS , MMP-1 , IL-6 , and IL-8 production , while promoting the production of procollagen type I alpha Mechanistic studies revealed that 4 attenuates the phosphorylation of ERK , JNK , NF-kappaB , and c-Jun , suggesting that it regulates inflammatory cytokines and prevents collagen degradation via MAPK-NF-kappaB/AP-1 signaling pathways . Furthermore , 4 downregulated iNOS and COX-2 expression and upregulated HO-1 expression , demonstrating its ability to reduce the inflammatory responses associated with skin aging . FAU - Son , So-Ri
Neural stem cell therapies hold great promise for improving stroke recovery , but the hostile stroke microenvironment can hinder the initial graft survival . It has long been well documented that the microenvironment evolves over time , making it crucial to identify the optimal transplantation window to maximize therapeutic efficacy . However , it remains uncertain whether acute or delayed local cell transplantations better supports graft viability after stroke . Here , it is shown that delayed intracerebral transplantation of neural progenitor cells ( NPCs ) derived from human induced pluripotent cells ( iPSCs ) at 7 days post stroke significantly enhances graft proliferation and survival , and promotes axonal sprouting , compared to acute transplantation at 1 day post stroke , in a mouse model of large cortical stroke . Using in vivo bioluminescence imaging over a 6-week period post-transplantation , a more than fivefold increase is observed in bioluminescence signal in mice that received delayed NPC therapy , compared to those that underwent acute NPC transplantation . The increased number of cell grafts in mice receiving delayed NPC transplantation is driven by increased proliferation rates early after transplantation , which subsequently declines to similarly low levels in both groups . Notably , it is found that the majority of transplanted NPCs differentiate into neurons after 6 weeks , with no significant differences in the neuron-to-glia ratio between acute and delayed transplantation groups . These findings suggest that delayed NPC transplantation improves early graft survival and proliferation , which could help identify the optimal therapeutic window for maximizing the effectiveness of NPC-based therapies in stroke .
AXL receptor tyrosine kinase ( AXL ) , a transmembrane protein highly expressed in a variety of cancers , has been implicated in the development of resistance to various forms of therapy and poor patient outcomes . Although several strategies have been postulated to limit AXL signaling and thus tumor growth , further refinement is possible . In this Drug Annotation , we report the structure-based design , SAR-driven optimization , preclinical pharmacokinetics ( PK ) , and synthetic chemistry which enabled the discovery of AB AB801 is a novel , highly potent , selective , and orally bioavailable AXL inhibitor . In addition to its characterization in a variety of in vitro assays and in vivo studies , AB801 was recently dosed in healthy volunteers and is currently being evaluated clinically as a single agent in advanced solid tumors and in combination with chemotherapy for the treatment of nonsmall cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . FAU - Miles , Dillon H
All-solid-state lithium ( Li ) batteries ( ASSLBs ) can inhibit the growth of Li dendrites to some extent , whereas Li dendrites are still unavoidable , which decreases the electrochemical performance of ASSLBs . Among the many methods developed for suppressing Li dendrites , the use of Li-In alloy anodes is a common strategy due to its smooth voltage plateau and stable electrochemical performance . However , Li-In dendrites still appear in Li-In anode-based ASSLBs . Herein , a rare earth ( RE ) element ( Ce ) was introduced to form Li-In-Ce alloy anodes , which contain micro-sized CeIn particles in a Li-In substrate . Compared with Li-In , the Ce-containing Li-In-Ce anode had better electrochemical properties and greater cycling stability ( >10 times , approximately 750 cycles ) in the ASSLB . The CeIn particles in the Li-In-Ce alloys can limit the deformation of Li-In and promote the even plating of Li , significantly suppressing the growth of Li-In dendrites , which is observed in situ via special solid cells . In addition , this improvement strategy for Li-In alloys is universal for other RE elements ( such as Y , La , Pr , Sm , or Yb ) , and the electrochemical properties can be influenced by the metal bond strength of RE-In in REIn . This work can guide the design of high-performance anodes in ASSLBs . FAU - Shi , Xiaomeng
Zanubrutinib demonstrated significantly longer progression-free survival versus ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( R/R CLL ) in the ALPINE trial . This post-hoc analysis using ALPINE data aimed to understand the benefit-risk associated with zanubrutinib versus ibrutinib employing quality-adjusted time without symptoms/toxicity ( Q-TWiST ) methodology . Survival data were partitioned into 3 health-states : TOX ( time with toxicity ) ; TWiST ( time without symptoms/toxicity ) ; and REL ( time after relapse ) . Q-TWiST was estimated as mean time in each health-state weighted by respective utility score . In the base case , comprising high-risk patients , mean durations ( in months ) for zanubrutinib versus ibrutinib were 54 versus 38 ( TOX ) , 45 versus 09 ( TWiST ) , and 70 versus 78 ( REL ) . Mean duration of Q-TWiST was 07 ( zanubrutinib ) versus 67 months ( ibrutinib ; difference : 40 months ; 95%CI : 9-9 ; p< . 001 ) . This analysis demonstrated a significant Q-TWiST gain for zanubrutinib versus ibrutinib in high-risk R/R CLL patients , providing valuable insights that may inform clinical decision-making . FAU - Levy , Vincent
l-Threonine is one of the essential amino acids and has broad applications in food , pharmaceuticals , cosmetic products , and feed . Currently , its production depends on sustainable , environmentally friendly , and cost-effective microbial fermentation utilizing renewable carbon sources . With the global demand for l-threonine rising annually , achieving high production efficiency at economical costs has become a major focus of research . Multiple metabolic engineering approaches have been implemented to develop efficient l-threonine microbial cell factories , providing theoretical insights to support industrial-scale l-threonine production . This paper reviews systematic metabolic engineering approaches to develop l-threonine microbial cell factories , explores the application of novel tools and strategies , examines research aimed at enhancing cell robustness , and discusses fermentation condition optimization . Lastly , the challenges in constructing efficient l-threonine-producing strains are highlighted , providing theoretical insights to support industrial-scale l-threonine production . FAU - Nie , Yupeng
Exercise-induced inflammation and free radical production are crucial for recovery , yet excess inflammation poses risks to equine athletes , leading to conditions like arthritis . Spirulina , recognized for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties , could mitigate degenerative diseases without hindering post-exercise recovery . This study investigates Spirulina ' s direct impact on cartilage responses to LPS-induced inflammation in normoxic and hypoxic conditions , focusing on outcomes relevant to cartilage matrix turnover and exercise-induced inflammation . Spirulina underwent simulated digestion and liver metabolism , yielding a simulated biological extract ( SP ( sim ) ) . In the normoxic experiment , porcine cartilage explants were cultured with SP ( sim ) ( 0 , 30 , or 90 mug/mL ) for 72 h after 24 h in basal media , with LPS ( 0 or 10 mug/mL ) added for the final 48 h . The hypoxic experiment mirrored this , with explants transferred to a hypoxia chamber for the final 48 h . Media samples collected at 0 , 24 , and 48 h were analyzed for biomarkers related to cartilage turnover ( GAG ) , and exercise-induced inflammation ( IL-6 and NO ) . Cell viability , assessed by live : dead staining , remained > 97% and unaffected by oxygen tension . In normoxic conditions , SP ( sim ) ( 30 mug/mL ) significantly reduced GAG release at 48 h . Under hypoxia , SP ( sim ) ( 30 and 90 mug/mL ) inhibited LPS-induced GAG release . SP ( sim ) ( 90 mug/mL ) increased IL-6 and NO production in LPS-stimulated explants in normoxia , and a similar effect was observed with the lower SP ( sim ) dose ( 30 mug/mL ) in hypoxic conditions . These results suggest that Spirulina may enhance cartilage mediators , potentially promoting healthy cartilage turnover during exercise recovery . FAU - Golestani , Nadia
Glutathione ( GSH ) , a tripeptide essential for maintaining redox balance in the human body , plays a critical role in protecting cells from oxidative stress . A deficiency in GSH is linked to increased oxidative damage and the progression of various disorders , including cancer and neurological diseases . In this study , we developed gold nanoparticles ( Au NPs ) coated with GSH and further functionalized with galactose moieties to selectively target glucose transporters ( GLUT ) , which is overexpressed on the surface of the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) and could be exploited for the selective recognition and internalization of the Au@GSH-Gal NPs , that could then exert an antioxidant effect . As a proof of concept , brain cancer cells were treated with Au@GSH-Gal NPs , evidencing their increased internalization and a significant reduction of H2O2-induced oxidative stress .
This study describes an efficient electrochemical synthetic method for C-3 alkoxycarbonylation of 2H-indazoles with carbazates under constant current in an undivided cell without the need for external oxidants or metal catalysts . This methodology exhibits broad functional group compatibility , affording the products with good yields . Easy scalability and drug diversification demonstrate the synthetic efficacy and applicability of this protocol . FAU - Thondur , Jagadeesh Reddy
Parkinson ' s disease is one of the neuropathies characterized by accumulation of the alpha-synuclein protein , leading to motor dysfunction . Levodopa is the gold standard treatment ; however , in long-term usage , it leads to levodopa-induced dyskinesia ( LID ) . New therapeutic options are need of the hour to treat the alpha-synuclein-based neuropathies . The role of imbalance of neurotransmitters other than dopamine has been underestimated in alpha-synuclein-based neuropathies . Here , we explore the role of serotonin , epinephrine , and norepinephrine as a therapeutic moiety . For the efficient in vivo delivery , we use a DNA nanotechnology-based DNA tetrahedron that has shown the potential to cross the biological barriers . In this study , we explore the use of DNA nanodevices , particularly a DNA tetrahedron functionalized with neurotransmitters , as a novel therapeutic approach for MPTP ( 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1 , 2 , 3 , 6-tetrahydropyridine ) -induced Parkinson ' s disease in a PC12 cellular system . We first establish the effect of these nanodevices on the clearance of the alpha-synuclein protein in cells . We follow the study by understanding the various cellular processes like ROS , iron accumulation , and lipid peroxidation . We also explore the effect of the neurotransmitter-loaded nanodevices in an in vivo zebrafish model . We show that neurotransmitter-loaded DNA nanocages can potentially clear the MPTP-induced alpha-synuclein aggregates in cells and in vivo . The findings of these works open up new avenues for use of DNA nanotechnology by functionalizing it with neurotransmitters for future therapeutics in treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson ' s disease . FAU - Vaswani , Payal
Atrazine ( ATZ ) , a commonly used triazine herbicide , is known to impair male reproductive function . Melatonin ( MLT ) is an endogenous hormone synthesized by the pineal gland . Its lipophilic nature enables it to freely penetrate the blood-testis barrier ( BTB ) and exert direct effects . However , it remains unclear whether MLT can prevent ATZ-induced impairment of BTB function . Pubertal male mice were randomly assigned to four groups and treated via gavage for 21 days : control group ( Con ) , 5 mg/kg melatonin group ( MLT ) , 170 mg/kg atrazine group ( ATZ ) , and cotreatment group ( ATZ+MLT ) . Furthermore , BTB-associated proteins , transepithelial electrical resistance , and cell adhesion assays were performed in TM4 cells treated with siClusterin , pcDNA1-Clusterin , and AKT inhibitor VIII to evaluate BTB function in vitro . Our findings demonstrate that MLT effectively restores ATZ-induced reductions in BTB protein levels and function in both in vivo and in vitro models . Moreover , MLT mitigated ATZ-induced BTB damage by reactivating the Clusterin/AKT signaling pathway . FAU - Yang , Tian-Ning
The aberrant cellular senescence in chronic wounds presents a significant barrier to healing . Mitochondrial dysfunction is critical in initiating and maintaining cellular senescence , underscoring therapeutic potential in restoring mitochondrial function by delivering healthy mitochondria to wound cells . However , approaches for delivering mitochondria to achieve optimized wound repair remain lacking . Herein , enucleated MSCs-derived microvesicles containing functional mitochondria ( Mito@euMVs ) via simple extrusion are developed . By controlling the size of microvesicles within a small micron-scale range , the mitochondrial encapsulation efficiency is optimized . Mito@euMVs effectively delivered mitochondria into fibroblasts and HUVECs , inhibiting and rejuvenating hyperglycemia-induced cellular senescence . To enhance the clinical applicability , soluble PVA microneedle patches for the transdermal Mito@euMVs delivery are utilized . In diabetic rats with pressure sores , the senescence-inhibiting and -rescuing properties of Mito@euMVs are further validated , along with their therapeutic efficacy , demonstrating their potential for chronic wound repair . Moreover , as a versatile delivery vehicle for mitochondria , Mito@euMVs hold promising for treating mitochondrial dysfunction and aging-related conditions .
A new triterpenoid , 3 , 4-seco-29-hydroxyfriedelan-3-oic acid , was obtained from the leafy parts of Gymnosporia chevalieri , along with eighteen previously identified compounds . These included four pentacyclic triterpenoids ( 2-5 ) , two carotenoids ( 6 and 7 ) , one flavanol dimer , nine flavonoids ( 9-17 ) , one megastigmane glycoside , and one pentose . A combination of spectroscopic techniques was employed for structural identification . Thirteen isolates ( 2 , 4 , 7-12 , 14 , 15 and 17-19 ) showed inhibitory activity in the macrophage NO production model , with IC values in the range ( 0 and 2 microM ) . Compound 14 had the most potent effect ( IC = 0 microM ) , which was comparable to that of dexamethasone . Compounds 1 , 3 and 6 exerted pronounced anti-proliferative effects against Hep-G2 , A549 and MCF-7 cell lines with IC values in the range ( 3 and 6 microM ) . This is the first phytochemical investigation of G . chevalieri . FAU - Doan , Nghia Ai Thi
PURPOSE : Intervertebral disc degeneration ( IDD ) is a spinal condition that causes low back pain . Pellino E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 ( PELI1 ) expression reportedly correlates with inflammation and cell death . This study aimed to determine its potential role in IDD . METHODS : Cell counting kit-8 assay , 5-ethynyl-2 ' -deoxyuridine staining , senescence-associated beta-galactosidase staining , morphological observation , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) release assay , quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction , and western blotting were used to examine the effect of PELI1 on tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF-alpha ) -induced human primary nucleus pulposus cells ( hNPCs ) . RESULTS : PELI1 was highly expressed in TNF-alpha-treated hNPCs . TNF-alpha treatment notably reduced hNPCs viability and proliferation , but enhanced senescence ( elevated p16 and p21 expression ) , extracellular matrix degeneration ( reduced collagen II and aggrecan expression and upregulated matrix metallopeptidase-13 and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin type 1 motifs-5 expression ) , nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing-3 ( NLRP3 ) inflammasome formation ( enhanced NLRP3 , apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a caspase recruitment domain ( ASC ) , and cleaved caspase 1 expression ) , pyroptosis ( elevated cleaved gasdermin D expression ) , LDH release , and inflammatory cytokine release ( high mobility group box 1 , interleukin ( IL ) -1beta , and IL-18 ) . These effects were distinctly reduced by PELI1 silencing but enhanced by its overexpression . Interestingly , the effects triggered by PELI1 silencing were partially reversed by ASC overexpression . CONCLUSIONS : PELI1 May promote IDD progression by expediting nucleus pulposus cell death and participates in the inflammatory response regulated by the NLRP3 inflammasome in nucleus pulposus cells . These suggest PELI1 as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of IDD . FAU - Wei , Xiaodong
Microfluidics can achieve the spatiotemporal manipulation of particles and cells in the microscale fluids , but highly relies on the accuracy of the pumping systems . To overcome this issue , a pump-free , hydraulic-amplification oscillatory microfluidic ( PHOMF ) device is presented , which can be actuated by fingers to handle particles and cells within the microchannel . The PHOMF device has a hydraulic-amplification module for pressure transfer and a soft microchannel module for the generation of oscillatory flows . This is made possible by the periodic transfer of finger-driven liquid pressure to the soft microchannel . This pressure causes the soft microchannel to deform and then drives the reciprocating flow of fluid volumes within the microchannel . In the oscillatory flow , particles and cells achieve single-line focusing driven by the spatially accumulated inertial and elastic lift forces . The particle elasto-inertial focusing theory in the PHOMF microchannel has been revealed . To demonstrate the system ' s practicality , the PHOMF device is utilized to achieve the early observation of platelet clots ( 3 min ) and the rapid staining of cancer cells ( 8 min ) . The PHOMF device provides a miniaturized , inexpensive , and efficient detection tool for lab-on-a-chip , and has the potential to become a mass-produced , widely available , and convenient disease detection product .
BACKGROUND : Anabolic-androgenic steroids ( AASs ) are synthetic derivatives of testosterone that are abused by athletes to enhance their physical appearance and performance . AAS abusers have an increased risk of tendon ruptures compared with nonusers , and it has been proposed that AASs damage tendon tissue . Only a few human studies have investigated the effect of AASs on tendon tissue , and to our knowledge , there are no data on female sex . PURPOSE/HYPOTHESIS : The purpose was to investigate the effect of current and former abuse of AASs on the patellar tendon ( PT ) . It was hypothesized that AASs would not affect tendon tissue . STUDY DESIGN : Cross-sectional study ; Level of evidence , METHODS : This study included recreational athletes with current ( female : n = 4 ; male : n = 18 ; total : n = 22 ) or former ( female : n = 5 ; male : n = 7 ; total : n = 12 ) AAS abuse and nonusers ( female : n = 5 ; male : n = 9 ; total : n = 14 ) . The authors investigated the proportion of tendon injuries , PT cross-sectional area by magnetic resonance imaging , mechanical properties by ultrasound , gene expression levels of connective tissue proteins , and cell density by histological staining from tendon biopsy samples . RESULTS : The combined AAS group ( both current and former abusers ) reported a higher proportion of upper body tendon injuries compared with nonusers ( 4% vs 6% , respectively ; P = . 002 ) . There was no difference in PT cross-sectional area ( P = . 918 ) or cell density ( fascicular matrix : P = . 413 ; interfascicular matrix : P = . 982 ) between current AAS abusers , former AAS abusers , and nonusers . There was a greater expression of IGF-1 mRNA in current AAS abusers compared with nonusers ( P = . 043 ) , but there were no group differences in other mRNA targets . Former AAS abusers had significantly higher tendon deformation ( P = . 030 ) and strain ( P = . 026 ) at common force compared with nonusers . There were no significant differences between male and female participants in the effect of AASs on tendon tissue . CONCLUSION : These data show that the PT itself was not severely affected by AAS abuse . FAU - Damgaard , Ann
Ficolin 3 ( FCN3 ) is a pattern recognition molecule that activates the complement system via the lectin pathway . While its immunological roles are known , the specific mechanisms by which FCN3 affects cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) pathogenesis remain unclear . In this study , we investigated FCN3 expression in CCA and benign cells , as well as tumor versus non-tumor tissues , using RT-qPCR and Western blotting analyses . The effects of FCN3 on CCA cell proliferation , migration , and invasion were analyzed through CCK-8 , EdU , transwell , and wound-healing assays , with in vivo studies supporting these findings . The complement-mediated cytotoxicity of CCA cells was assessed using human serum with or without heat inactivation and an anti-C6 blocking antibody . Immunocytochemical staining was used to examine membrane attack complex ( MAC ) deposition , and an immunoprecipitation assay was adopted to evaluate the interaction between FCN3 and MASP family members . The role of FCN3 in inducing necroptosis was explored through transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) and Western blotting analysis , focusing on the RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL pathway . The results of the study demonstrate that FCN3 expression was significantly lower in CCA cells and tissues . Overexpressing FCN3 suppressed cell proliferation and migration , enhanced complement-mediated cytotoxicity via MASP2 binding , and increased MAC deposition . FCN3 also induced necroptosis through activating the RIPK1/RIPK3/MLKL pathway . These results highlight FCN3 as a tumor suppressor in CCA and suggest its potential as a therapeutic target for this malignancy .
Understanding the impact of microbial interactions on plants is critical for maintaining healthy native ecosystems and sustainable agricultural practices . Despite the reality that genetically distinct plants host multiple microbes of large effect in the field , it remains unclear the extent to which host genotypes modulate non-additive microbial interactions and how these interactions differ between benign/pathogenic environments . Our study fills this gap by performing a large-scale manipulative microbiome experiment across seven genotypes of the model legume Medicago truncatula . We combine plant performance metrics , survival analyses , predictive modelling , RNA extractions and targeted gene expression to assess how host genotype and microbes non-additively interact to shape plant growth and disease ecology . Our results reveal three important findings : host genotypes with high tolerance to pathogens benefit more from multiple mutualist interactions than susceptible genotypes , only high-tolerance genotypes retain the same beneficial host performance outcomes from the benign environment within the pathogenic environment and the quality of the symbiotic relationship with mutualists is a strong predictor of host survival against pathogenic disease . By applying these findings towards developing crops that promote synergistic microbial interactions , yields and pathogen defence could be simultaneously increased while reducing the need for toxic fertilisers and pesticides .
Microbial cell factories produce valuable compounds by exploiting cytochrome P450 catalytic systems . However , the inefficient electron transfer flux ( ETF ) between P450 and cytochrome P450 reductase ( CPR ) hinders the efficient synthesis of natural products . Herein , an ETF is systematically engineered by regulating the electron transfer rate , electron-receiving rate , and electron donor NADPH availability for serotonin production . First , a putative electron transfer pathway ( ETP ) is identified using virtual computing and evolved based on a genetically encoded serotonin RNA biosensor . Subsequently , an intermediate site strategy is developed to shorten the electron-hopping steps and distance in the ETP of CPR for enhancing the electron transfer rate . Next , the heme-binding domain is engineered to reduce the distance between heme-Fe and the substrate channel terminal in T5H for improving the electron-receiving rate . Furthermore , the NADPH pool is enlarged to increase the electron supply for efficient catalysis of P450 systems . Finally , tryptophan-5-hydroxylase ( T5H ) activity ( K ( cat ) /K ( M ) ) in the optimal mutant is 62-fold than that of wild-type . The engineered strain E . coli S11 can produce 42 g L ( -1 ) serotonin in a 5-L bioreactor , which is 17-fold of the previous reported . This strategy provides a systematic approach for regulating ETF in complex P450 catalytic systems for efficient chemical biosynthesis .
In this work , a Na ( + ) -preinserted layered VO ( NaVO ) is developed as a solid-state electrolyte to replace liquid electrolytes ( LEs ) . NaVO demonstrates the feature of a single-ion conductor , exhibiting a sodium ion transference number of 88 , which can provide selective passage for Na ( + ) migration with the anionic V-O-V layer unmoved . Impressively , the redox reactions and electron transfer between I ( - ) and V ( 5+/4+ ) ( such as V ( V/IV ) O + 2I ( - ) <--> V ( IV/III ) O + I ) are beneficial for Na ( + ) ( de ) intercalation ( from ) into NaVO . Meanwhile , the inner wall of the layered NaVO is occupied by the preinserted Na ( + ) , which can retard the penetration of the large-sized iodide/polyiodides and impede them shuttling from the iodine-cathode chamber into the anode side . Moreover , the exposed crystalline plane of NaVO enables the adsorption and stabilization of the I ( + ) intermediate via charge transfer of I --> O --> V , which can facilitate multielectron conversion of 2I ( - ) --> I --> 2I ( + ) , resulting in an increased capacity . Therefore , a NaVO/poly ( vinylidene fluoride ) PVDF quasi-solid-state composite polymer electrolyte ( CPE ) is fabricated , which presents a high sigma and large t ( Na ) ( + ) with interfacial compatibility . And the as-assembled Na | Na and Na | I cells exhibit good electrochemical performances . FAU - Li , Kai
Epigallocatechin-3-gallate ( EGCG ) and glabridin ( GLA ) are two phytochemicals derived from homologous plants used for medicine and food that have demonstrated efficacy in inhibiting excessive production of melanin and promoting skin whitening properties . However , it is unknown whether EGCG and GLA can synergistically inhibit melanogenesis . The aim of this study was to explore the effects of the combination of EGCG and GLA on the expression and activity of microphthalmia-related transcription factor ( MITF ) and to reveal the mechanism of the synergistic treatment with EGCG and GLA on excessive melanin deposition . This study used B16F10 cells to screen for the synergistic effect on melanin deposition and determined the best ratio of EGCG and GLA . Dual-luciferase reported gene assays were used to explore whether GLA and EGCG could regulate the mRNA level of MITF . Molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation were used to explain the synergistic interaction of EGCG and GLA with MITF , and then Masson-Fontana and hematoxylin-eosin were used to observe the skin changes of mice . The results showed that the combination of EGCG and GLA could synergistically regulate MITF and thus inhibit melanogenesis by modulating microRNA expression . EGCG and GLA were also able to synergistically interact with MITF to inhibit excessive melanogenesis . FAU - Song , Jingwu
Suspension and imaging mass cytometry are single-cell , proteomic-based methods used to characterize tissue composition and structure . Data assessing the consistency of these methods over an extended period of time are still sparse and are needed if mass cytometry-based methods are to be used clinically . Here , we present experimental and computational pipelines developed within the Tumor Profiler clinical study , an observational clinical trial assessing the relevance of cutting-edge technologies in guiding treatment decisions for advanced cancer patients . By using aliquots of frozen antibody panels , batch effects between independent experiments performed within a time frame of 1 year were minimized . The inclusion of well-characterized reference samples allowed us to assess and correct for batch effects . A systematic evaluation of a test tumor sample analyzed in each run showed that our batch correction approach consistently reduced signal variations . We provide an exemplary analysis of a representative patient sample including an overview of data provided to clinicians and potential treatment suggestions . This study demonstrates that standardized suspension and imaging mass cytometry measurements generate robust data that meet clinical requirements for reproducibility and provide oncologists with valuable insights on the biology of patient tumors .
FAT atypical cadherin 1 ( FAT1 ) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) , exhibiting the highest mutation rate across different tumor types . Although FAT1 ' s role has attracted considerable attention , its impact on cancer metabolism and treatment resistance remains poorly understood . In this study , it is demonstrated that knockout of mutant FAT1 in HNSCC cells attenuates CPT1A-driven fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) through downregulation of the transcription factor ASCL2 , leading to marked suppression of tumor growth . Notably , FAT1-mutant HNSCC cells exhibit resistance to the TCA cycle inhibitor CPI-613 through activation of CPT1A-mediated FAO , whereas genetic ablation of mutant FAT1 restores sensitivity to CPI- To achieve in vivo depletion of FAT1 , LNP-sgFAT1 is developed , a novel lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) system encapsulating Cas9 mRNA and FAT1-targeting sgRNA . In murine models bearing FAT1-mutant head and neck tumors , LNP-sgFAT1 demonstrated enhanced antitumor activity when combined with CPI- Collectively , these findings establish that mutant FAT1 drives CPT1A-dependent FAO , facilitating a metabolic bypass that confers resistance to TCA cycle inhibition in HNSCC . This mechanistic insight highlights promising opportunities for combinatorial therapeutic strategies co-targeting genetic and metabolic vulnerabilities in cancer .
A 21-year-old immunocompromised female ( advanced HIV , CD4 count : 9 cells/muL ) presented with painful genital ulcers . A multiplex PCR panel detected Trichomonas vaginalis in both vaginal and ulcer swabs , while tests for Neisseria gonorrhoeae , Chlamydia trachomatis , and Mycoplasma genitalium were negative . The patient was treated with metronidazole , resulting in significant clinical improvement . This case underscores the importance of considering T . vaginalis in the differential diagnosis of genital ulcers , particularly in immunocompromised individuals , and highlights the utility of molecular testing in atypical presentations .
Dysregulation of immune cells and cytokines , particularly T helper 17 ( Th17 ) cells and their associated cytokines , is implicated in the pathogenesis of both systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) and chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) . This study aimed to investigate the serum levels of Th17-related cytokines ( interleukin [IL]-17A , IL-21 , IL-22 , and IL-23 ) in CKD patients with and without SLE and explore their potential role in disease progression . A total of 118 participants were included , comprising 78 patients with CKD ( stages 3-5 ) and 40 healthy controls . Cytokine levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits . Patients with CKD exhibited significantly lower IL-21 levels and higher IL-22 and IL-17A levels compared with controls , while patients with end-stage renal disease showed elevated IL-21 and IL-23 levels . Among SLE-negative nephrotic patients , IL-23 and IL-17A were significantly upregulated , whereas SLE-positive nephrotic patients had increased IL-22 and IL-17A levels . In addition , IL-21 and IL-17A were significantly correlated in patients with CKD , suggesting a potential immunoregulatory interplay . These findings indicate that Th17-related cytokines are differentially expressed depending on CKD stage and SLE status , potentially influencing immune responses , inflammation , and kidney fibrosis . Understanding alterations of these cytokines may aid in identifying targeted therapeutic , particularly for patients with CKD at risk of SLE-related complications . FAU - Seif , Farhad
A novel quasi-solid polymer electrolyte ( QSPE ) composed of polyamide ( PA ) and polyethylene oxide ( PEO ) , commercially known as Pebax1657 , and combined with 1 M sodium bis ( trifluoromethanesulfonyl ) imide ( NaTFSI ) in diethylene glycol dimethyl ether ( diglyme , DEGDME ) , has been investigated for sodium-oxygen ( Na-O ) batteries . Pebax1657 QSPE exhibits high ionic conductivity ( 57 x 10 ( -4 ) S cm ( -1 ) at room temprerature - RT ) , an oxidation onset potential of 69 V versus Na/Na ( + ) , and an enhanced Na ( + ) transference number ( t ( Na ) ( ( + ) ) approximately 40 ) . Structural analysis ( Raman spectroscopy , differential scanning calorimetry , X-ray diffraction , small-angle X-ray scattering ) confirms reduced PEO crystallinity and formation of orderly nanodomains , facilitating Na ( + ) transport . Long-term galvanostatic cycling in Na|Na symmetrical cells demonstrates stable overpotentials ( approximately 80 mV ) at 75 microA cm ( - ) for 210 h , outperforming conventional liquid electrolytes ( approximately 110 h ) . Pebax1657 QSPE enables higher discharge capacities ( 60 mAh cm ( - ) at 75 microA cm ( - ) ; 11 mAh cm ( - ) at 150 microA cm ( - ) ) with lower overpotentials ( approximately 2 V ) . It sustains 25 cycles at 75 microA cm ( - ) and 35 cycles at 150 microA cm ( - ) at 25 mAh cm ( - ) , with a Coulombic Efficiency ( CE ) of 80-90% . Compared to the state of the art , Pebax1657 QSPE offers improved electrochemical stability , lower overpotentials , and better capacity retention . Its sustainability and versatility make it a strong candidate for Na-O batteries and other energy storage applications .
Liver fibrosis , a critical precursor to cirrhosis and a leading cause of mortality , highlights the urgent need for the identification of effective therapeutics . Activation of hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) is a key process in liver fibrosis . This study presents a live-cell drug-screening approach that specifically targets fibrosis-associated collagen type I alpha 1 ( COL1A1 ) mRNA in activated HSCs through the use of fluorogenic RNA self-assembly . It employs a dual-probe system to construct an RNA Mango II structure , which upon binding with COL1A1 mRNA , facilitates activation of the TO1-Biotin fluorophore , thereby enabling the visualization of mRNA to indicate HSC activation levels . Through the application of a high throughput live-cell screening system , dihydrotanshinone I ( DHT ) is identified as potent leading antifibrotic compound , evidenced by its inhibitory effects on COL1A1 mRNA expression . The therapeutic efficacy of DHT is further substantiated by monitoring COL1A1 mRNA dynamics following treatment . In vivo studies demonstrates the sustained administration of DHT significantly ameliorated liver fibrosis in mice models . This method offers a simple , cost-effective approach of visualizing RNA dynamics and conducting drug screening in live cells , presenting a significant potential for the development of hepatic fibrosis therapies .
This laboratory has reported that the combined use of In Vitro MicroFlow and MultiFlow assays provides information regarding chemicals ' genotoxic mode of action ( MoA ) . In an effort to go beyond MoA assessments , we incorporated a panel of biological response modifiers that elicit specific effects on the assays ' biomarker response profiles . This was done to pursue our hypothesis that such perturbation signatures would reveal information on clastogenic mechanisms and molecular targets . For this proof-of-concept study , we exposed TK6 cells to 20 known clastogens . Cells were exposed in 96-well plates in the presence and absence of each of four modifying agents at one optimized concentration : talazoparib ( PARP inhibitor ) , MK-8776 ( CHK1 inhibitor ) , AZD-7648 ( DNA-PK inhibitor ) , or a cocktail of reactive oxygen species scavengers . In parallel , cells were also exposed to each of the test chemicals for 4 h , at which time cells were washed and allowed to recover for an additional 20 h . For each of these treatment conditions , sample processing and flow cytometric analyses were performed using standard In Vitro MicroFlow and MultiFlow procedures to measure micronuclei , gammaH2AX , phosphohistone-H3 ( p-H3 ) , p53 activation , and relative nuclei counts . The resulting biomarker response data were processed with PROAST benchmark dose ( BMD ) software , with modifying agent as a covariate . Unsupervised hierarchical clustering of the collective potency metrics for various combinations of biomarkers showed that clastogens with similar genotoxic mechanisms grouped together . Overall , this study shows that in combination with biological response modifiers , MultiFlow and In Vitro MicroFlow biomarkers can provide mechanistic insights into chemical-induced genotoxicity .
Natural microbes coexist in a diverse species population with competition for space and nutrient resources . However , the molecular mechanisms underpinning the regulatory networks of microbes among themselves and with their host are still in infancy . Here , it is reported that Drosophila and the commensal Lactiplantibacillus plantarum form an alliance to compete with the pathogenic Serratia marcescens using the integrated three-species model system . In the dual-species model , larvae diminish the L . plantarum population , but reversibly increase lactate production through altering its transcriptional reprogramming . In the tripartite-species model , larvae facilitate the growth of L . plantarum that confers colonization resistance against S . marcescens . On the other hand , S . marcescens launches sophisticated arms race strategies to impair colonization resistance by sensing lactate derived from L . plantarum . More importantly , the S . marcescens population challenged with Drosophila and L . plantarum adaptively diverge into virulent and reduced virulence subclusters with an increase in resistance heterogeneity . To form the alliance with Drosophila , heterogeneity in lactate generation is broadened among L . plantarum subpopulations . Altogether , these findings provide an insight into the host-commensal-pathogen symbiosis at both bulk and single-cell resolutions , advancing fundamental concepts of precise manipulation of bacterial communities .
The pericellular matrix ( PCM ) is the immediate microniche surrounding cells in various tissues , regulating matrix turnover , cell-matrix interactions , and disease . This study elucidates the structure-mechanical properties and mechanobiology of the PCM in fibrocartilage , using the murine meniscus as the model . The fibrocartilage PCM is comprised of thin , randomly oriented collagen fibrils that entrap proteoglycans , contrasting with the densely packed , highly aligned collagen fibers in the bulk extracellular matrix ( ECM ) . Compared to the ECM , the PCM exhibits lower modulus and greater isotropy , but has similar relative viscoelastic properties . In Col5a1 ( +/- ) menisci , the reduction of collagen V results in thicker , more heterogeneous collagen fibrils , reduced modulus , loss of isotropy and faster viscoelastic relaxation in the PCM . Such altered PCM leads to impaired matrix-to-cell strain transmission , and in turn , disrupts mechanotransduction of meniscal cells , as illustrated by reduced calcium signaling activities and alters expression of matrix genes . In vitro , Col5a1 ( +/- ) cells produce a weakened PCM with inferior properties and reduced protection of cells against tensile stretch . These findings highlight the PCM as a distinctive microstructure in fibrocartilage mechanobiology , underscoring a pivotal role of collagen V in PCM function . Targeting the PCM or its constituents offers potential for improving meniscus regeneration , osteoarthritis intervention and broader fibrocartilage-related therapies .
Reactive mesothelial cells ( RMCs ) are of interest for differentiating mesothelioma from benign conditions and have been discussed in cytology and biopsy ; however , their behavior in the body remains poorly understood . In this study , we report an autopsy case of an older woman with a long-standing pleural effusion due to cardiac disease , providing insights into the relationship between body cavities , and lymphatic vessels ( LVs ) , mesothelial cells ( MCs ) , and endothelial cells . Cytological examination of pleural effusion revealed RMCs with mild atypia , multinucleation , and intercellular phagocytosis . Immunohistochemistry confirmed the mesothelial origin of these cells . Autopsy findings showed extensive involvement of RMCs in the pleura , diaphragm , peritoneum , lymph vessels , and lymph node sinuses . The visceral pleural submesothelial LVs were dilated , had small openings in the thoracic cavity , and were lined with endothelial and mesothelial cells . Large cavernous LVs with MC clusters were observed on the diaphragm . These structures resembled " stomata " or " lacunae , " suggesting a mechanism by which RMCs migrate from the body cavities to the lymphatic network . This study focuses on the RMCs in LVs and shows the contiguity between body cavities and lymphatic networks , providing important insights into the flow of bodily fluids .
In both vertebrates and invertebrates , commissural neurons prevent premature responsiveness to the midline repellant Slit by downregulating surface levels of its receptor Roundabout1 ( Robo1 ) . In Drosophila , Commissureless ( Comm ) plays a critical role in this process ; however , there is conflicting data on the underlying molecular mechanism . Here , we demonstrate that the conserved PY motifs in the cytoplasmic domain of Comm are required allow the ubiquitination and lysosomal degradation of Robo Disruption of these motifs prevents Comm from localizing to Lamp1 positive late endosomes and to promote axon growth across the midline in vivo . In addition , we conclusively demonstrate a role for Nedd4 in midline crossing . Genetic analysis shows that nedd4 mutations result in midline crossing defects in the Drosophila embryonic nerve cord , which can be rescued by introduction of exogenous Nedd Biochemical evidence shows that Nedd4 incorporates into a three-member complex with Comm and Robo1 in a PY motif-dependent manner . Finally , we present genetic evidence that Nedd4 acts with Comm in the embryonic nerve cord to downregulate Robo1 levels . Taken together , these findings demonstrate that Comm promotes midline crossing in the nerve cord by facilitating Robo1 ubiquitination by Nedd4 , ultimately leading to its degradation .
Aims : Hyperammonemia , defined by elevated ammonia levels , may co-occur in various neurological disorders , but its effects on cerebrovascularity are not fully understood . This study aimed to investigate how hyperammonemia affects brain endothelial cells senescence and selected within in silico analysis micro RNA-183-5p in this process . Results : Reduction in cerebrovascular density in hyperammonemia-induced rats , similar to that seen in 12-month-old rats , using von Willebrand factor staining , was observed . MicroRNA ( miRNA ) profile analysis of the brain cortex and plasma identified miRNA-183-5p contributing to endothelial senescence . In vitro studies of ammonia-treated rat brain endothelial cell line 4 showed senescent features , including increased beta-galactosidase activity , higher mRNA levels and fluorescence intensity of p16 and p21 , and altered senescence-associated secretory phenotype . Additionally , the transfection of miRNA-183-5p mimic induced similar senescent characteristics in endothelial cells , whereas miRNA-183-5p mimic inhibition reversed some effects . Innovation : This study is the first to link hyperammonemia-induced cerebrovascular dysfunction with miRNA-183-5p , highlighting its role in promoting endothelial senescence . The findings suggest that miRNA-183-5p could be a target for therapeutic interventions , preventing ammonia-induced brain endothelial dysfunction . Conclusion : Hyperammonemia promotes brain endothelial cells senescence through miRNA-183-5p , reducing cerebrovascular density . This may contribute to cerebral dysfunction seen in hyperammonemia-associated neurological disorders . Targeting miRNA-183-5p could offer a novel therapeutic strategy to mitigate endothelial dysfunction and preserve brain health in hyperammonemia . Antioxid . Redox Signal . 00 , 000- FAU - Orzel-Gajowik , Karolina
BACKGROUND : Mycosis fungoides ( MF ) requires accurate clinical assessment for staging and management . Teledermatology aids remote evaluations , but there is limited data on the use of 3D total body photography ( TBP ) in assessing MF . OBJECTIVE : This study evaluates the accuracy and reliability of assessing a patient with MF using 3D TBP compared to in-person review . METHODS : Thirteen MF patients were evaluated in-person using the modified Severity Weighted Assessment Tool ( mSWAT ) by two dermatologists , and then had 3D TBP taken . 8 weeks later , the dermatologists evaluated the virtual images . Three independent dermatologists reviewed the virtual images twice , 8 weeks apart . Intraclass correlation coefficients ( ICC ) assessed agreement between in-person and virtual assessments and test-retest reliability . RESULTS : There was moderate agreement ( ICC = 71 ) for intra-rater in-person and virtual assessments . Test-retest reliability of virtual assessment was good ( ICC = 79 ) . Evaluating inter-rater agreement between in-person and virtual assessments indicated good agreement ( ICC = 80 ) . LIMITATIONS : 3D TBP could not capture skin on the scalp , beneath clothing and on the soles of the feet , limiting complete assessment . CONCLUSION : Clinical assessment of mSWAT using 3D TBP is as reliable as in-person mSWAT , suggesting its potential in teledermatology . Further studies are needed to validate these findings in larger cohorts .
Human TENT5 family comprises four members ( A-D ) associated with different diseases of secretory cells . Homozygous mutations in TENT5A cause a rare form of osteogenesis imperfecta due to impaired collagen deposition by osteoblasts . TENT5C is frequently mutated or deleted in patients with multiple myeloma , the cancer of antibody-secreting plasma cells , and TENT5D alterations result in male infertility . TENT5 members are noncanonical poly ( A ) polymerases that selectively stabilize mRNAs encoding endoplasmic reticulum-imported proteins , thus promoting the expression of secretory cargoes and proteins involved in folding , glycosylation , and trafficking along the secretory apparatus . This specificity has been proposed to be linked to TENT5 localization at the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum , thanks to their interaction with transmembrane FNDC3 proteins . Recently , key roles of TENT5 proteins have been described in cancer , bone homeostasis , immunity , stemness , and fertility . This review will comprehensively analyze the identified cellular functions of this novel family of secretory tuners in physiological and pathological conditions , highlighting the proposed molecular mechanisms and the remaining open questions .
Anti-programmed cell death-1 ( PD-1 ) immunotherapy has revolutionized the management of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ( cSCC ) . However , most clinical trials have primarily included Caucasian patients , and real-world data on anti-PD-1 therapy for Asian patients remain limited . We conducted a single-center retrospective study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of anti-PD-1 antibodies in patients with advanced cSCC in Japan . We analyzed 14 patients who received pembrolizumab or nivolumab , with a median follow-up of 1 months ( 4-8 months ) . Of these , 13 were male , and 10 had primary tumors in the head and neck region . Ten patients were previously untreated with systemic therapy , and seven had metastatic lesions . Tumor mutational burden ( TMB ) was assessed in seven , six of whom had high TMB . The overall response rate was 1% , with a complete response in 2 patients ( 3% ) and a partial response in 6 patients ( 9% ) . The 1-year progression-free and overall survival rates were 2% ( 95% confidence intervals , 2-6 ) and 1% ( 95% confidence intervals , 1-0 ) , respectively . Adverse events ( AEs ) occurred in 6 of 14 patients ( 9% ) , with one patient ( 1% ) experiencing a grade 3 AE of arthralgia . No grade 4 or higher AEs were observed . The most common AE was adrenal insufficiency , which occurred in 3 patients ( 4% ) . Our real-world data suggest that anti-PD-1 therapy for Asian patients with advanced cSCC demonstrates efficacy and safety comparable to those observed in Caucasian populations .
Inflammatory myopathy ( IM ) and myocarditis are relevant complications of human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection . IM has also been reported in adult cats with experimental feline immunodeficiency virus ( FIV ) infection . The present study investigated naturally FIV-infected cats for IM and myocarditis and further characterized the inflammatory processes and their potential pathogenesis . Snap-frozen skeletal muscle ( quadriceps femoris ( QF ) and triceps brachii ( TB ) muscles ) and myocardial samples from naturally FIV-infected cats and controls were examined histologically and by immunohistochemistry for leukocytes and FIV-p24-gag , and by quantitative reverse transcription PCR ( qRT-PCR ) for the relative transcription of inflammatory mediators . Sera from FIV antibody-positive cats were tested for anti-skeletal muscle autoantibodies by indirect immunofluorescence ( IIF ) . Inflammatory infiltrates were observed in 9/31 ( 35% ) QF and TB muscles and 11/30 ( 37% ) myocardial samples from FIV-infected cats , frequently in combination . The infiltrates were dominated by T-cells , with rare B-cells and macrophages ; several leukocytes harbored FIV-p24-gag . The T-cell count in the QF was positively correlated with the T-cell count in TB and myocardium . Skeletal muscle of FIV-positive animals showed significantly higher transcription of interferon-gamma , tumor necrosis factor-alpha , interleukin ( IL ) -17 , and transforming growth factor-beta than the controls , whereas the myocardium exhibited significantly higher IL-17 and lower IL-13 mRNA levels . IIF showed anti-skeletal muscle autoantibodies in sera of FIV positive cats up to a dilution of 1 : The results show that natural FIV infection is frequently associated with IM and myocarditis and driven by T-cells , with Th1/Th17 polarization of the response . The presence of circulating anti-muscle autoantibodies suggests an underlying autoimmune pathogenesis . FAU - Prisco , Francesco
The Cre/loxP system is widely used for site-specific genetic manipulation in mice . The PgrCremouse model , where Cre recombinase is driven by the progesterone receptor promoter , is commonly used for gene ablation in Pgr-positive uterine cells . However , the PgrCreis active in the neonatal uterus and does not allow temporal control . To enhance the functionality of the PgrCremouse , we generated and characterized an inducible PgriCreERT2mouse , in which iCreERT2is inserted downstream of the endogenous Pgrpromoter . PgriCreERT2mice crossed with Rosa26-CAG-LSL-Sun1-sfGFP-mycreporter mice demonstrated tamoxifen-dependent recombination in uterine stromal fibroblasts and a subset of epithelial cells . Tamoxifen-induced ablation of PGR expression was accomplished by crossing PgriCreERT2mice with the Pgrflox/floxmice . Resulting PgriCreERT2/Pgr : floxand Pgrflox/floxmice were treated with tamoxifen or oil vehicle daily for 3 days and assayed for fertility one month after treatment . Tamoxifen-treated PgriCreERT2/Pgr : floxmice exhibited implantation failure , dysregulation of uterine epithelial and stromal cell proliferation , and loss of decidualization response with no impact on ovulation or embryo transport . A six month breading trial demonstrated that 4/6 tamoxifen-treated PgriCreERT2/Pgr : floxmice were completely infertile , and the remaining 2/6 delivered only 3 total pups each near the end of the trial . In contrast , tamoxifen-treated Cre-negative females were fertile with normal uterine receptivity compared to vehicle controls , indicating that tamoxifen administration with a month-long recovery period did not impair pregnancy . Together , these data demonstrate the utility of this inducible PgriCreERT2mouse model for spatiotemporally controlled gene ablation in Pgr-positive cells of the uterus .
NORHA , a long non-coding RNA ( lncRNA ) , serves as a key inducer of follicular atresia in sows by triggering granulosa cells ( GCs ) apoptosis . However , its regulation by N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) -the most abundant RNA modification-remains unresolved . This study identified NORHA as a functional target of the m6A reader HNRNPA2B1 in sow GCs ( sGCs ) . Transcriptome-wide mapping of RNA modification sites revealed extensive m6A enrichment on NORHA , with HNRNPA2B1 binding directly to the transcript and enhancing its stability via modification of multiple m6A sites , including A261 , A441 , and A HNRNPA2B1 suppressed 17beta-estradiol ( E2 ) biosynthesis and promoted sGC apoptosis by activating the NORHA-FoxO1 axis . FoxO1 subsequently repressed expression of cytochrome P450 family 19 subfamily A member 1 ( CYP19A1 ) , which encodes the enzyme essential for E2 biosynthesis . Additionally , HNRNPA2B1 functioned as a critical mediator of METTL3-dependent m6A modification , modulating NORHA expression and activity in sGCs . This study highlights an important m6A-dependent regulatory mechanism governing NORHA expression in sGCs . FAU - Zhou , Chun-Xue
The DNA replication stress ( RS ) response is crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis and promoting physiological longevity . However , the mechanisms by which long-lived species , such as bats , regulate RS to maintain genomic stability remain unclear . Also , recent studies have uncovered noncanonical roles of ribosome-associated factors in maintaining genomic stability . In this study , somatic skin fibroblasts from the long-lived big-footed bat ( Myotis pilosus ) were examined , with results showing that bat cells exhibited enhanced RS tolerance compared to mouse cells . Comparative transcriptome analysis under RS conditions revealed pronounced species-specific transcriptional differences , including robust up-regulation of ribosome biogenesis genes in bat cells and a markedly reduced activation of the P53 signaling pathway . These features emphasize a distinct homeostatic strategy in bat cells . Nuclear fragile X mental retardation-interacting protein 1 ( Nufip1 ) , a ribosome-associated factor highly expressed in bat fibroblasts , was identified as a potential integrator of ribosomal and P53 signaling via its association with ribosomal protein S27-like ( Rps27l ) . These findings provide direct cellular and molecular evidence for a noncanonical RS response in bats , highlighting a deeper understanding of the biological characteristics and genomic maintenance mechanisms of long-lived species . FAU - Huang , Xiao-Yan
Chorionic gonadotropin alpha ( Cgalpha ) functions as the shared subunit for thyroid-stimulating hormone subunit beta ( Tshbeta ) , luteinizing hormone subunit beta ( Lhbeta ) , and follicle-stimulating hormone subunit beta ( Fshbeta ) . While these beta-subunits have been extensively studied using effective gene knockout models in zebrafish , the biological role of Cgalpha remains elusive . In this study , cgalpha-deficient zebrafish generated via transcription activator-like effector nucleases ( TALENs ) exhibited viability but displayed pronounced developmental abnormalities , including growth retardation , hyperpigmentation , reduced thyroxine ( T4 ) levels , and defective anterior swim bladder inflation during juvenile stages . In adults , cgalpha deficiency led to disrupted gonadal development , impaired secondary sex characteristics ( SSCs ) , and severely impacted reproductive behavior in both female and male fish . Notably , both testicular and ovarian differentiation were observed in cgalpha-deficient fish and lhbeta ( -/- ) ; fshbeta ( -/- ) mutants . Gonadal sex differentiation in cgalpha-deficient zebrafish exhibited a pronounced shift toward testicular fate upon additional disruption of fshbeta ( cgalpha ( -/- ) ; fshbeta ( -/- ) ) , marked by elevated anti-Mullerian hormone ( amh ) expression , or following loss of follicle-stimulating hormone receptor ( fshr ) ( cgalpha ( -/- ) ; fshr ( -/- ) ) . In vitro assays in Chinese hamster ovary ( CHO ) cells revealed increased cAMP response element ( CRE ) promoter activity following transfection with constructs encoding Fshr , Fshbeta/Fshr , or Cgalpha/Fshbeta/Fshr . Collectively , the phenotypes observed in cgalpha-deficient fish recapitulate those of thyrotropin- and gonadotropin-disrupted models , highlighting the essential role of Cgalpha in thyroid and gonadal function . Importantly , these findings uncover the role of Fsh signaling in maintaining proper ovarian differentiation in zebrafish , including Cgalpha-independent Fshbeta activity and the constitutive functionality of Fshr . FAU - Shi , Chuang
Vertebrate limbs have undergone profound morphological diversification , enabling adaptations to a broad spectrum of ecological niches . In marine mammals , the evolution of highly specialized flipper-like forelimbs represents a profound structural transformation associated with aquatic habitats . This adaptation has been hypothesized to result , in part , from the inhibition of interphalangeal cell apoptosis during limb development , although the underlying genetic mechanism remains poorly understood . This study investigated the evolutionary dynamics and functional consequences of three key bone morphogenetic protein genes , BMP2 , BMP4 , and BMP7 , which regulate apoptosis in interphalangeal mesenchymal stromal cells during embryonic limb development to ensure proper differentiation of interphalangeal tissues . Comparative genomic analysis revealed significantly accelerated evolution for BMP4 and BMP7 in the cetacean ancestral lineage , with two positively selected sites ( V79I and H247R ) involved in cetacean-specific amino acid substitutions located in the TGF-beta propeptide functional domain in BMP In vitro assays confirmed that cetacean-specific BMP4 mutations significantly disrupted normal cell apoptosis and proliferation and altered the transcription and protein expression of downstream apoptosis-related factors , including cytochrome c ( Cyt c ) , BCL2 associated X , and B-cell lymphoma 2 , within the BMP signaling pathway . The significant influence of BMP4 mutations on apoptotic inhibition highlights a potential role in the development of limb bud mesenchymal tissue and the emergence of the flipper forelimb phenotype in cetaceans . FAU - Liu , Yao
Salmonella enterica infections , characterized by strong invasiveness , are prone to causing serious systemic transmission , posing a significant threat to public health . This study proposes a " Trojan horse " strategy for oral treatment of Salmonella infection utilizing a " micro-nano composite " platform with intestinal microenvironment responsiveness , host cell targeting , and bacterial membrane fusion characteristics . The oral composite microspheres release silicasomes in response to elevated matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( MMP9 ) levels at infected intestinal sites . The released silicasomes adhere to the intestinal mucus layer , prolonging retention time , and are subsequently internalized into epithelial and macrophage cells via the SR-B1 receptor . Crucially , the membrane fusion lipid layer of the silicasomes fused with the intracellular Salmonella membrane , thereby overcoming the outer membrane barrier of the Gram-negative bacteria . In vivo and in vitro results showed that this process broadened the antibacterial activity of linezolid against Salmonella by more than 16-fold , achieving an intracellular bacterial clearance rate of 85-95% . Moreover , this system repaired intestinal barrier by increasing TJ protein expression by over 70% and reducing inflammatory cytokine levels by more than 80% . Summarily , this ' ' micro-nano composite ' ' platform eradicated Salmonella following a sequential tissue-cell-bacteria order , restored gut microbiota balance , and prevented systemic dissemination , offering a promising solution for intestinal infections . FAU - Chen , Yingxian
Transcription machineries play key roles in nature by regulating diverse cellular processes , including cell cycle progression , the control of intracellular metabolic balance , and cell differentiation and growth . These processes are regulated by the programmed transcription factor-mediated operation of transcription machineries and cellular environmental cues dictating spatiotemporal gene expression , demonstrating amplification and bistable , switchable , and transient dynamic features . Emulating these native pathways through artificial means not only advances the area of Systems Chemistry by providing principles for the evolution of life but also introduces novel catalytic and theranostic applications of the system . The perspective addresses recent advances in developing transcription-machinery-loaded protocell assemblies , consisting of liposomes , microdroplets , proteinsomes , and microcapsules . Stimuli-responsive transcription machineries integrated into liposomes , Fe ( 3+ ) -cross-linked tannic acid membranes , and nucleic acid-functionalized hydrogel microcapsules acting as protocells are triggered by light , redox agents , and switchable refiguration of transcription templates . Moreover , temporally modulated oscillatory transcription circuitries integrated in microemulsion droplets acting as protocells were demonstrated , and the transcription-guided transient assembly and disassembly of DNA nanotubes mimicking formation and dissociation of motor filaments in native cells was accomplished . In addition , the dynamic transcription-mediated diffusive signaling and communication of microdroplets and proteinosome-based protocell assemblies are presented . Future challenges of the topic and potential practical applications of these systems are addressed in the conclusion section . FAU - Dong , Jiantong
PURPOSE : To analyse the clinical benefits of using the NGENUITY 3D Visualization System in vitreoretinal surgery with low levels of endoillumination , focusing on functional and structural retinal protection in patients with idiopathic epiretinal membranes ( ERM ) . DESIGN : Prospective , randomized , comparative study . METHODS : Forty pseudophakic patients ( 29female symbol , 11male symbol ; age 60-80 years ) with ERM underwent 27G pars plana vitrectomy ( PPV ) and were randomly divided into two groups : Group I ( 20 eyes , 3D heads-up NGENUITY system , endoillumination 5 Lm ) and Group II ( 20 eyes , standard microscope [Hi-R 900] , endoillumination 2 Lm ) . Preoperative and 6-months postoperative evaluations included slit-lamp examination , intraocular pressure ( IOP , Pascal tonometer ) , Distance Best Corrected Visual Acuity ( DBCVA , logMAR ) , Central Subfoveal Thickness ( CST ) , Retinal Nerve Fibre Layer Thickness ( RNFL , OCT ) , Pattern ERG ( PERG ) , multifocal ERG ( mfERG ) , flash ERG ( ERG , ISCEV standards ) , and retinal sensitivity ( HFA macula test ) . Surgery time , xenon light exposure , ERM/ILM peeling time , fundus autofluorescence ( FAF ) , metamorphopsia incidence , and intra-/postoperative adverse events were analysed . Results were statistically evaluated ( p < 05 ) . RESULTS : Slit-lamp examination and IOP results were normal in both groups . DBCVA improved significantly ( p = 005 ) in both groups but was better for Group I , albeit not statistically significant . CST and RNFL thickness decreased significantly in both groups ( p = 01 ) and did not differ between them . In Group I , increased cone and ganglion cell function was registered , with PERG showing significantly higher increases in P50 and N95 wave amplitudes ( p = 01 ) compared with Group II . In mfERG , an increase in P1-wave response density in Ring 1 ( p = 01 ) was observed only in Group I . In ERG , Group I showed better rod ( Ab , p = 04 ) , cone ( Aa , p = 03 ) , and amacrine cell ( scotopic OPS summation operatorA01 + A02 + A03 , p = 02 ) function compared with Group II . Foveal threshold in the HFA macula test increased significantly only in Group I ( p = 03 ) . No significant differences were found in autofluorescence results , surgery times , xenon light exposure , or ERM and ILM peeling times between groups . Postoperatively , the frequency of absent or reduced severity of metamorphopsia was higher in Group I ( 4% ) compared with Group II ( 5% ) . No intraoperative or postoperative adverse events occurred . CONCLUSION : Our preliminary results suggest that in patients with idiopathic ERM , 6 months after PPV using the NGENUITY 3D system with low levels of endoillumination , better retinal function was achieved compared with the standard PPV procedure , possibly due to reduced retinal phototoxicity . Further long-term studies are necessary to confirm that conclusion .
Operando/in situ methods have revolutionized our fundamental understanding of molecular and structural changes at solid-liquid interfaces and enabled the vision of " watching chemistry in action " . Operando transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) emerges as a powerful tool to interrogate time-resolved nanoscale dynamics , which involve local electrical fields and charge transfer kinetics distinctly different from those of their bulk counterparts . Despite early reports on electrochemical or heating liquid-cell TEM , developing operando TEM with simultaneous electrochemical and thermal control remains a formidable challenge . Here , we developed operando heating and cooling electrochemical liquid-cell scanning TEM ( EC-STEM ) . By integrating a three-electrode electrochemical circuit and an additional two-electrode thermal circuit , we can investigate heterogeneous electrochemical kinetics across a wide temperature range of -50 to 300 degrees C . We used Cu electrodeposition/stripping processes as a model system to demonstrate quantitative electrochemistry from -40 to 95 degrees C in both transient and steady states in aqueous and organic solutions , which paves the way for investigating energy materials operating in extreme climates . Machine learning-assisted quantitative 4D-STEM structural analysis in cold liquids ( -40 degrees C ) reveals a distinct two-stage growth of nanometer-scale mossy Cu nanoislands with random orientations followed by mum-scale Cu dendrites with preferential orientations . This work benchmarked electrochemistry in the three-electrode EC-STEM and systematically investigated the temperature and pH dependence of the Pt pseudoreference electrode ( RE ) . At room temperature , the Pt pseudo-RE shows a reliable potential of 8 +/- 1 V vs the standard hydrogen electrode and remains pH-independent on the reversible hydrogen electrode scale . We anticipate that operando heating/cooling EC-STEM will become invaluable for understanding fundamental temperature-controlled nanoscale electrochemistry and advancing renewable energy technologies ( e . g . , catalysts and batteries ) in realistic climates . FAU - Kim , Sungin
Although significant advances have been achieved in the biofortification of common beans to overcome deficiencies in Zinc ( Zn ) and iron ( Fe ) , the mechanisms involved remain poorly understood . We thus explored the relationships between phosphorus nutrition and Zn and Fe accumulation in four bean genotypes ( Edar , Nizok , Colorado and Chimbolos ) that nominally show differences in seed Fe and Zn accumulation . In contrast to other genotypes , while phosphorus availability had no effect on seed Fe accumulation , phosphorus and phytate levels were decreased in all lines under phosphorus deficiency . Edar plants had a higher seed yield under low phosphorus conditions than the other lines . Analysis of the seed proteome also revealed that Edar is highly resistant to phosphorus deficiency , with similar seed Fe accumulation but lower phytate levels . The phytic acid-to-Fe molar ratios in Edar seeds produced under low phosphorus nutrition were only twice those of the low phytic acid ( lpa ) beans that have a 90% lower phytic acid content compared to conventional beans . Proteome analysis revealed that sucrose metabolism and phosphate cycling are shifted in the lpa beans . We conclude that a tolerance to phosphate deficiency , particularly in terms of regulation of phosphate cycling and transport pathways , contributes to decreased seed phytic acid-to-Fe molar ratios .
High-capacity lithium-rich manganese-based materials Li ( 20 ) Mn ( 54 ) Ni ( 13 ) Co ( 13 ) O ( LRMs ) are potential cathodes for solid-state lithium batteries with high energy density . However , there are challenges of low initial Coulomb efficiency ( ICE ) and interfacial degradation of the cathode caused by irreversible oxygen release . Here , the oxygen-deficient ceria ( CeO ( 2-x ) ) with abundant oxygen vacancies was used to scavenge excess oxygen species and manipulate the irreversible oxygen evolution of the LRM cathode in the solid-state lithium battery . CeO ( 2-x ) realizes the reversible storage and release of anion oxygen by the oxygen vacancies , and the doping of Ce ( 3+/4+ ) into the lattice stabilizes the structure and enhances the Li ( + ) transport kinetics . Therefore , the cell with a NASICON-type F-doped Li ( 3 ) Al ( 3 ) Ti ( 7 ) ( PO ( 93 ) F ( 07 ) ) ( F-LATP ) solid electrolyte and LRM cathode shows a high ICE of 74% , an outstanding rate performance of 0 mAh g ( -1 ) at 1 C , and a remarkable cyclability with a lower capacity decay rate of 27% per cycle . It is believed that this work provides valuable guidance for the design of reversible oxygen redox in high-capacity LRMs for solid-state batteries . FAU - Gao , Keke
Nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) occurs with high incidence in Southeast Asia where almost all tumors are associated with Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) infection . Cisplatin is used in combination chemotherapy . In this study , we determined that the EBV oncoprotein , latent membrane protein 1 ( LMP1 ) , perturbs DNA damage response ( DDR ) signaling , activation of cell cycle checkpoints , and sensitivity to cisplatin in NPC cells ( HK1 ) . Hypersensitivity was validated by LMP1 knockdown and CRISPR/Cas9 targeting in HK1-EBV cells with latent EBV infection . The conserved PxQxT motif ( in CTAR1 ) and Y384 residue ( in CTAR2 ) were required for the hypersensitivity . Inhibition of ATR ( VE821 or AZD6738 ) , but not ATM ( KU55933 or AZD0156 ) , phenocopied the G1 arrest and hypersensitivity . Attenuation of DDR signaling and hypersensitivity by LMP1 or ATR inhibition was also observed in the C17 NPC cell line with restored stable LMP1 expression . LMP1 expression in NPC tumors is highly variable . Publicly available RNA-sequencing data from microdissected NPC tumors showed that LMP1 expression in the primary tumors was the lowest in cisplatin-treated patients that experienced recurrence . These findings could have clinical significance in stratifying NPC patients such that tumors with limited or variable LMP1 expression might benefit from ATR inhibitor therapy .
INTRODUCTION : Limited treatments are available for the highly mucinous Pseudomyxoma Peritonei ( PMP ) -related ascites . This study assessed the feasibility and efficacy of cell-free ascites reinfusion therapy ( CART ) for PMP-related ascites . METHODS : Patients with PMP who underwent CART between 2017 and 2021 were included . We retrospectively collected clinical data and compared pre- and post-CART clinical features and symptoms . RESULTS : Nine patients with PMP underwent 12 CART sessions . A wild-bore chest tube was used in 25% ( 3/12 ) of sessions , with no severe complications . Abdominal pain and food intake improved in 92% ( 11/12 ) and 42% ( 5/12 ) of sessions , respectively ( median decrease in weight , -4 kg [p = 02] ) . Serum albumin and creatinine levels did not change significantly ( p = 280 vs . p > 500 ) . Mild fever occurred during or after CART in 67% ( 9/12 ) of sessions ; severe complications were not observed . CONCLUSION : CART may be a relatively safe and affordable treatment for PMP-related ascites .
The aim of this study was to investigate the treatment effect of an artificial nerve graft produced with polylactic acid ( PLA ) and polyvinylpyrrolidone ( PVP ) by electrospinning method , in combination with rat allogeneic adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( rAT-MSCs ) , on axonal regeneration in a rat sciatic nerve injury . A 10 mm long gap in the right sciatic nerve was created in rats which were divided into three groups and the gap was repaired with autologous nerve graft ( autograft group ) , PLA/PVP conduit alone ( PLA/PVP group ) , and PLA/PVP conduit with rAT-MSCs inside ( PLA/PVP with rAT-MSC group ) . At the end of the eighth week , the results were evaluated functionally , electrophysiologically , and histologically . In functional evaluation , sciatic functional index ( SFI ) was used and all groups showed improvement over time . The results were seen in the autograft and PLA/PVP with rAT-MSC groups , with no statistically significant difference between them . In electrophysiological evaluation , action potential was seen in all three groups , with the best results seen in the PLA/PVP with rAT-MSC group with statistical significance . Histological evaluation showed axonal regeneration in all three groups . These results show that PLA/PVP conduit contributes to regeneration even when used alone , and increases regeneration when used together with rAT-MSCs .
Hepatitis B virus ( HBV ) covalently closed circular DNA ( cccDNA ) , the transcriptional template in HBV replication , is transcriptionally regulated by multiple host proteins such as epigenetic factors and transcription factors . This study aims to identify novel host proteins interacting with cccDNA and regulating its activity in HBV replication . Mass spectrometry analysis identified 129 host proteins associated with biotinylated cccDNA surrogate HBVcircle . A siRNA library screening demonstrated that knockdown of DNAJC9 , CEBPZ , and EIF3A in HepG2 cells transfected with HBVcircle reduced the levels of HBsAg and HBeAg in the supernatant . Knockdown of DNAJC9 in HBV replication and infection cell models restricted viral replication , while the DNAJC9 overexpression showed an opposite trend . DNA pull-down , cccDNA ChIP , and immunofluorescence experiments indicated that DNAJC9 can bind to cccDNA in a manner independent of histones and specific DNA sequences . Dual luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that knockdown of DNAJC9 reduces the transcriptional activity of HBV promoters and enhancers . Co-IP and cccDNA ChIP experiments showed that DNAJC9 can interact with histone H3 , and knockdown of DNAJC9 reduced H3 , H3K4me3 , and H3K27ac on cccDNA . In the HepAD38 or HepG2-NTCP cells , HBV replication led to a decrease in the cytoplasmic distribution and an increase in the nuclear distribution of DNAJC Histone chaperone DNAJC9 can bind to cccDNA in a histone-independent manner . DNAJC9 upregulates cccDNA transcription and viral replication by increasing the density of H3 , H3K4me3 , and H3K27ac on cccDNA , thereby activating its promoters and enhancers . HBV replication may promote the nuclear localization of DNAJC9 protein , thus facilitating active transcription and replication of HBV .
The discovery of novel candidate molecules that may transform cancer treatment carries significant clinical implications . Codesane ( COD ) , an 18-amino acid peptide extracted from the wild bee venom of Colletes daviesanus , is categorized as a cationic alpha-helical amphipathic antimicrobial peptide . COD , produced via solid-phase peptide synthesis , displayed significant antitumor activity in vitro . However , its application as a drug is restricted by conformational flexibility , poor serum stability , and low selectivity . This research focused on designing , synthesizing , and evaluating a series of stapled COD derivatives by all-hydrocarbon stapling strategy . Compared to the original peptide COD , several of these stapled derivatives showed significant enhancements in alpha-helicity , serum resistance , antitumor activity , and cell selectivity . Significantly , the stapled derivative COD-5 , which possesses high helicity , good serum stability , and favorable selectivity , shows promising potential for novel antitumor drug development , whereas COD-3 , characterized by high selectivity and good antitumor activity , serves as a preferred candidate for novel breast cancer therapeutic drugs . These findings provide a solid foundation for developing innovative and highly effective antitumor therapies .
The majority of the pseudogenes are inert in normal transcription . Their transcripts are mostly attributed to non-coding RNAs that play various functions in human tumorigenicity and progression . Distinctively , pseudogene MT2P1 is universally transcribed in hepatocytes and presents a significant decrease in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . The effect of MT2P1-RNA on HCC cell proliferation and apoptosis needs investigation . MT2P1-RNA was detected by RT-qPCR assay in HCC tissues and cell lines , combined with the exploration of the public databases . The immunohistochemistry assay was used for testing the expression profile of E2F7 and the parental gene MT2A . The clinicopathological features of the patients were collected and analyzed . Ectopic expression of MT2P1-RNA in HCC cell lines was conducted , and the CCK8 assay and flow cytometry assay were carried out . Chromatin immunoprecipitation assay and Dual-luciferase reporter assay were , respectively , applied to validate the interaction between MT2P1 , E2F7 , and microRNA-15b-5p . The downregulation of MT2P1-RNA in HCC is negatively correlated with dismal clinicopathological features . MT2P1-RNA significantly suppressed HCC cell proliferation and induced apoptosis . E2F7 depletion sequentially elevated the level of MT2P1-RNA and MT2A , and E2F7 was validated as a suppressive transcription factor of the MT2P1 gene . The direct interactions of either MT2P1/miR-15b-5p or miR-15b-5p/MT2A were , respectively , ascertained , enlightening the ceRNA effect of them . The pseudogene-derived MT2P1-RNA is a suppressor of HCC by exerting the ceRNA effect on preserving MT2A , and its transcription is regulated by the suppressive transcription factor E2F FAU - Lu , Yiquan
Circulating cell-free DNA ( ccfDNA ) can be found in blood and other biofluids and is a minimally invasive biomarker for several pathological processes . As tumors become more invasive , an increasing amount of circulating tumor DNA ( ctDNA ) is also shed into the peripheral circulation . Combined analysis of ccfDNA and ctDNA has demonstrated prognostic and predictive value in metastatic disease . However , localized tumors shed significantly less ccfDNA/ctDNA and accurate detection remains a technical challenge . To overcome this barrier , droplet preamplification has been used to perform robust multiplexed analysis of low-input samples . To reduce false positives , it is essential to use a high-fidelity polymerase with 3 ' -5 ' exonuclease activity . However , attempts to combine high-fidelity polymerases with commercial droplet digital chemistries have had limited success . There is also no standardized method for efficient amplicon recovery from droplets . In this work , we present a method to reliably stabilize emulsions and recover preamplified templates . We systematically compared our protocol with different destabilization methods and found an average 41% improvement in recovery efficiency . We anticipate that this standardized method will increase the consistency and reproducibility of ccfDNA/ctDNA analyses . This technique could be readily translated to other low-input or low-biomass samples , such as urine , saliva , or archived biopsy specimens . FAU - Skeen , Colin
Study DesignSystematic review and meta-analysis . ObjectivesThe objective of this study was to conduct a systematic review and meta-analysis of the literature regarding the therapeutic effect of embryonic and mesenchymal stem cells on the treatment of traumatic spinal cord injury ( SCI ) in humans . Primary outcome measures were overall American Spinal Injury Association ( ASIA ) scores , ASIA motor and sensory scores , urinary and bowel function , pain , and adverse events . MethodsStudies with human patients ages 18-80 years receiving embryonic , induced pluripotent , or mesenchymal stem cells for SCI were included . Study quality was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias 2 tool and the Newcastle Ottawa scale for randomized and non-randomized studies , respectively . Primary outcomes were overall ASIA grade , ASIA motor scores , ASIA sensory scores , bladder and bowel function , pain , and adverse events . ResultsThirty total studies with 656 patients were included , with 3% of patients experiencing improvement in ASIA grade , 4% in motor function , and 6% in sensory function . Qualitative analysis of bladder and bowel outcomes suggests overall improved sensation and control . No serious adverse events were reported . The most common side effects were mild and resolved within hours to weeks without requiring additional medical treatment . ConclusionsStem cell transplantation for SCI appears to offer moderate improvements in overall ASIA grade , motor , sensory , bladder , and bowel function , accompanied by a relatively mild and transient side effect profile . Further research , particularly high-quality , blinded , randomized controlled trials , is essential to optimize treatment protocols and achieve more consistent and improved clinical outcomes . FAU - Troiani , Zachary
Time-resolved scanning probe microscopy methods , like time-resolved electrostatic force microscopy ( trEFM ) , enable imaging of dynamic processes ranging from ion motion in batteries to electronic dynamics in microstructured thin film semiconductors for solar cells . Reconstructing the underlying physical dynamics from these techniques can be challenging due to the interplay of cantilever physics with the actual transient kinetics of interest in the resulting signal . Previously , quantitative trEFM used empirical calibration of the cantilever or feed-forward neural networks trained on simulated data to extract the physical dynamics of interest . Both these approaches are limited by interpreting the underlying signal as a single exponential function , which serves as an approximation but does not adequately reflect many realistic systems . Here , we present a multibranched , multioutput convolutional neural network ( CNN ) that uses the trEFM signal in addition to the physical cantilever parameters as input . The trained CNN accurately extracts parameters describing both single-exponential and biexponential underlying functions and more accurately reconstructs real experimental data in the presence of noise . This work demonstrates an application of physics-informed machine learning to complex signal processing tasks , enabling more efficient and accurate analysis of trEFM . FAU - Breshears , Madeleine D
Current vaccines rely on the sequence of Spike ( S ) protein to induce immunity against the severe acute respiratory coronavirus-2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) virus . Because of the high mutation rate of the viral S protein , new mutant strains are developed to generate new infectivity profiles . Bioactive lipid mediators ( LMs ) derived from docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) are synthesized on demand to sustain homeostasis . The purpose of this study was to determine the action of selected LMs in the viral replication of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA . 5 variant in human lung and nasal epithelial cells . Cells from healthy donors were infected with Omicron BA . 5 for one hour and treated with 500 nM Elovanoid ( ELV ) -N32 , ELV-N34 , Resolvin D6 isomer ( RvD6i ) , Neuroprotection D1 ( NPD1 ) , or vehicle before and after infection . Impedance was recorded to determine cell death by infectivity . Cells were then immunostained for nucleocapsid ( N ) protein , microtubule-associated protein 1B-light chain 3 ( LC3B ) , and autophagic proteins . N and S RNA were measured to assess the synthesis of viral components . The addition of ELV-N34 or RvD6i decreased the synthesis of N RNA by 7% and 9% , respectively , in lung primary culture , while NPD1 exerted the same effect in nasal epithelial cells ( 7% reduction ) . In lung cells , transcription of autophagy-related gene-3 ( ATG3 ) and Sequestosome 1 ( SQSTM1/p62 ) , components of the autophagy initiation process , decreased compared to the non-treated infected cells . The results suggest that specific LMs prevent viral autophagy machinery hijacking , leading to a decrease in BA . 5 replication . This novel effect of the bioactive LMs as antivirals , regardless of the protein sequence , would potentially complement vaccination and other prevention and treatment therapeutics .
The molecular design of inhibitors against intracellular protein-protein interactions ( PPIs ) is of interest for drug discovery and chemical biology . Here , we designed a novel cyclized helix-loop-helix ( cHLH ) peptide that inhibited the intracellular PPI between estrogen receptor alpha ( ERalpha ) and coactivator SRC The peptide , cHLH-ERalpha , bound to ERalpha and inhibited the interaction between ERalpha and the coactivator SRC Cellular imaging and yeast reporter assays showed that cHLH-ERalpha penetrated the cell membrane and exhibited antagonistic activity against ERalpha-SRC1 to inhibit the growth of a breast cancer cell .
Rapid advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies have led to the fast accumulation of high-dimensional data , which is harnessed for understanding the implications of various factors on human disease and health . While dimension reduction plays an essential role in high-dimensional regression and classification , existing methods often require the predictors to be continuous , making them unsuitable for discrete data , such as presence-absence records of species in community ecology and sequencing reads in single-cell studies . To identify and estimate sufficient reductions in regressions with discrete predictors , we introduce probabilistic exponential family inverse regression ( PrEFIR ) , assuming that , given the response and a set of latent factors , the predictors follow one-parameter exponential families . We show that the low-dimensional reductions result not only from the response variable but also from the latent factors . We further extend the latent factor modeling framework to the double exponential family by including an additional parameter to account for the dispersion . This versatile framework encompasses regressions with all categorical or a mixture of categorical and continuous predictors . We propose the method of maximum hierarchical likelihood for estimation , and develop a highly parallelizable algorithm for its computation . The effectiveness of PrEFIR is demonstrated through simulation studies and real data examples .
Developing highly fluorescent biogenic carbon dots ( CDs ) as molecular probes and cellular imaging agents with excellent cellular biocompatibility and water dispersibility can advance the scope of CDs in various biomedical applications . The present work aims to produce CDs from biological precursors such as natural amino acids . Due to their molecular recognition properties , the resultant CDs exhibit biocompatibility , polar functional groups , and selective molecule sensing . Microwave ( MW ) -assisted carbonization of L-tryptophan , L-glutamic acid , and their mixture led to the formation of CDs . However , the CDs derived from the mix of amino acids exhibited strong emission at 450 nm , with a quantum yield of 3% , and showed excellent stability under wide pH conditions . These CDs have a crystalline graphitic core , predominantly derived from the carbonization of the aromatic moiety intrinsic to L-tryptophan amino acid , while the partial carbonization of L-glutamic acid led to anchor polar functional groups on the CDs surface . These CDs were established as molecular probes for sensing the biomolecule cysteamine with enhanced sensitivity and remarkable cross-selectivity among the interfering metal ions , anions , and other thiols . To demonstrate these materials ' cellular biocompatibility , the cell viability of MCF-7 and fibroblast cells was studied following their exposure to CDs . The studies revealed that the fluorescent CDs did not elicit cytotoxic effects on the cells at elevated concentrations . The CDs from the mixture of amino acids were efficiently internalized by MCF-7 cells , enabling efficient imaging of live cells . Overall , this study developed biogenic and cellular biocompatible CDs with robust luminescent properties and demonstrated their applications in biomolecular sensing , cellular uptake , and imaging . FAU - P N , Navya
Although second allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation HCT ( HCT2 ) is a potentially curative treatment for patients relapsing after their first HCT ( HCT1 ) , it is associated with higher non-relapse mortality ( NRM ) compared with HCT Furthermore , while reduced-intensity conditioning ( RIC ) in HCT2 might decrease NRM , there is no consensus on which patients may benefit from RIC . We retrospectively analyzed 2478 patients who underwent HCT2 for relapse of hematologic malignancies after HCT In a multivariate analysis , older recipient age , short duration between HCT1 and HCT2 , RIC in HCT1 , HCT-CI >/= 2 , and ECOG PS >/= 2 were associated with an increased risk of NRM . RIC in HCT2 was associated with better NRM compared to myeloablative conditioning ( MAC ) ( hazard ratio [HR] 83 , 95% confidence interval [CI] : 72-97 ; p = 018 ) , but was not significantly associated with overall survival ( OS ) ( HR 91 , 95% CI : 82-01 ; p = 075 ) . We observed a significant interaction for NRM between extensive cGVHD in HCT1 and the conditioning intensity of HCT2 ( interaction p < 001 ) , meaning that the benefit of RIC in HCT2 was seen in patients with extensive cGVHD in HCT1 , but not in those without cGVHD . RIC in HCT2 was also associated with superior OS in patients with extensive cGVHD in HCT1 ( HR 68 , 95% CI : 49-93 ; p = 02 ) , with significant interaction between the conditioning intensity and the prior history of extensive cGVHD ( interaction p = 01 ) . This study suggests that RIC in HCT2 reduces NRM for HCT2 and improves OS , especially in patients with a history of extensive cGVHD .
All-trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) is a promising therapeutic for the treatment of a wide range of cancers . However , its short half-life , poor water-solubility , and low stability in vivo hinder its use . The development of injectable controlled release systems for ATRA delivery can potentially address these challenges . Building on a poly ( caprolactone-co-lactide ) -poly ( ethylene glycol ) -poly ( caprolactone-co-lactide ) ( PCLA-PEG-PCLA ) triblock copolymer system that undergoes thermo-responsive gelation at 37 degrees C , we explore and compare different approaches to stabilize the gels through covalent bonding . The attempted cross-linking of methacrylate end-capped PCLA-PEG-PCLA through thiol-Michael addition reactions using small molecule and 4-arm-PEG thiols led to precipitation rather than gelation . However , azide end-capped PCLA-PEG-PCLA was gelled using 5 kg mol ( -1 ) 4-arm-PEG with terminal dibenzocyclooctyne ( DIBAC ) groups by strain-promoted azide-alkyne cycloaddition . This hydrogel was then compared with previously reported methacrylate end-capped PCLA-PEG-PCLA hydrogels cross-linked by free radical chemistry , as well as non-covalently cross-linked hydrogels . The azide-alkyne hydrogels exhibited properties intermediate between the free radical and non-covalently cross-linked gels . Incorporation of ATRA substantially disrupted the free radical cross-linking , but imparted only modest changes in the azide-alkyne gels . ATRA was released over about two weeks . The proliferation of MDA-MB-468 cells in the presence of ATRA-loaded and control azide-alkyne gels was investigated . The ATRA-loaded gel released active drug , while the unloaded gel did not affect proliferation . FAU - Mei , Xueli
Botrylloides diegensis is a colonial ascidian that has been the focus of developmental , evolutionary , and regeneration research . In this study , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) of an entire B . diegensis colony , including zooids , buds , and vascular tunics , to resolve cellular heterogeneity and identify cell and tissue markers . We identified 29 major cell clusters within the colony and used in situ hybridization to examine the spatial expression of cluster marker genes . Numerous tissue types were identified at the molecular level , including blood cells and zooid tissues such as the branchial epithelium , stomach , and endostyle . Distinct cluster markers were identified for specific regions of the stomach epithelium , highlighting the specialization of these regions and the strength of using scRNA-seq to explore their functionality . Cell trajectory projections highlighted the early appearance of progenitor clusters , whereas more differentiated zooid-related tissues appeared later in the developmental path . This study provides a valuable resource for understanding the development , tissue function , and regeneration of B . diegensis . It demonstrates the power of scRNA-seq to define cell types and tissues in complex colonial organisms .
The antiviral enzyme cholesterol 25-hydroxylase ( CH25H ) and its metabolite 25-hydroxycholesterol ( 25HC ) , which modulates cholesterol metabolism during infection , have been associated with vascular pathology . Viral infections have been linked to intracerebral haemorrhage ( ICH ) risk , but the molecular mechanisms leading to ICH via antiviral responses remain unknown . We hypothesised that the CH25H/25HC pathway impacts neuroendothelial integrity in the context of infection-associated ICH . Using a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) spike protein-induced zebrafish ICH model and foetal human SARS-CoV-2-associated cortical tissue containing microbleeds , we identified upregulation of CH25H in infection-associated cerebral haemorrhage . Using zebrafish models and human brain endothelial cells , we asked whether 25HC promotes neurovascular dysfunction by modulating cholesterol metabolism . We found that 25HC and pharmacological inhibition of cholesterol synthesis had an additive effect to exacerbate brain bleeding in zebrafish and in vitro neuroendothelial dysfunction . 25HC-induced dysfunction was also rescued by cholesterol supplementation in vitro . These results demonstrate that 25HC can dysregulate brain endothelial function by remodelling cholesterol metabolism . We propose that CH25H/25HC plays an important role in the pathophysiology of brain vessel dysfunction associated with infection and cholesterol dysregulation in the context of ICH .
Pathological cardiac hypertrophy leads to heart failure . In this study , we aimed to explore the role of transmembrane protein Tspan9 in the development of cardiac hypertrophy and failure . We found that Tspan9 was upregulated in the hearts of patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( HCM ) , in the hearts of mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction ( TAC ) , as well as in phenylephrine-induced hypertrophic neonatal rat cardiomyocytes ( NRCMs ) . AAV9-mediated overexpression ( OE ) of Tspan9 in mouse hearts augmented TAC-induced cardiac hypertrophy and failure , while Tspan9 knockdown ( KD ) alleviated this effect . Tspan9-OE promotes PE-induced cardiomyocyte enlargement , whereas Tspan9-KD suppresses it . Mechanistically , we demonstrated that Tspan9 interacts with p62 , a pivotal regulator of autophagy , impairs its cargo function , leading to autophagy suppression . Remarkably , the anti-hypertrophic effect of Tspan9-KD was impaired when autophagy was inactivated or p62 was knocked down . These findings suggest that Tspan9 exacerbates pressure overload-induced pathological cardiac hypertrophy and failure by suppressing cardiac autophagy through its interaction with p
The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) , particularly the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) , plays a critical role in cancer progression . Focusing on ovarian cancer , Yuan et al . reveal an ECM-dependent signaling axis where cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) enhance the invasiveness of cancer cells via Rab25-driven upregulation of the protease ADAMTS This process is only triggered in the presence of native ECM . In turn , stimulated cancer cells favor CAF invasiveness through a mechanism that remains to be identified . These findings uncover a bidirectional crosstalk between cancer cells and CAFs and highlight the importance of context-specific in vitro models to decipher ECM-mediated tumor dynamics .
In mammals , commitment to the testis fate is controlled by the gene Sry on the Y chromosome ; however , how Sry is regulated is not well understood . In the red-eared slider turtle , Dmrt1 acts as the primary activator of the testis pathway . Removal of the repressive histone modification H3K27me3 from Dmrt1 by the histone demethylase KDM6B is required for its activation . We hypothesized that a similar de-repression mechanism is utilized in mammals to activate the testis pathway . Using a mouse knock-out model for Kdm6b , we found that loss of Kdm6b leads to a delay in Sry activation and the development of an ovotestis . These results implicate KDM6B as a conserved regulator at the top of the sex determination cascade in both reptiles and mammals .
Approximately one in 3500 to one in 5100 live-born infants have atypical external genital development , known as differences in sex development ( DSD ) . In 2005 , an expert consensus conference thoroughly reviewed aspects of health care for individuals with DSD . The conference proposed a classification system to help provide individualized evaluations and management . Some types of DSD are associated with germ cell tumors , which comprise a heterogeneous group of neoplasms derived from germline cells . These neoplasms commonly occur in infants , children , adolescents , and young adults . Herein , an overview of DSDs and risks for germ cell tumors is provided .
In diabetes , the level of glyoxal ( GO ) , a highly reactive oxoaldehyde increases from its normal value . GO reacts with various proteins and produces advanced glycated end products ( AGEs ) . Living cells contain densely packed biomolecules , which exert crowding effects that may take up 20-40% of the entire volume of a cell . Molecular crowding significantly influences various cellular processes by affecting the behavior of molecules within the crowded intracellular environment , impacting protein folding , stability , interactions , and ultimately , the function of many biological pathways . Thus , it essentially acts as a key regulator of cellular activity within a confined space . The effect of the molecular crowding environment on the process of hemoglobin ( Hb ) glycation was studied in this work . Polyethylene glycol 200 ( PEG 200 ) was used as a crowding agent . To execute the study , Hb was incubated with GO for a week at 37 degrees C in the presence of different percentages of PEG Glycated Hb exhibited high absorbance at 280 nm , high turbidity , high browning , and a high melting temperature compared to the control Hb . Glycated Hb also showed higher thioflavin T ( ThT ) fluorescence and higher AGE fluorescence than the control Hb . Additionally , CD results indicated alterations in the secondary structures of glycated Hb . These glycation-mediated structural alterations of Hb can be reversed in a highly molecular crowded environment . A melting experiment performed on glycated Hb showed a small entropy change , indicating that the intermediate conformational transition is independent of entropic factors . Thus , the molecular crowding environment plays a significant role in preventing Hb from becoming glycated . This study may provide insight into the actual glycation scenario inside the human body . FAU - Burman , Mangal Deep
BACKGROUND : The large amount of data on COVID-19 vaccination hesitancy presents a unique opportunity to better understand COVID-19 vaccination uptake . However , the utility of this data is unclear , particularly how representative the surveys are of general populations , how easy the data is to use , and how valid the outcome ( intent to be vaccinated ) is . We explored this in the World Bank ' s high frequency phone surveys ( HFPS ) . METHODS : The HFPS were conducted longitudinally in over 50 countries between 2020- A subset of the HFPS contained questions on vaccination hesitancy . We compared the demographic results from four surveys against the most recent census to determine the representativeness of the sample and vaccination intent/actual vaccination against government-reported vaccination rates . RESULTS : While the surveys were generally representative of population sizes and the rural/urban split , they tended to over-sample men and older people and omitted several key indicators . We also found that self-reported vaccination rates were higher than actual vaccination rates . CONCLUSIONS : It is important to consider challenges in the HFPS data and other datasets which measure vaccination acceptance by phone surveys . It is also important to consider the ease of data use . However , even when these challenges arise , there are still opportunities for meaningful use of the data .
BACKGROUND : Introduction of letermovir ( LMV ) as prophylaxis for cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) infection has decreased the number of clinically significant CMV infections ( cs-CMVi ) in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) recipients . However , long-term , real-world data on LMV ' s impact on post-transplant outcome remain scarce . RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : The aim of our study was to evaluate clinical outcome of 93 CMV-seropositive patients who received LMV prophylaxis and to compare them to 168 LMV-free recipients . RESULTS : CMV reactivation was less frequently observed in LMV group if compared to LMV-free control . Twelve patients ( 17% ) and 71 ( 42% ) reactivated CMV in LMV-treated and LMV-free patients , respectively . The cumulative incidence of cs-CMVi was lower in LMV group compared to control [37% vs . 63%] . The incidence of severe acute graft-versus-host disease ( aGVHD ) was also lower in LMV-treated patients ( 6% vs . 21% ) . Overall survival , non-relapse mortality and progression-free survival at 24 months were comparable . No risk factors for post-transplant CMV reactivation were identified in LMV group , whereas unrelated donor , donor-negative/recipient-positive CMV-serostatus , and presence of severe aGVHD were associated with higher risk of CMV reactivation in LMV-free control . CONCLUSIONS : LMV as CMV primary prophylaxis has a beneficial effect on post HSCT outcome decreasing the incidence of severe aGVHD and cs-CMV reactivation . FAU - Wlodarczyk , Martyna
BACKGROUND : Epidermolysis bullosa simplex ( EBS ) is a hereditary skin fragility disorder caused by missense pathogenic variants in KRT5 or KRT These variants trigger the collapse of the cytoskeleton into cytoplasmic protein aggregates , which renders the epidermis highly susceptible to mechanical stress and leads to intraepidermal blistering and loss of intercellular cohesion . Currently , no molecular therapies for EBS exist . OBJECTIVES : Characterization of K5 or K14 mutant keratinocytes , from patients with EBS , in response to PKC412 treatment in monolayer culture and in epidermal equivalents . This clarifies the potential of PKC412 as a drug repurposing therapy approach in EBS . METHODS : We conducted a comprehensive characterization of K5 and K14 mutant keratinocytes in response to PKC412 , examining its effects on proliferation , wound closure , and apoptosis . Additionally , we evaluated the improvement of intercellular cohesion through stretch assays , epithelial sheet assays , and assessment of desmosomal organization . Finally , we investigated the efficacy of PKC412 application in both skin explants and EBS-derived epidermal equivalent cultures . RESULTS : We demonstrated that PKC412 is effective in various keratinocytes carrying pathogenic variants associated with localized , generalized , or intermediate forms of EBS . PKC412 enhanced intercellular adhesion in both immortalized normal and EBS keratinocytes , as well as normal primary keratinocytes , and under stretch conditions . Immunoblot analyses revealed a concentration-dependent reduction in desmoplakin phosphorylation , which remained stable over the course of three days at the sites investigated . Additionally , application of PKC412 in epidermal equivalent cultures restored desmoplakin distribution in the epidermal basal layer . CONCLUSIONS : PKC412 markedly enhanced intercellular cohesion and stress resilience in patient-derived EBS keratinocytes , both in monolayer and 3D culture systems . These findings highlight PKC412 as a promising therapeutic candidate for the treatment of EBS .
Based on the self-assembly of conjugated polymers ( CPs ) with paclitaxel constructed as nanoparticles ( NPs ) exhibiting luminescence properties through the AILE mechanism , a novel type of pH-responsive nanoparticle was developed , featuring a color change that indicated drug molecule release . The nanoparticles ( NPs ) characterized by their AILE luminescence were straightforward to prepare , exhibited exceptional stability , and demonstrated a high drug loading capacity and a sensitive drug release profile under acidic conditions . These NPs could release drugs within cellular lysosomes in response to acidic environments , thereby triggering apoptosis in cancer cells . Furthermore , the release of the drug can be monitored by observing changes in the fluorescence color , which serves as an indicator signal . Additionally , by investigating the molecular interactions between PFOP-NEt3 ( + ) and paclitaxel , we have proposed a novel mechanism for the induction of AILE luminescence . FAU - Huang , Shouhui
Carbon dots ( CDs ) are emerging as next-generation bioimaging agents due to their strong fluorescence , photobleaching resistance , and biocompatibility . However , their small size often limits efficient cell internalization , leading to unspecified cellular targets and high endosomal escape . Herein , we showcase the potential of pepsin , a simple proteolytic enzyme , to address the limitations of CDs through its covalent conjugation and subsequent creation of CD-pepsin nanoparticles ( NPs ) . Interestingly , repeated failures in achieving CD-pepsin NPs prompted us to explore machine learning ( ML ) , which , in a novel approach , successfully predicted the most favourable conditions for their formation . These nanoparticles unlocked two critical functionalities beyond enhanced imaging : visible light-induced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation and sustained drug delivery , highlighting their potential for chemo-photodynamic combination therapy . The photophysical properties of the green-emissive CDs , synthesized from 3-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid , were significantly enhanced through covalent conjugation with pepsin . This enhancement was evident in the efficient confocal imaging of human macrophage cells ( THP1 cells ) using both the CD-pepsin covalent conjugate and CD-pepsin NPs . Beyond enhancing the imaging potential of CDs by stabilizing their surface states through covalent conjugation with pepsin , this modification also significantly increased ROS generation , surpassing conventional photosensitizers like protoporphyrin ( PpIX ) . Irradiation of the cells with a simple 23 W white LED induced increased oxidative stress , leading to reduced cell viability . Simultaneously , the CD-pepsin NPs functioned as a drug delivery vehicle , enabling the sustained release of the model drug , doxorubicin , over 4-5 days . These combined functionalities-bioimaging , photosensitization , and drug delivery-highlight CD-pepsin NPs as a versatile and effective multipurpose platform , overcoming key limitations of pristine CDs for advanced theranostics . FAU - Banerjee , Subhrajeet
Sweet potato is a vital crop worldwide , but its storage roots are susceptible to infection by numerous fungal pathogens , leading to substantial postharvest losses . In this study , a highly pathogenic fungal strain was isolated from infected sweet potato storage roots . Through morphological and molecular characterization , the strain was identified as Trichoderma hamatum , representing the first report of this species as a sweet potato pathogen . The botanical compound magnolol exhibited a strong antifungal activity against T . hamatum , demonstrating an excellent protective efficacy against the pathogen-induced disease . Electron microscopy analyses indicated that magnolol could effectively disrupt ultrastructure of T . hamatum . Transcriptomic analyses revealed multiple biological pathways modulated by magnolol . In particular , magnolol could damage the cell membrane integrity of T . hamatum and disturb its energy metabolism . These findings provide critical insights for managing postharvest diseases of sweet potato and highlight the potential of magnolol as a natural antifungal agent for food preservation . FAU - Peng , Guanxing
OBJECTIVE : Ligustrazine ( LSZ ) , an ingredient of Ligusticum chuanxiong , has long been used to treat neurovascular diseases in China . This study investigates its protective effects for the impairment of the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) and the underlying mechanisms . METHODS : In this study , the impacts of LSZ on the BBB function were firstly assessed in b . End3 cells in vitro . Oxygen-glucose deprivation ( OGD ) served as an injury factor and western blot ( WB ) analyzed the expressions of occludin and ZO-1 , two tight junction proteins ( TJs ) , essential for maintaining the integrity of the BBB . After bioinformatics analysis of the transcriptome in vivo , qRT-PCR of miR-297c-5p was conducted and a dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to verify the target protein , occludin , which was confirmed by hippocampal insertion using guide cannulas and microinfection of RNA oligos . RESULTS : A 3-h deprivation of OGD of b . End3 cells resulted in noticeable reductions in the level of occludin and ZO- However , administration of LSZ ( 1 muM ) effectively restored these decreases . In normal mice , administration of LSZ ( 25 mg/kg , i . p . , once daily for 9 days ) resulted in a notable reduction in miR-297c-5p . In the middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) mouse model , increased miR-297c-5p was also reversed by LSZ administration . Bioinformatics analysis revealed one of the targets of miR-297c-5p includes occludin . MiR-297c-5p was found to directly target occludin in the dual-luciferase reporter assay . Transfection of miR-297c-5p agomir into b . End3 cells resulted in a significant reduction in the level of occludin , while transfection of antagomir led to an increase in occludin . Besides , stereotaxic injection of AAV-miR-297c-5p into the hippocampus reduced occludin level in vivo . Ultimately , hippocampal microinfection of RNA oligos provided a confirmation that miR-297c-5p was downregulated by LSZ in MCAO mice with up-regulated occludin expression . CONCLUSION : In conclusion , the present findings provide new insights into regulating occludin by LSZ through downregulation of miR-297c-5p .
Iron-based phosphate cathode materials exhibit excellent cost-effectiveness and performance advantages , making them promising for large-scale applications in sodium-ion batteries . However , industrial efforts to enhance the energy density of battery packs by coating high-loading electrodes often lead to poor wettability and low conductivity , significantly impacting the performance . Herein , this work successfully fabricated an in situ carbon-coated porous NaFe ( 55 ) ( PO ) PO ( NFP/600 ) cathode , which exhibits a unique capillary effect when in contact with the electrolyte , enhancing the wettability of the NFP/600 electrode . While the porous structure and carbon coating improve ion and electron transport capabilities , significantly improving the kinetic performance . Consequently , the initial discharge capacity of the NFP/600 cathode reaches 6 mAh g ( -1 ) at a rate of 5 C , with a capacity retention of 9 mAh g ( -1 ) after 2500 cycles . Even with a loading exceeding 10 mg cm ( -2 ) , the NFP/600 electrode achieves a discharge specific capacity of 83 mAh g ( -1 ) at 1 C , retaining 4% of its capacity after 460 cycles . Furthermore , the full cell pairing NFP/600 with hard carbon demonstrated a discharge specific capacity of 9 mAh g ( -1 ) at 1 C , maintaining stable cycling over 200 cycles . These findings provide a promising pathway for the design of low-cost , high-performance phosphate cathode materials . FAU - Wang , Yang
The removal of host cell proteins ( HCPs ) is crucial in biopharmaceutical production , as residual impurities can impact product safety and efficacy . While a number of studies have demonstrated that depth filtration can provide significant HCP removal , there is little information on its effectiveness in removing specific HCPs . This study examines the application of liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) to track HCP removal during depth filtration , providing a detailed analysis of HCP behavior with two commercial depth filters . Our findings reveal significant variability in HCP breakthrough behavior , with transmission patterns showing minimal correlation with either the protein isoelectric point or hydrophobicity , highlighting the unique behavior of individual HCPs . Both the X0SP and X0HC depth filters achieved almost complete removal of Lipoprotein Lipase , and the X0SP filter also effectively removed Lysosomal Acid Lipase ( LAL ) , both known to degrade polysorbate in monoclonal antibody formulations . However , neither filter provided significant removal of Alpha-enolase , Carboxypeptidase D , Glutathione S-transferase , or Phospholipase B-like The X0SP filter showed equal or better removal for 18 out of 20 problematic HCPs , with greater HCP removal seen at lower conductivity . This work provides a detailed framework for understanding and optimizing depth filtration processes , offering insights into the effectiveness of depth filters for removal of problematic HCPs .
Inflammatory changes in perivascular adipose tissue are associated with atherosclerotic lesions in the adjacent artery and can also be used as a marker in patient workup . While adipocyte size is known to be closely related to adipose tissue dysfunction and inflammation , it has not been widely studied in perivascular adipose tissue obtained from healthy human subjects without clinical atherosclerosis . In this cross-sectional study , we addressed this issue by measuring adipocyte size and defining its relationship to cardiovascular risk factors in a healthy cohort of living kidney donors . The presence of cardiovascular risk factors was established by a standardized questionnaire , clinical measurements and body composition analyses . Adipocyte size was measured in the perivascular depot . The proportions of various macrophage subtypes were determined by flow cytometry . To confirm the results , the proportion of CD68 + macrophages was additionally assessed by immunohistochemistry . A correlation and principal component analyses were performed to explore associations . Adipocyte size in perivascular adipose tissue correlated with markers of lipid metabolism , inflammation , and glucose metabolism . Further , the positive correlation with the pro-inflammatory subpopulation of macrophages suggests a strong local effect of perivascular adipose tissue . Perivascular adipocyte size was associated with cardiovascular risk factors and markers of inflammation in a healthy cohort of living kidney donors . This further supports the local role of adipose tissue dysfunction and inflammation in early atherosclerosis development and detection . FAU - Bartuskova , Hana
BACKGROUNDS : 11 , 12-Diacetyl-carnosol ( DACA ) , a derivative of carnosol , exhibits significant anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties . However , its antidepressant effects and underlying mechanisms remain unclear . High mobility group box 1 protein ( HMGB1 ) -mediated inflammatory responses and associated neurofunctional impairments play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of depression . This study aimed to investigate whether DACA exerts anti-inflammatory and antidepressant effects and whether its mechanisms involve the HMGB1/NF-kappaB/NLRP3 signaling pathway . METHODS : A depression model was established in mice through 6 weeks of chronic unpredictable mild stress ( CUMS ) . From the 4th week of stimulation , the treatment group received DACA for 3 weeks . BV2 cells were stimulated with LPS+ATP , and the treatment group was cultured in DACA medium for 24 h . Supernatants from BV2 cells were used to culture primary neurons . To confirm the critical role of HMGB1 in DACA ' s antidepressant effects , CUMS-stressed mice were treated with glycyrrhizin ( GZA ) or the DACA+GZA combination . Depressive-like behaviors were evaluated using the sucrose preference test ( SPT ) , open field test ( OFT ) , tail suspension test ( TST ) , forced swim test ( FST ) , and Morris water maze ( MWM ) . Hippocampal microglial cell and primary neuron morphology were assessed by immunofluorescence , and dendritic spine density in hippocampal neurons was examined using Golgi staining . IL-6 and TNF-alpha concentrations in mouse serum and BV2 supernatant were measured by ELISA . Western blotting was used to detect protein expressions of HMGB1 , NF-kappaB p65 , p-NF-kappaB p65 , NLRP3 , and IL-1beta in the hippocampus and BV2 cells . RESULTS : CUMS-exposed mice showed decreased sucrose preference , increased immobility in TST and FST , prolonged escape latency in MWM , and reduced crossings . Microglial activation and upregulation of HMGB1 , NF-kappaB p65 , p-NF-kappaB p65 , NLRP3 , and IL-1beta were observed in both CUMS-stressed mice and LPS+ATP-induced BV2 cells , with reduced dendritic spine density in the hippocampus . DACA significantly reversed these phenomena . The effects of DACA were comparable to those of GZA treatment , and no changes were observed with the DACA+GZA combination . CONCLUSION : The HMGB1/NF-kappaB/NLRP3 signaling pathway is involved in DACA ' s therapeutic effects on depression .
IMPORTANCE : Nontraumatic subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) represents the third most common stroke type with unique etiologies , risk factors , diagnostics , and treatments . Nevertheless , epidemiological studies often cluster SAH with other stroke types leaving its distinct burden estimates obscure . OBJECTIVE : To estimate the worldwide burden of SAH . DESIGN , SETTING , AND PARTICIPANTS : Based on the repeated cross-sectional Global Burden of Disease ( GBD ) 2021 study , the global burden of SAH in 1990 to 2021 was estimated . Moreover , the SAH burden was compared with other diseases , and its associations with 14 individual risk factors were investigated with available data in the GBD 2021 study . The GBD study included the burden estimates of nontraumatic SAH among all ages in 204 countries and territories between 1990 and EXPOSURES : SAH and 14 modifiable risk factors . MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES : Absolute numbers and age-standardized rates with 95% uncertainty intervals ( UIs ) of SAH incidence , prevalence , mortality , and disability-adjusted life-years ( DALYs ) as well as risk factor-specific population attributable fractions ( PAFs ) . RESULTS : In 2021 , the global age-standardized SAH incidence was 3 ( 95% UI , 3-5 ) , prevalence was 2 ( 95% UI , 1-6 ) , mortality was 2 ( 95% UI , 7-8 ) , and DALY rate was 2 ( 95% UI , 5-6 ) per 100 000 people . The highest burden estimates were found in Latin America , the Caribbean , Oceania , and high-income Asia Pacific . Although the absolute number of SAH cases increased , especially in regions with a low sociodemographic index , all age-standardized burden rates decreased between 1990 and 2021 : the incidence by 8% ( 95% UI , 7%-6% ) , prevalence by 1% ( 95% UI , 8%-7% ) , mortality by 1% ( 95% UI , 7%-3% ) , and DALY rate by 6% ( 95% UI , 8%-9% ) . Of 300 diseases , SAH ranked as the 36th most common cause of death and 59th most common cause of DALY in the world . Of all worldwide SAH-related DALYs , 6% ( 95% UI , 8%-6% ) were associated with the 14 modeled risk factors of which high systolic blood pressure ( population attributable fraction [PAF] = 6% ; 95% UI , 0%-6% ) and smoking ( PAF = 4% ; 95% UI , 4%-5% ) had the highest attribution . CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE : Although the global age-standardized burden rates of SAH more than halved over the last 3 decades , SAH remained one of the most common cardiovascular and neurological causes of death and disabilities in the world , with increasing absolute case numbers . These findings suggest evidence for the potential health benefits of proactive public health planning and resource allocation toward the prevention of SAH .
BACKGROUND : Neurodegenerative diseases pose significant health challenges in the 21st century , with increasing morbidity and mortality , particularly among the elderly population . One of the key factors contributing to the pathogenesis of these diseases is the disrupted crosstalk between mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum . Mitochondria-associated membranes ( MAMs ) , which are regions where the ER interfaces with mitochondria , serve as crucial platforms facilitating communication between these organelles . OBJECTIVES : This review focuses on the structural composition and functions of MAMs and highlights their roles . Additionally , in this review , we summarize the relationship between MAM dysfunction and various neurodegenerative diseases , including Alzheimer ' s disease , Parkinson ' s disease , and others . The involvement of key proteins such as Sig-1R , IP3R , and VAPB in maintaining ER-mitochondrial communication and their dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases is emphasized . CONCLUSION : Through analyzing the effects of MAM on neurodegenerative diseases , we provide the newest insights and potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of these debilitating conditions .
ObjectiveThis retrospective cohort study aimed to develop and validate a nomogram for predicting in-hospital mortality among patients with community-acquired pneumonia admitted to the intensive care unit . MethodsData of patients meeting the inclusion criteria were extracted from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care-IV database , and the patients were randomly allocated into training ( n = 3798 , 70% ) and validation ( n = 1629 , 30% ) cohorts . First-day intensive care unit admission parameters were averaged . Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator regression and multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to identify mortality risk factors in the training cohort , followed by nomogram construction . Model performance was evaluated based on discrimination ( area under the curve ) , calibration ( Hosmer-Lemeshow test and bootstrap resampling ) , and clinical utility ( decision curve analysis ) . Data from emergency intensive care unit were used to perform external validation of the value of the model . ResultsIn total , 5427 patients were included . Age , red cell distribution width , Sequential Organ Failure Assessment , Acute Physiology Score-III , blood urea nitrogen-to-serum creatinine ratio , anion gap , osmolarity , and sepsis were identified as independent risk factors for hospital mortality . The nomogram demonstrated superior discrimination compared with Sequential Organ Failure Assessment and Acute Physiology Score-III in the validation ( area under the curve : 772 vs . 685-724 ) and training ( area under the curve : 787 vs . 708-740 ; p < 05 ) sets . Calibration and decision curve analyses confirmed robust performance ( Hosmer-Lemeshow p = 11 ; net benefit threshold : 20%-80% ) . In both cohorts , calibration and decision curve analyses showed that the nomogram had good calibration degree , discriminative ability , and clinical benefits . Data from emergency intensive care unit showed that the area under the curve of the model was 7864 ( 95% confidence interval , 76-81 ) , area under the curve of Sequential Organ Failure Assessment was 7217 ( 95% confidence interval , 69-75 ) , and area under the curve of Acute Physiology Score-III was 7055 ( 95% confidence interval , 68-73 ) . ConclusionsThis nomogram provides moderate predictive accuracy for hospital mortality in critically ill patients with community-acquired pneumonia and may aid prognosis assessment . FAU - Song , Xuefeng
AIMS : Toll-like receptors ( TLRs ) play critical roles in pain modulation and immune responses . Polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid ( Poly-IC ) , a TLR3-specific ligand , has shown promise in exerting neuroprotective effects , as it mitigates inflammation in several diseases . Considering that sterile neurogenic inflammation is involved in the pathogenesis of migraine , we explored the impact of Poly-IC on episodic migraine treatment and the potential mechanisms involved . METHODS : Episodic migraine was induced in male rats via a single intraperitoneal injection of nitroglycerin . Poly-IC ( with or without a TLR3 inhibitor ) treatment was performed before migraine induction . Pain was assessed according to the mechanical sensitivity threshold , head-directed grooming , and the Rat Grimace Scale . The expression of TLR3 and its downstream molecule TRIF was subsequently examined , after which calcitonin gene-related peptide ( CGRP ) , c-fos , and proinflammatory cytokine expression was assessed . Moreover , TRIF expression in primary cultured neurons was knocked down by shRNA in vitro to further explore the mechanisms by which Poly-IC mediates migraine-like inflammation . RESULTS : Poly-IC treatment significantly upregulated TLR3/TRIF expression , reduced the production of CGRP , c-fos , and inflammatory cytokines , and alleviated allodynia in an animal model of migraine . Moreover , TRIF knockdown blunted the anti-inflammatory effects of Poly-IC treatment in primary cultured neurons . CONCLUSIONS : Poly-IC exerts therapeutic effects against neurogenic inflammation via the TLR3/TRIF signaling pathway in an episodic migraine model .
Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) is the most common non-infectious inflammatory CNS disease , characterized by progressive neurodegeneration and focal demyelinated lesions . Traditionally considered an autoimmune disease , MS is driven by the immune system ' s attack on CNS myelin , resulting in cumulative disability . However , conventional anti-inflammatory treatments often fail to prevent progressive deterioration , particularly in the absence of overt inflammation , highlighting the need for a deeper understanding of its pathogenesis . Recent research has revealed a more complex disease mechanism involving both peripheral immune responses and intrinsic CNS factors , with glial cells playing a central role . Persistent inflammation in MS is associated with mixed active/inactive lesions dominated by microglia and astrocyte dysregulation . These glial populations exhibit maladaptive activation , contributing to failed remyelination and ongoing neurodegeneration . Transcriptomic and epigenomic alterations as well as aging further exacerbate glial dysfunction , creating a self-perpetuating cycle of inflammation and damage . Emerging evidence suggests that the interplay between peripheral immune cells and glial populations and the potential dual-use nature of molecular tools shared by the immune system and CNS disrupts homeostatic signaling , leading to a loss of tissue integrity . This review synthesizes findings on glial cell biology in MS , with a focus on microglia and astrocytes , while addressing their roles in demyelination , synapse loss , and neurodegeneration . The limitations of animal models , particularly EAE , in replicating the complexity of MS are also addressed . Finally , critical questions are outlined to guide future research into glial pathology and to identify novel therapeutic approaches targeting progressive MS .
Epigenetic changes caused by methylphenidate hydrochloride on paternal inheritance have been suggested in fish , yet a subject to be determined in mammals . In rats , we showed increased sperm DNA fragmentation and reduced embryonic viability . In the present report , male Wistar rats ( n = 21 ) were divided into two groups : control and methylphenidate . The control group received 1 mL/kg of distilled water , while the methylphenidate group received 5 mg/kg by gavage from 38 to 68 days of age on a single daily dose . After this period , there was an interval before exposed rats started a mating schedule with untreated/normally cycling females . Morphological quality and key epigenetic marks in the blastocysts were assessed . Immunocytochemistry was performed in fresh blastocysts to quantify the trimethylated histones H3K4 , H3K9 , and H4K Treatment with methylphenidate reduced the mean quality of blastocysts by 57% ( p = 02 ) , as well as increased those classified as " poor " by more than 150% ( p < 001 ) . Epigenetic marks were also altered , with an increase in the intensity of H3K9me3 ( p = 01 ) , a reduction of H4K20me3 ( p = 05 ) and a nonsignificant increase of H3K4me3 ( p = 34 ) . The results suggest that the decline in blastocyst quality is highly associated with subchronic use of this psychostimulant by adolescent males . This is the first report showing the risks posed by methylphenidate to the epigenetic signature of a mammalian blastocyst following paternal exposure .
Photothermal biomodulation is an emerging technique that leverages the deep optical penetration of near-infrared light in biological tissues , enabling a range of diagnostic and therapeutic applications . Given that photothermal agents are used within the body , ensuring long-term safety is essential , necessitating the development of safer , biodegradable agents . In this work , we developed biodegradable photothermal particles based on the FDA-approved polylactic-co-glycolic acid ( PLGA ) polymer and confined water . We hypothesize that confined water acts as a photothermal transducer due to its lower heat capacity compared to surrounding bulk water , while the polymer layer provides thermal insulation , effectively retaining the generated heat within the particles and creating a thermal gradient in their immediate vicinity . Fluorescent thermometry and IR camera results demonstrate the strong photothermal performance of the developed particles , enabling localized heating instead of global heating in surrounding environments . Additionally , we confirm the presence of confined water within the particles through Fourier transform infrared ( FTIR ) and X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) results . Further in vitro validation using lysozyme enzyme activity tests and cell viability experiments with EO771 cancer cells expressing LanYFP fluorescent protein confirmed the biocompatibility and efficacy of the developed particles . These particles successfully induced localized heating in the cellular environment without compromising cell viability , making them highly promising for safe biomedical applications in photothermal therapy and biomodulation . FAU - Kwon , Jinha
OBJECTIVE : Programmed cell death ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) expression is considered a poor prognostic factor in patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer ( MIBC ) . However , the data regarding the change in PD-L1 expression before and after neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( NAC ) are limited . We aimed to investigate the longitudinal association between programmed death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) and Ki-67 expression before and after NAC in muscle-invasive bladder cancer ( MIBC ) . METHODS : We retrospectively analyzed 191 patients with MIBC who underwent platinum-based NAC followed by radical cystectomy ( RC ) between June 2010 and March We excluded ypT0-1 cases because of the difficulty of evaluating PD-L1 and Ki-67 by immunostaining . Finally , we selected 104 patients with matched specimens from transurethral resection of bladder tumor ( TURBT ) and residual invasive disease in RC . We examined the relationship between PD-L1 expression and Ki-67 labeling index in TURBT and RC specimens . Additionally , we investigated the differential expression of 39 subtype-related genes before and after NAC . RESULTS : Among 104 patients who underwent NAC , the number of PD-L1-positive patients significantly increased from 16 ( 4% ) in the TURBT specimens to 30 ( 8% ) in the RC specimens . The median Ki-67 labeling index significantly decreased from 6% in the TURBT specimens to 9% in the RC specimens . The correlation between treatment effects and changes in gene expression was challenging to identify . CONCLUSIONS : A significant effect of NAC on PD-L1 expression and Ki-67 labeling index was observed in patients with MIBC . However , the impact of changes in gene expression on prognosis needs further study .
Uncontrolled hemorrhage and infection are leading causes of post-traumatic deaths in both clinical and battlefield settings . Although several wound dressings have been developed , rapid and effective hemostasis and wound healing promotion in irregular and non-compressible wounds remain serious challenges . In this study , a multifunctional hydrogel ( HPCS-C/ODEX/CC hydrogel ) was developed using two natural polysaccharide derivatives , catechol-modified hydroxypropyl chitosan ( HPCS-C ) and oxidized dextran ( ODEX ) , as well as Crinis Carbonisatus ( CC ) nanoparticles for rapid hemostasis and wound healing . The hydrogels exhibited favorable injectability and self-healing properties due to dynamic Schiff bonds between HPCS-C and ODEX . The introduction of catechol molecules in HPCS-C enhanced tissue adhesion , while the incorporation of CC nanoparticles also promoted the aggregation of blood cells to form a thrombus , enabling the hydrogel to rapidly establish a robust hemostatic barrier in various complex wounds . As a result , the HPCS-C/ODEX/CC hydrogel reduced bleeding in liver and tail hemorrhage models by 11-34% and 12-37% , respectively . The hydrogels also exhibited excellent biocompatibility and antibacterial , antioxidant , and wound healing promoting properties . Overall , HPCS-C/ODEX/CC hydrogels represent a promising dressing for rapidly and effectively stopping bleeding and promoting wound healing , offering a viable strategy for the treatment of uncontrollable bleeding and improving the survival of trauma patients . FAU - Tian , Rui
Antigen peptide-based immunotherapy holds significant promise for tumor treatment by eliciting targeted immune responses against tumor cells . However , current methods often face limitations in achieving effective antigen delivery and immune activation . Addressing these challenges through novel delivery systems and immunomodulatory strategies is crucial for improving the clinical efficacy of this therapy . Herein , a supramolecular system based on the self-assembly of the human papillomavirus ( HPV ) E7 antigen peptide is established by utilizing a Schiff base-mediated self-assembly approach . The E7 antigen peptide nanoparticles ( E7 NPs ) are further functionalized by loading chlorin e6 ( Ce6 ) and decorating with bovine serum albumin ( BSA ) , generating BSA/E7/Ce6 NPs . The BSA/E7/Ce6 NPs exhibited remarkable photodynamic effects in the inhibition of tumor cells and significantly improved tumor accumulation . Especially , the BSA/E7/Ce6 NPs improved antitumor immune responses of the E7 antigen by effectively activating cytotoxic T lymphocytes . The combination therapy integrating BSA/E7/Ce6 NPs with photodynamic therapy demonstrated a 8-fold increase in CD3 ( + ) CD8 ( + ) T cells compared to monotherapy groups , leading to significantly enhanced antitumor effects . Our findings demonstrate that supramolecular antigen peptide nanomaterials can be established as drug delivery systems while retaining their original antigenicity , providing a versatile strategy for realizing enhanced antitumor immunotherapy . FAU - Zhang , Ya
Ferroptosis , a distinct form of regulated cell death ( RCD ) , has emerged as a promising approach for cancer treatment owing to its potential to inhibit tumor malignancy . Research indicates that non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) regulate ferroptosis susceptibility in cancer cells through epigenetic modifications . ncRNAs play essential roles in cancer initiation , metastasis , and drug resistance . Findings indicate that small-molecule compounds ( SMCs ) target ncRNAs to regulate ferroptosis , providing new opportunities for precision cancer therapy . Therefore , this review aims to elucidate current molecular mechanisms underlying ncRNA-mediated ferroptosis regulation in cancer and investigate the potential of SMCs as therapeutic agents to modulate this process , offering a new strategy for precision in cancer treatment . This review also summarizes the innovative strategy of targeting ncRNAs with SMCs , a therapeutic approach for regulating ferroptosis and transforming the landscape of cancer treatment . Overall , it highlights a novel strategy for cancer therapy by pharmacologically targeting the ncRNA-ferroptosis axis with SMCs . Antioxid . Redox Signal . 00 , 000- FAU - Zhang , Junjing
This study investigates the protective role of sulfated oligoguluronic acid ( SOGA ) , synthesized from polyguluronic acid ( PG ) -derived oligoguluronic acid ( OGA ) , against intestinal inflammation and barrier dysfunction . In vitro , SOGA significantly reduced LPS-induced proinflammatory cytokine secretion in THP-1 cells , whereas PG and OGA were ineffective . Mechanistic investigations revealed that SOGA effectively inhibited the activation of LPS-induced NF-kappaB , JNK MAPK , and NLRP3 inflammasome signaling pathways . In Caco-2 monolayers , SOGA effectively restored mitochondrial function , preserved tight junction integrity , and reduced paracellular permeability . In comparison , this effect was absent for PG and OGA . Additionally , SOGA significantly suppressed the secretion of proinflammatory cytokines in a coculture model of Caco-2/THP-1 cells . In vivo , SOGA ameliorated ulcerative colitis symptoms in mice by reducing inflammation , enhancing tight junction protein expression , and improving mitochondrial function . These findings underscore the potential of SOGA in inflammatory bowel disease treatment by targeting key aspects of inflammation and intestinal barrier dysfunction . FAU - Bi , Decheng
BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE1-ASSOCIATED RECEPTOR KINASE 1 ( BAK1 ) -INTERACTING RECEPTOR-LIKE KINASE ( BIR ) proteins are negative regulators of cell death and defense against microbes in Arabidopsis thaliana . Here , we demonstrate that the members of the BIR family function as negative regulators of antiviral resistance in Arabidopsis . We show that during tobacco rattle virus ( TRV ) infection , BIR1 and BIR3 gene expression is antagonistically regulated by salicylic acid and jasmonic acid signaling pathways . BIR1 and BIR3 negatively regulate TRV resistance via distinct mechanisms . Our data indicate that BIR1 modulates antiviral defense through mechanisms that include pattern-triggered immune ( PTI ) gene expression , plasmodesmata callose deposition alongside yet unidentified defense pathways independent of the receptor-like kinases BAK1 and SUPPRESSOR OF BIR1-1 1 ( SOBIR1 ) , or the lipase-like PHYTOALEXIN DEFICIENT 4 ( PAD4 ) . BIR3 negatively regulates a pathway that involves BAK1 and ENHANCED DISEASE SUSCEPTIBILITY 1 ( EDS1 ) /PAD4 , suggesting that BIR3 disrupts an immune response similar to effector-triggered immunity ( ETI ) driven by nucleotide-binding leucine-rich intracellular receptors . This response helps control virus proliferation without causing a hypersensitive reaction . Our findings also reveal that BIR2 represses antiviral defense against TRV , highlighting the conserved function of BIR proteins as pivotal modulators in plant-virus interactions . We propose that the induction of BIR proteins during viral infection helps maintain a balance between defense activation and suppression to prevent viral overaccumulation and plant damage .
Cleistogenes squarrosa is a pioneer tumble plant widely distributed across the Eurasian steppes . It achieves long-distance wind dispersal through stem reshaping . However , the underlying ecological adaptation mechanisms of this dispersal strategy remain unexplored . Combining with field and laboratory observations , we revealed that four coordinated processes - plant phenology , cell wall development , water supplies , and aerodynamic adaptations - interactively facilitate the anemochory of this endemic species in the Eurasian steppes . Specifically , the development of the cell wall with heterogeneous microfibril arrangement plays a critical role in hygroscopic stem reshaping , which occurs in synchrony with seed maturation . Remarkably , the subsequently dry and windy season perfectly follows these two synchronized processes , providing ideal dehydration conditions for stem reshaping and enhancing aerodynamic efficiency for long-distance dispersal . This model for long-distance dispersal innovatively showcases how microscopic cell wall structure propels macroscopic dispersal capabilities and environmental adaptation , ultimately enhancing ecosystem resilience to environmental changes . Collectively , these results indicate the potential for promoting the introduction and cultivation of C . squarrosa to support the restoration of degraded and arid ecosystems . Moreover , this newly identified mechanism provides a valuable direction for future research aimed at developing herbaceous plant varieties with improved dispersal capabilities through molecular breeding techniques .
Aims : In Friedreich ataxia ( FRDA ) , early motor discoordination stems from dysfunctional sensory neurons in the spinal cord driven by epigenetic dysregulation , frataxin ( FXN ) deficiency , oxidative stress , and inflammation . Omaveloxolone , a nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2 ( NRF2 ) inducer , is the only treatment available . In various chronic disease models , sulforaphane ( SF ) can target NRF2 and the above processes . This study compared the effects of SF with omaveloxolone and dimethyl fumarate ( DMF ) in sensory neurons generated from FRDA patient-induced pluripotent stem cells and their isogenic control . Results : The successful generation of the FRDA and isogenic control sensory neurons was confirmed by the positive expression of beta-III TUBULIN , BRN3A , ISLET1 , PERIPHERIN , and tropomyosin receptor kinase C . In comparison with the isogenic control , FRDA sensory neurons displayed an aberrant gene expression profile alike to that reported in patients . None of the drugs affected the viability of the isogenic control sensory neurons . SF treatment improved the viability of FRDA sensory neurons by up to 61% versus the untreated control . DMF treatment showed a modest 35% increase , while omaveloxolone lacked an effect . SF-treated FRDA sensory neurons demonstrated increased reduced glutathione/oxidized glutathione ratio and expression of FXN and redox markers , and a reduced expression of selected epigenetic enzymes and inflammatory cytokines , at the respective gene and protein levels . DMF and omaveloxolone treatments only modulated some of these biomarkers . Innovation : We revealed the therapeutic potential of SF and how it performs in comparison with omaveloxolone and DMF , in a physiologically and genetically relevant in vitro FRDA model . Conclusion : SF offers a multipronged approach to alleviating the different cellular events underlying FRDA . Antioxid . Redox Signal . 00 , 000- [Figure : see text] . FAU - Yang , Wenyao
Angiosarcoma is a rare and aggressive subtype of soft-tissue sarcoma that typically originates from endothelial cells , often presenting in the head and neck ( H&N ) region . This case report aims to investigate a unique instance of sinonasal angiosarcoma in a patient with Cornelia de Lange syndrome ( CdLS ) , a genetic disorder previously not associated with angiosarcoma , and to explore potential links between chronic rhinosinusitis ( CRS ) and sinonasal angiosarcoma . A 22-year-old female patient with CdLS and a history of chronic sinusitis presented with epistaxis , facial pain , and a maxillary sinus mass . Imaging and biopsy suggested angiosarcoma , and surgical resection was performed . Our multidisciplinary tumor board recommended adjuvant chemotherapy . However , following consultation with an outside community hospital , a decision to proceed with observation was made . Persistent disease was identified on post-treatment imaging , leading to concurrent radiotherapy and weekly Taxol . There was no active disease upon follow-up . To the best of our knowledge , this case represents the first report of angiosarcoma in a patient with CdLS . Although no direct link between CdLS and angiosarcoma has been established , CRS may create a microenvironment conducive to tumor development . Further research is necessary to better understand the relationship between CRS , genetic syndromes , and sinonasal angiosarcoma . Given the rarity and poor prognosis of sinonasal angiosarcoma , a multidisciplinary approach at academic centers is essential for optimal treatment .
OBJECTIVE : High-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma ( HGNEC ) with dominant POU2F3 expression exhibits non-neuroendocrine features . However , clinical data regarding this subset of pulmonary HGNECs are scarce , and its clinical characteristics remain unclear . METHODS : Clinicopathological data from 109 patients who underwent surgery for HGNEC were collected and analyzed based on transcription factor expression . Patients were divided into a POU2F3-dominant group ( HGNEC-P ) and a non-dominant group ( HGNEC-non-P ) according to immunohistochemical analysis . The clinicopathological characteristics of the two groups were compared , and univariate and multivariate analyses were conducted to identify prognostic factors . RESULTS : The HGNEC-P group comprised 26 patients , while the HGNEC-non-P group comprised 83 patients . The HGNEC-P group showed significantly lower expression of carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) ( p < 001 ) and a lower rate of vascular invasion ( p = 021 ) compared to the HGNEC-non-P group . In addition , the HGNEC-P group exhibited a unique tumor marker profile , with lower serum CEA and higher serum cytokeratin antigen ( CYFRA ) levels ( p < 001 and p = 046 , respectively ) . Complete resection was achieved in all HGNEC-P cases , whereas only 9% of HGNEC-non-P cases achieved complete resection . Multivariate analysis identified POU2F3 expression as an independent prognostic factor for recurrence-free survival ( RFS ) and disease-specific survival ( DSS ) ( p = 037 and p = 038 , respectively ) . In patients with pathological Stage I disease , the HGNEC-P group showed significantly better RFS ( p = 010 ) . CONCLUSIONS : POU2F3-dominant HGNEC is associated with distinct clinicopathological features and favorable prognosis , particularly in early-stage disease . These findings may support the identification of this subset and inform the development of more effective treatment strategies .
Background It is known that the diagnosis of non-hematological malignancy from bone marrow is uncommon . Also , aspiration from the bone marrow is considered one method that aids in the diagnosis of bone metastases . The study examined bone marrow results and a thorough examination of bone marrow in non-hematological cancers that have metastasized to the bone marrow . Materials and methods This was a retrospective study that was conducted at the Department of Hematology , Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences ( IGIMS ) , Patna , Bihar , India . A total of 200 cases of bone marrow aspiration and 150 cases of bone marrow biopsies with relevant clinical features , hematological , and radiological findings have been enrolled in the study . Ethical clearance has been granted by the Institutional Ethics Committee ( IEC ) of IGIMS . Results It was observed that 62 ( 31% ) patients with non-hematological malignancies suffered from bone marrow metastases . The population with bone marrow metastases varies , as 50 ( 6% ) of the patient population comprised adults , while the pediatric population was 12 ( 4% ) . Anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , pancytopenia , and nucleated immature blood cells were some common findings of peripheral blood smears associated with non-hematological malignancies . Conclusion It concluded the necessity of diagnosing bone marrow metastases in patients with non-hematological malignancies . The study could not find any assured predictive parameter for bone marrow metastases . Conditions like anemia , thrombocytopenia , leukopenia , and others have been revealed by examining peripheral blood smears .
Gastric metastases from solid tumors are rare and often clinically silent . When present , they typically originate from primaries such as the lung , breast , or skin . Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) , particularly the clear cell subtype , has a known metastatic potential , most commonly to the lungs , bones , and liver . Gastric involvement is extremely uncommon . We report a case of an 83-year-old man with a remote history of clear cell RCC treated with nephrectomy three decades earlier , who presented with melena , epigastric discomfort , and vomiting . Endoscopic evaluation revealed a conglomerate of friable , vegetative lesions in the stomach with signs of recent bleeding . Biopsies confirmed metastasis of clear cell RCC . Computed tomography ( CT ) imaging demonstrated multiple nodular intraluminal gastric lesions . Given the patient ' s advanced age , comorbidities , and known distant metastases , surgical treatment was deemed inappropriate . Palliative hemostatic radiotherapy was initiated for symptom control . This case highlights the potential for late gastric metastasis from clear cell RCC and emphasizes the importance of considering metastatic disease in the differential diagnosis of gastrointestinal bleeding , even decades after the initial oncologic treatment . Prompt endoscopic evaluation and histological confirmation are essential for diagnosis , while treatment decisions must be individualized based on disease burden and patient condition .
Background Stroke remains a leading cause of disability and mortality worldwide , with a rising incidence in India . Early identification of patients at risk for severe stroke and poor outcomes is crucial for timely intervention . Despite advancements , current diagnostic tools lack sufficient sensitivity and specificity for early prognostic stratification . Emerging evidence highlights cell-free DNA ( cfDNA ) , a marker of cellular injury , and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein ( hsCRP ) , an inflammatory marker , as promising candidates . These biomarkers were selected over others due to their robust association with tissue damage and inflammation , two pivotal mechanisms in stroke pathophysiology . This study aimed to assess the prognostic value of cfDNA and hsCRP in acute ischemic stroke patients and their association with stroke severity and outcomes . Methods This prospective observational study included 54 acute ischemic stroke patients admitted within 12 hours of symptom onset . Clinical assessments were performed using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale ( NIHSS ) at admission and the modified Rankin Scale ( mRS ) at three months to evaluate stroke severity and outcomes . Blood samples were collected to measure cfDNA and hsCRP levels . Correlation analyses were conducted to evaluate the association between biomarkers and stroke severity ( NIHSS ) and outcomes ( mRS ) . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis determined optimal biomarker thresholds and logistic regression analysis identified independent predictors of poor neurological outcomes ( mRS >/= 3 ) . Results The median age of the cohort was 61 years , with a mean of 6 +/- 1 years , and 5% were male . cfDNA showed significant correlations with NIHSS ( rho = 222 , p = 040 ) and mRS ( rho = 396 , p = 002 ) , while hsCRP correlated with NIHSS ( rho = 354 , p = 001 ) and mRS ( rho = 328 , p = 010 ) . ROC analysis identified cfDNA ( >10 , 000 kilogenome equivalents/L ) and hsCRP ( >6 mg/L ) as predictive thresholds for severe stroke and poor outcomes , with area under the curve ( AUC ) values of 79 and 71 , respectively . Logistic regression indicated age > 60 years ( OR 45 , p = 041 ) , cfDNA > 10 , 000 ( OR 12 , p = 027 ) , hsCRP > 6 mg/L ( OR 75 , p = 039 ) , and higher NIHSS ( OR 23 , p = 042 ) as significant predictors of poor neurological outcomes . These thresholds can guide early interventions , and the modest correlation coefficients reflect the multifactorial nature of stroke . This study uniquely proposes predictive thresholds for cfDNA and hsCRP in an Indian cohort , adding to the existing evidence on their clinical utility . Conclusion The study demonstrates that elevated cfDNA and hsCRP levels are significantly associated with stroke severity and poor outcomes in acute ischemic stroke patients . These biomarkers , alongside age and NIHSS score at admission , may serve as valuable tools in predicting prognosis and guiding early therapeutic interventions in stroke management . Future research should focus on evaluating the cost-effectiveness , feasibility , and integration of these biomarkers into routine clinical practice to optimize stroke care .
Blinatumomab , a bispecific T-cell engager , has significantly advanced the treatment of relapsed and refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( B-ALL ) , with well-established toxicities such as cytokine release syndrome and neurotoxicity . However , pancreatitis remains an exceptionally rare and underrecognized adverse effect , with limited reports outside of clinical trials . This case report presents one of the first documented instances of acute pancreatitis in a patient receiving blinatumomab in a real-world setting , diagnosed by elevated serum lipase and confirmatory CT imaging . The patient ' s presentation and resolution with supportive care underscore the importance of promptly recognizing and managing this potential complication . Further investigation is warranted to elucidate the pathophysiological mechanisms of this association and to guide clinical decisions regarding blinatumomab safety and rechallenge protocols in affected patients .
Thoracic SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumor ( SMARCA4-UT ) is an aggressive tumor with a dismal prognosis , most commonly involving the mediastinum and lungs . The diagnosis of SMARCA4-UT is still challenging , both clinically and pathologically , due to its non-specific clinical findings , a broad list of differential diagnoses , and rarity of cases reported in the literature , especially in terms of cytopathology . Most patients present at an advanced stage of disease at the time of diagnosis , and fine needle aspiration ( FNA ) cytology specimens and/or core biopsies are often the only diagnostic material available . SMARCA4-UT tumors are strongly associated with a smoking history ; however , approximately 10% of the patients are never smokers . We report a case of a 78-year-old male with a remote minimal smoking history who presented with a large mediastinal mass and hilar lymphadenopathy . FNA of the mass demonstrated a moderately cellular aspirate with two populations of loosely cohesive malignant cells in a background of necro-inflammatory debris and bare nuclei . The majority of malignant cells showed enlarged nuclei with prominent nucleoli and scant cytoplasm , with a few malignant cells showing rhabdoid features . Immunohistochemical staining of the cell block showed the malignant cells were patchy positive for INSM-1 and PAX-8 ; however , negative for keratin markers , TTF-1 , Napsin A , and p SMARCA4-UT was diagnosed with the loss of SMARCA4 ( BRG1 ) expression in the tumor cells .
OBJECTIVES : To evaluate the effect of high-dose isoniazid in patients with isoniazid-resistant TB by its bactericidal activity after 1 or more weeks of treatment . SUBJECTS AND METHODS : Using the rapid direct method of phenotypic drug susceptibility testing , we screened persons with positive sputum microscopy results and genotypic drug resistance for isoniazid resistance . Those with no growth at a critical concentration of 0 mg/L were invited to participate in a trial of high-dose isoniazid monotherapy lasting 6 days . After 3 days of no treatment , patients received isoniazid 15 mg/kg and were followed with serial quantitative sputum cultures from Days 0 to RESULTS : We enrolled 15 patients after a median of 2 weeks standard first-line treatment . Their median bacillary count on Day 0 was 9 log cfu/mL on solid agar , and the time to detection ( TTD ) was 200 h in liquid medium . Neither metric showed meaningful change in bacillary burden over 6 days , declining by a non-significant 08 log cfu/mL/d on solid media and slowing TTD by 23 h . These effects did not differ by degree of isoniazid resistance or specific Inhibin Subunit Alpha ( inhA ) gene mutations . CONCLUSIONS : The utility of high-dose isoniazid against low-level isoniazid resistance beyond the first 2 weeks of chemotherapy should be reconsidered .
Oat powdery mildew , caused by Blumeria graminis f . sp . avenae ( Bga ) , poses a serious threat to oat production , yet the underlying resistance mechanisms remain largely unclear . In this study , we investigated early-stage defense responses in resistant ( BY642 ) and susceptible ( BY119 ) oat varieties following Bga inoculation using cytological observations , physiological and hormonal measurements , and transcriptomic analysis . Microscopy revealed that Bga penetrates oat tissues directly through epidermal cells rather than stomata . BY642 exhibited a rapid and robust defense characterized by reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) accumulation and hypersensitive response , tightly regulated by an efficient antioxidant system to prevent cellular damage . Hormone profiling indicated a salicylic acid ( SA ) -dominated signaling pathway in BY642 , accompanied by suppression of jasmonic acid ( JA ) responses . Transcriptome profiling showed early activation of photosynthesis-related pathways , metabolic reprogramming , and immune-related networks , including MAPK cascades and WRKY transcription factors . Hub genes such as AsGSTU6 and AsWRKY50 were identified as key contributors to resistance . These findings suggest that BY642 employs a coordinated defense strategy integrating ROS dynamics , SA signaling , and transcriptional regulation , providing novel insights into the molecular basis of powdery mildew resistance and potential targets for oat breeding .
The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in a significant impact on public health , particularly for individuals with underlying health conditions such as obesity and diabetes . While vaccination efforts have played a crucial role in reducing hospitalizations , it remains unclear whether the effectiveness of these vaccines varies among different population groups . In this study , we investigated the immune responses generated by various SARS-CoV-2 vaccine platforms in mouse models with obesity and diabetes , focusing on both cell-mediated and humoral immune responses . Our findings revealed diminished immune responses in diabetic and obese mice compared to healthy counterparts . After vaccination with adjuvanted subunit or mRNA lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) vaccines , both humoral and cell-mediated responses were significantly reduced in diabetic mice . Obese mice also exhibited decreased immunogenicity , albeit to a lesser extent . However , it should be noted that mRNA vaccines demonstrated strong neutralizing responses across all metabolic states , while adjuvanted subunit vaccines elicited higher antibody avidity in mice with type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) and obesity compared to healthy mice . These results suggest that the impaired humoral and cell-mediated responses observed in altered metabolic states may be linked to chronic inflammation associated with obesity and suboptimal glycemic control in diabetes . Understanding the impact of these metabolic disturbances on vaccine immunogenicity is crucial for developing optimized vaccines that can effectively enhance immune responses and provide long-lasting protection against SARS-CoV-2 , even in individuals with obesity and diabetes . By contributing these findings , we support efforts to improve vaccine efficacy in populations affected by metabolic disorders , advancing effective immunization against SARS-CoV- FAU - Smith , Olivia A
Scaffolds , in addition to being biocompatible , should possess structural and mechanical properties similar to the natural tissues they intend to replace . Many tissue engineering applications require porous 3D scaffolds characterized by unique microfibrous organization and mechanical anisotropy . Manufacturing process principles and process parameter-biomaterial interactions ultimately govern the properties that can be achieved in the scaffold . In this study , we investigate a recently developed nonwoven scaffold fabrication process , 3D melt blowing ( 3DMB ) , for processing Elastollan ( ( R ) ) , a thermoplastic polyurethane with basic mechanical properties suitable for musculoskeletal tissue engineering . The range of feasible processing parameters was screened and the effects of two sets of critical process parameters ( fiber deposition offset and surface velocity of the collector ) that produced contrasting scaffold morphologies were assessed . Results showed that scaffolds of Group B that were fabricated at the higher fiber deposition offset ( 90% ) and higher surface velocity of the collector ( 6x10 mm/min ) possessed significantly smaller fiber diameter and higher porosity and degree of fiber alignment along the principal direction of collector rotation during 3DMB ( all p<05 ) compared to Group A scaffolds ( fabricated at 50% offset and 1x10 mm/min surface velocity ) . Although both groups possessed similar tensile stiffness , the elongation at failure was significantly different ( p<0001 ) . The higher elongation at failure of Group B correlated with the higher degree of fiber alignment in these scaffolds . In contrast , the more isotropic fibrous organization of Group A contributed to their higher compressive stiffness ( p=004 ) . The introduction of NaOH treatment to improve hydrophilicity of the scaffolds resulted in a significant reduction of tensile stiffness of Group A ( p<05 ) but not Group B . This treatment did not significantly affect the elongation at failure or compressive stiffness of both groups . With NaOH-treatment , both groups demonstrated good biocompatibility when seeded with fibroblast cells over 14 days . This study confirms the ability to fabricate via 3DMB , biocompatible , micro-fibrous , Elastollan scaffolds relevant for musculoskeletal tissue engineering . FAU - Pawar , Advay
PURPOSE : Glioma remains a lethal malignancy with limited prognostic biomarkers . This study evaluates the prognostic significance and functional mechanisms of tetraspanin CD9 in glioma to establish its clinical relevance and identify therapeutic strategies . METHODS : Multi-omics analyses were performed using 1 , 033 glioma samples from TCGA and CGGA cohorts . A CD9-integrated nomogram was developed via Cox regression . Two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) assessed the causal link between CD9 expression and glioma risk using IVW , MR-Egger , and WM methods . KEGG enrichment analysis identified biological pathways . Single-cell RNA sequencing from 20 glioblastoma cases was analyzed using CellChat and Monocle3 to explore CD9-mediated cell communication and lineage transitions . Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) networks were constructed via STRING and GeneMANIA , and drug predictions were performed using DsigDB . RESULTS : CD9 overexpression was an independent predictor of poor survival ( HR = 28 , 95% CI 03-58 ) . The CD9-based nomogram showed high prognostic accuracy ( CGGA : C-index = 805 +/- 01 , TCGA : C-index = 859 +/- 02 ) . MR confirmed a causal association between CD9 and glioma risk ( IVW OR = 33 , p < 05 ) with no horizontal pleiotropy . CD9 regulated glioma progression via calcium signaling and synaptic pathways , interacting with ITGB1 and CD Single-cell analysis revealed CD9-driven NPC-to-OPC transdifferentiation , linked to tumor proliferation . Emetine was identified as a potential CD9-targeting drug . CONCLUSION : CD9 is a prognostic biomarker in glioma , with causal evidence linking its overexpression to tumor development . Its integration into risk models enhances prognostic precision , while drug screening highlights emetine as a potential therapy .
BACKGROUND : Pollen allergy may influence irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) symptoms ; however , available data are scant . AIMS : This study aims to assess symptom variability in atopic IBS patients . METHODS : We retrospectively analysed consecutive adult IBS patients evaluated between 2021 and Patients from the overall IBS cohort and the IBS-diarrhoea ( IBS-D ) subgroup were classified according to their sensitisation into grass-positive , house dust mite ( HDM ) -positive , or unsensitised . Symptom burden was assessed using the gastrointestinal symptom rating scale ( GSRS ) and a visual analogue scale for abdominal pain/distension , both outside the season period ( T0 ) and during the pollination season ( T1 ) . RESULTS : A total of 61 IBS patients were recruited ( median age 34 years , IQR 25-50 , F : M ratio 6 : 1 ) , including 38 patients ( 8% ) with IBS-D ( median age 30 years , IQR 28-47 , F : M ratio 8 : 1 ) . Atopy was common in the IBS-D subgroup , particularly with respiratory manifestations . The mean GSRS significantly ( p < 01 ) increased at T1 ( variance of 4 points ) only in grass-sensitised patients as opposed to those sensitised to HDM or unsensitised ones ; this effect was present only in the IBS-D subgroup , while no significant variation was observed in the overall cohort . CONCLUSIONS : Pollination season influences symptoms in IBS-D patients sensitised to seasonal allergens .
BACKGROUND : Septic cardiomyopathy ( SCM ) is a prevalent complication of sepsis and a primary contributor to mortality in patients with sepsis . Although fatty acid metabolism ( FAM ) is known to regulate cardiac function , its specific role in the pathogenesis of SCM remains unclear . METHODS : The SCM datasets were obtained from the NCBI GEO database . Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were subjected to GO and KEGG pathway analyses . The fatty acid metabolism-related genes were obtained from the MSigDB database . CytoHubba and machine learning algorithms identified hub FAM-DEGs . Associated transcriptional factors and miRNAs of hub FAM-DEGs were predicted using Cytoscape software and miRWalk 0 database . The immune infiltration pattern in SCM was analyzed using the ImmuCellAI tool . The relationship between hub FAM-DEGs and immune infiltration abundance was investigated using Spearman method . Hub FAM-DEGs expression levels were validated in clinical samples and mouse models . RESULTS : Five hub FAM-DEGs associated with SCM were identified , including Hsd17b7 , Dhcr24 , Cyp1a1 , Ephx1 and Hmgcs Immune analysis revealed significantly increased infiltrations of granulocytes , monocytes , M1 macrophage and neutrophils in the SCM group . Spearman analysis demonstrated that the hub FAM-DEGs were positively associated with the infiltration of pro-inflammatory immune cells . In Vivo , Down-regulations of Dhcr24 mRNA and protein levels in cardiac tissues were observed in the SCM mouse group . Clinically , the plasma concentration of DHCR24 was significantly decreased in patients with SCM . CONCLUSION : This study revealed fatty acid metabolism played a crucial role in SCM and identified DHCR24 may act as a potential diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic target in SCM .
PURPOSE : To develop and validate a predictor for early treatment response in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) patients accompanied by portal vein tumor thrombus ( PVTT ) undergoing transarterial chemoembolization ( TACE ) , lenvatinib and a programmed cell death protein 1 ( PD-1 ) inhibitor ( TLP ) therapy . PATIENTS AND METHODS : In this retrospective study , patients with HCC and PVTT from two institutions receiving triple TLP therapy were enrolled . Radiomics features derived from pretreatment contrast-enhanced MRI were curated using intraclass correlation coefficient ( ICC ) , Student ' s t-test , least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) , and recursive feature elimination ( RFE ) to ensure robust selection . Various machine learning ( ML ) algorithms were then used to construct the models . The meaningful clinical indicators were obtained via logistic regression analysis and ultimately integrated with radiomics features to develop a combined model . In addition , we used Shapley Additive exPlanation ( SHAP ) to clarify the model ' s operational dynamics . RESULTS : Our study ultimately included 115 patients ( 7 : 3 randomization , 80 and 35 in the training and test cohorts , respectively ) in total . No patients achieved complete remission , 47 achieved partial remission , 29 achieved stable disease , and 39 experienced disease progression . Among objective response rates ( ORRs ) and disease control rates ( DCRs ) , 9% and 1% were reported . One of the four ML classifiers with optimal performance , namely random forest , was adopted as the radiomics model after testing . Regarding the performance assessment , the radiomics model ' s area under the curve ( AUC ) values reached 92 ( 95% CI : 86-97 ) and 79 ( 95% CI : 61-95 ) , inferior to the combined model ' s AUCs of 95 ( 95% CI : 68-98 ) and 84 ( 95% CI : 91-99 ) . Moreover , the SHAP plots illustrate the importance of global variables and the prediction process for individual samples . CONCLUSION : The model based on machine learning and radiomics showed favorable performance , and the operating mode was visualized through SHAP .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Tuberculosis ( TB ) , a leading cause of death from infectious diseases , faced considerable challenges during the coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) pandemic . This review examines the impact of pandemic-related disruptions , including the diversion of healthcare resources , reduced access to TB diagnostics and treatment , and declining BCG vaccination rates , on TB trends . The aim is to forecast the post-COVID-19 TB burden , identify risk factors that exacerbate transmission , and propose strategies to prevent a global resurgence . METHODS : This narrative review incorporates epidemiological data , modeling research , and reports from the World Health Organization and national health systems . It examines TB trends before and after COVID-19 , the outcomes of coinfection , and the pandemic ' s impact on immunology , socioeconomic factors , and health systems . The review also compares trends in India and South Africa-two countries facing significant challenges-to those observed during the COVID-19 pandemic . RESULTS : COVID-19 disruptions in healthcare led to an 18% decrease in TB notifications in 2020 , resulting in delayed diagnoses , increased household transmission , and higher mortality . Immune dysregulation , including T-cell depletion and cytokine storms , contributed to a 3% mortality rate in COVID-19-TB coinfections . Models predict a 5%-15% rise in TB incidence and an additional 4 million deaths by Individuals with HIV , diabetes , and malnutrition were particularly vulnerable . Factors such as overcrowding , air pollution , and reduced Bacillus Calmette-Guerin ( BCG ) coverage in endemic regions have further heightened susceptibility to TB . CONCLUSION : COVID-19 has undone years of progress in TB control , highlighting the need for a unified health strategy . Early diagnosis , treatment of latent TB , and BCG catch-up initiatives are crucial . Strengthening health systems , addressing socioeconomic factors such as poverty and hunger , and utilizing pandemic advancements like telemedicine and vaccine research will be key to preventing a resurgence of TB . Continued financial support and international cooperation are essential to eliminating TB by
[This corrects the article DOI : 2147/DMSO . S] .
INTRODUCTION : The international guidelines outlining the mandatory developmental toxicology studies of new molecules on pre-implantation , post-implantation and organogenesis phases , require a minimum of 60 pregnant female rats for each molecule to be tested . To date , available in vitro methods still have many limitations , resulting in poor translational power . METHODS : In the present study , an innovative in vitro platform is proposed , based on rat embryonic stem cells ( RESCs ) , which is easy to use and suitable for wide-scale screening , mimicking two different developmental stages : i ) pre-implant model ( undifferentiated pluripotent cells ) , ii ) post-implant model ( neuroectodermal lineage differentiation ) . RESULTS : The in vitro platform was validated by testing the toxicity on the pre-implant model of RA itself , as a known teratogen , a member of the environmental pollutant family per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFAS ) , the perfluorooctanic acid ( PFOA ) , and the endocrine disruptor chemical 2 , 2 ' , 6 , 6 ' -tetrabromobisphenol A ( TBBPA ) as test compound , targeting the thyroid hormone ( TH ) signal . The post-implant model showed inactivation of the pluripotent markers and activation of the neuroectodermal markers . The preimplant model resulted high responsive and sensitive to the embryotoxic effect of the tested compounds . The TBBPA was selected to test the potential effects of on viability and neuroectodermal differentiation , assessed through colorimetric and cell-based high-content screening methods establishing sub-toxic ( 20 muM ) and toxic ( 40 muM ) doses . A high-throughput gene expression array-based analysis showed a prompt response of the in vitro testing platform to TBBPA treatment . A rescue experiment exploiting a pan-thyroid receptor ( pan-TR ) inhibitor ( 1-850 ) showed that the effects of TBBPA on RESCs was blocked , demonstrating its activity through TRs . DISCUSSION : The RESCs-based platform allowed reproducible , robust and highly predictable results , thanks to the coupling of RESCs with high-throughput technologies . These results support the possible use of RESCs-based models as a screening platform for developmental toxicity testing to reduce the number of animals currently used for this aim .
BACKGROUND : Heart failure ( HF ) is the end stage of various cardiovascular diseases . Identifying new biomarkers is essential for early diagnosis , prognosis , and treatment . This study applied bioinformatics to identify potential HF biomarkers and explore the role of the immune microenvironment . METHODS : Gene expression data were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database . Differential expression analysis and Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis ( WGCNA ) were used to identify key genes . Gene Ontology ( GO ) , Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) , and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis were performed . Feature genes were further determined using two machine learning algorithms , Random Forest ( RF ) and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator ( LASSO ) , with diagnostic accuracy assessed via Receiver Operating Characteristic ( ROC ) curves and nomograms to screen hub genes , and external datasets further were used for validation . Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) was used to validate the expression levels of hub genes in clinical samples . Single Sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis and CIBERSORT algorithm were applied to evaluate immune cell infiltration in HF and its relationship with hub genes . RESULTS : Differential analysis identified 165 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , and WGCNA revealed the " blue " module showing a significant correlation with HF . Integration of the DEGs and the " blue " module genes identified 28 common genes . KEGG pathway enrichment analysis suggested that these genes may be involved in the cytoskeleton in muscle cells pathway . Lasso and RF algorithms confirmed 7 key genes as potential biomarkers for HF , and further analysis using the ROC curve identified 4 hub genes with good diagnostic value , namely , High mobility group N 2 ( HMGN2 ) , Myosin Heavy Chain 6 ( MYH6 ) , High temperature requirement A1 ( HTRA1 ) , and Microfibrillar-associated protein 4 ( MFAP4 ) , which were validated in an external dataset and by RT-qPCR . Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant infiltration of immune cells in HF . T cells , NK cells , monocytes , and M2 macrophages play important roles in the development of HF , and the hub genes were closely associated with multiple immune cell types . CONCLUSION : This study identifies HMGN2 , HTRA1 , MFAP4 , and MYH6 as novel diagnostic biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets for HF . These genes are closely related to the immune microenvironment , providing new insights into the early diagnosis , treatment , and mechanistic exploration of HF .
Intrinsically disordered proteins are implicated in many diseases , but their overrepresentation among transcription factors , whose deregulation can cause disproportionate expression of oncogenes , suggests an important role in cancer . Targeting disordered transcription factors for therapy is considered challenging , as they undergo dynamic transitions and exist as an ensemble of interconverting states . This enables them to interact with multiple downstream partners , often through their transactivation domains ( TADs ) by the mechanisms of conformational selection , folding-upon-binding , or formation of " fuzzy " complexes . The TAD interfaces , despite falling outside of what is considered " classical " binding pockets , can be conformationally modulated to interfere with their target recruitment and hence represent potentially druggable sites . Here , we discuss the structure-activity relationship of TADs from p53 , c-MYC , and the androgen receptor , and the progresses made in modulating their interactions with small molecules . These recent advances highlight the potential of targeting these so far " undruggable " proteins for cancer therapy .
Management of chronic non-healing wounds in cats requires a comprehensive approach . This report describes the treatment of a severe open skin wound on the skull using a combined approach involving allogeneic adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) and autologous platelet-rich plasma ( PRP ) . A 12-year-old neutered male mixed-breed domestic cat presented with a non-healing chronic wound on the skull . The wound extended from the orbital to the occipital area and from the left to the right temporal region . Laboratory test results were positive for feline immunodeficiency virus and impaired kidney function . Sensitivity tests revealed resistance to several antibiotics . Due to limited skin reconstruction options , MSCs were administered subcutaneously at the wound edge once a month for three months . PRP was collected one month after the initial MSC administration and injected at the wound edge monthly between MSC treatments . The wound diameter was measured daily during saline cleaning . The cat received protein-supplemented food daily . Wound healing was observed two weeks after the MSC administration , gradually decreasing in size and closing completely within 5 months . This case demonstrates the successful application of MSCs and PRP for treating chronic wounds in cats .
Scutellaria baicalensis extracts ( SBE ) have demonstrated potential therapeutic effects against gastrointestinal disorders . This study evaluated the effects of SBE on zymosan-induced irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) symptoms and the underlying mechanisms involved . The major components of SBE , baicalin and baicalein , were quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography . SBE inhibited pacemaker potentials in interstitial cells of Cajal in vitro , with an IC value of 48 mug/mL . In an animal model of IBS , SBE administration restored colonic length , weight , and stool consistency . Furthermore , SBE reduced tumor necrosis factor-alpha expression and alleviated pain-associated behaviors . Histological analysis revealed that SBE treatment restored normal colon tissue structure and significantly reduced inflammation . Electrophysiological recordings demonstrated that SBE inhibited the activity of transient receptor potential ( TRP ) channels , including TRPV1 , TRPV4 and TRPA1 , as well as voltage-gated sodium channels ( NaV5 ) , which are associated with visceral pain hypersensitivity . These findings suggest that SBE has therapeutic potential , making it a promising candidate for the management of IBS .
Schizosaccharomyces pombe Nsk1 acts at kinetochores during mitosis to prevent error-prone chromosome segregation and it is phosphoregulated by Cdk1 . The Clp1 / Cdc14 protein phosphatase , to which Nsk1 binds , reverses Cdk1-mediated phosphorylation of Nsk1 during anaphase . During interphase , Nsk1 localizes exclusively to the nucleolus and its function there is unknown . In this study , we examined whether Nsk1 shares functions in the nucleolus with other known Clp1 / Cdc14 phosphatase substrates that localize there . We found that Nsk1 participates in rRNA silencing but not rDNA segregation , rDNA transcription , or nucleolar organization .
The ability of transcription factors ( TFs ) to regulate cell fate decisions is paramount in developmental , homeostatic , and pathogenic contexts . The homeodomain TF NKX2-1 is an essential and evolutionarily conserved master regulator of pulmonary fate in vertebrates . In this study , we tested the spatial-temporal ability of Xenopus and Human NKX2-1 to respecify foregut and hindgut endoderm in developing Xenopus laevis embryos into a pulmonary fate , as indicated by expression of pulmonary surfactant genes sftpc and sftpb . Interestingly , we find that both Human and Xenopus NKX2-1 can induce the ectopic expression of pulmonary surfactant genes in foregut and hindgut endoderm over a wide range of developmental times , as well as suppress the expression of midgut and hindgut specific genes . These results suggest a single pulmonary TF can reprogram developing endoderm and specify pulmonary fate . In addition , our work provides a comparative platform for future studies investigating how mutations in Human NKX2-1 may affect its transcriptional activity .
Autophagic degradation of proteasomes is a highly conserved mechanism for regulating proteasome homeostasis in eukaryotes . Here we show that Pep12 , a t-SNARE protein , is important for intralumenal vesicle formation in the vacuole and proteasome microautophagy under low glucose conditions . Deleting PEP12 in yeast cells , Saccharomyces cerevisiae , blocked proteasome fragmentation , by which the ESCRT-dependent microautophagy selectively degrades aberrant proteasomes . Accumulation of aberrant proteasomes interfered with proteasome condensate formation in pep12 cells . Autophagic bodies were present , but intralumenal vesicles and proteasome microautophagy were absent in the vacuole of pep12 cells . Therefore , Pep12 plays an important role in proteasome microautophagy .
Most studies on the ventral tegmental area ( VTA ) and substantia nigra pars compacta ( SNc ) have focused on dopamine neurons and their role in processes such as motivation , learning , movement , and associated disorders such as addiction and Parkinson ' s disease . However there has been increasing attention on other VTA and SNc cell types that release GABA , glutamate , or a combination of neurotransmitters . Yet the relative distributions and proportions of neurotransmitter-defined cell types across VTA and SNc has remained unclear . Here , we used fluorescent in situ hybridization in male and female mice to label VTA and SNc neurons that expressed mRNA encoding the canonical vesicular transporters for dopamine , GABA , or glutamate : vesicular monoamine transporter ( VMAT2 ) , vesicular GABA transporter ( VGAT ) , and vesicular glutamate transporter ( VGLUT2 ) . Within VTA , we found that no one type was particularly more abundant , instead we observed similar numbers of VMAT2+ ( 44 % ) , VGAT+ ( 37 % ) and VGLUT2+ ( 41 % ) neurons . In SNc we found that a slight majority of neurons expressed VMAT2 ( 54 % ) , fewer were VGAT+ ( 42 % ) , and VGLUT2+ neurons were least abundant ( 16 % ) . Moreover , 20 % of VTA neurons and 10 % of SNc neurons expressed more than one vesicular transporter , including 45 % of VGLUT2+ neurons . We also assessed within VTA and SNc subregions and found remarkable heterogeneity in cell-type composition . And by quantifying density across both anterior-posterior and medial-lateral axes we generated heatmaps to visualize the distribution of each cell type . Our data complement recent single-cell RNAseq studies and support a more diverse landscape of neurotransmitter-defined cell types in VTA and SNc than is typically appreciated . FAU - Conrad , William S
BACKGROUND : Hairy Cell Leukemia ( HCL ) is a B-cell lymphoproliferative disorder that predominantly affects males , yet recent evidence suggests a notable gender participation gap in HCL clinical trials . This study aims to characterize that disparity and explore potential factors contributing to the under-enrollment of females . METHODS : In this descriptive , retrospective study , we searched EMBASE , PUBMED , Cochrane Central , and ClinicalTrials . gov from January 1983 to December 2023 for publications on clinical trials ( CT ) in HCL , descriptive statistical analysis of all the sociodemographic variables was performed . RESULTS : We analyzed 57 clinical trials totaling 4595 HCL patients , with 1% male and 9% female participants . The male-to-female ratio declined from 91 ( 1983-1993 ) to 19 ( 2014-2023 ) . Although the gender gap narrowed over time , female participation slightly decreased to 2% in the most recent period ( 2014-2023 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Female enrollment in HCL clinical trials remains disproportionately low compared to incidence rates , underscoring the need to address underlying barriers to improve equity in clinical research and treatment outcomes . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The authors have confirmed clinical trial registration is not needed for this submission .
Neuroplastin 65 ( NP65 ) is a synapse-enriched glycoprotein in the central nervous system and is implicated in synaptic plasticity . In the present study , we found that NP65 knockout ( NP65 KO ) mice exhibit impaired visual function , including reductions in the amplitude of b-wave in scotopic flash electroretinogram ( fERG ) , the amplitude of N1 and P1 waves in flash visual evoked potentials ( fVEP ) , and the constriction rate in pupillary light reflexes ( PLR ) . In wild-type ( WT ) mice , NP65 is specifically enriched in the synaptic ribbon ( SR ) of ribbon synapses labeled by Ribeye in the retina . We found that NP65 KO mice display nearly normal architecture of the retina . However , NP65 KO mice show a significant decrease in the immunoreactivity of presynaptic postsynaptic density protein 95 ( PSD95 ) , synaptophysin ( SYN ) and Ribeye in the outer plexiform layer ( OPL ) . Moreover , the electron microscopy displays a decrease in synaptic ribbons and defects in postsynaptic structures in the ribbon synapses of the OPL in NP65 KO mice . In addition , we found that the apposition of presynaptic photoreceptor axonal terminals and postsynaptic bipolar cell dendrites in the OPL is misplaced in NP65 KO mice . Finally , we show that intravitreous injection of AAV-NP65 reverses the visual dysfunction , increases Ribeye expression and restores the normal arrangement in the OPL of NP65 KO mice . Together , our findings reveal that NP65 deficiency leads to visual function impairment by affecting ribbon synapses in the OPL of mice , suggesting that NP65 is critical for visual function in mammals and a potential target for degenerative retinopathy .
The direct conversion of CO , preferably from direct air capture ( DAC ) , and HO from seawater to syngas by renewable electricity , offers an alternative route toward a sustainable future for the chemical industry . To achieve this ambitious goal , an efficient electrochemical conversion route is preferred . However , high-performance and cost-effective devices for achieving such sustainable production are lacking . Here , we report an innovative micromonolithic solid oxide electrolysis cell ( SOEC ) device with a productivity of -4 A/cm at 4 V and an operational stability of approximately -0 A/cm ( -7 A/cm , 4387 N m ( syngas ) /h/m ) for 110 h ; this device has an almost 1 order of magnitude greater cost-effectiveness and has substantial environmental benefits compared to conventional tubular and planar designs . The conceptual process design of prospective sustainable electrified syngas production has the potential to achieve 1 $/Nm ( syngas ) and -92 kgCO/kg ( syngas ) . Moreover , microstructural sensitivity , three-stage degradation mechanism , and mechanical features of the cell are studied to provide deep insights .
Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is one of the most common malignancies in the world . However , the main causes of metastasis and immune cell infiltration in CRC are still unclear . This experiment was conducted to identify the key genes of metastasis and macrophage infiltration in CRC according to single-cell sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) data . By analyzing the data of GSE261012 and GSE234804 in the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database , the key node genes for the stages of tumorigenesis , epithelial-mesenchymal transition , and metastasis of CRC were found . These genes were modeled by lasso regression by The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) database , and ZFAND2A was identified as a key gene for metastasis and macrophage infiltration in CRC . Finally , the specific function of ZFAND2A in cancer cell activity was explored in vitro by qRT-PCR , WB analysis , CCK-8 , and transwell assay . The specific function of ZFAND2A in macrophage polarization was explored in vitro by qRT-PCR , ELISA , and flow cytometry . We identified crucial gene expression in the entire process of CRC tumor progression , including tumorigenesis , epithelial-mesenchymal transition , and metastasis . Ten thousand six hundred and thirty-seven genes were determined as genes associated with tumor progression and metastasis . Among them , six genes were identified to be related to CRC prognosis . The results of TCGA data indicated that ZFAND2A showed lower expression in tumors and was related to a good prognosis of CRC . Overexpression of ZFAND2A inhibits the proliferation and migration of CRC cells . Additionally , there was a correlation between ZFAND2A expression and macrophage infiltration . Increasing ZFAND2A promotes M1 polarization in macrophages . Our findings provide new potential biomarkers for the metastatic mechanisms and prognosis of CRC . In addition , ZFAND2A is expected to become a potential therapeutic target for CRC .
The development of multi-target inhibitors has garnered considerable attention in the field of cancer therapy . We have designed and synthesized a total of 80 derivatives , categorized into A , B , and C series . Among these compounds , C12 ( hIMPDH II , IC = 69 +/- 83 nM ; HDAC1 , IC = 75 +/- 82 nM ) and C18 ( hIMPDH II , IC = 50 +/- 41 nM ; HDAC1 , IC = 90 +/- 02 nM ) exhibited promising inhibitory activity against hIMPDH II and HDAC Compared to the IMPDH-positive compound MPA ( IC = 23 +/- 92 nM ) and the HDAC-positive compound SAHA ( IC = 72 +/- 22 nM ) , compound C12 ( IC value of 31 +/- 67 nM ) demonstrated superior anti-proliferative activity against K-562 cells in vitro . Compound C12 exhibited good liver microsomal stability with a moderate half-life ( T ( 1/2 ) ) . Furthermore , compound C12 exhibited acceptable in vivo pharmacokinetics of properties . In conclusion , compound C12 represents a potential new dual inhibitor targeting both hIMPDH II and HDAC
SIGNIFICANCE : In vivo one-photon fluorescence imaging of calcium and voltage indicators expressed in neurons enables noninvasive recordings of neural activity with submillisecond precision . However , data acquisition speed is limited by the frame rate of cameras . AIM : We developed a compressive streak fluorescence microscope to record fluorescence in individual neurons at high speeds ( >/= 200 frames per second ) exceeding the nominal frame rate of the camera by trading off spatial pixels for temporal resolution . APPROACH : Our microscope leverages a digital micromirror device for targeted illumination , a galvo mirror for temporal scanning , and a ridge regression algorithm for fast computational reconstruction of fluorescence traces with high temporal resolution . RESULTS : In simulations , the ridge regression algorithm reconstructs traces of high temporal resolution with limited signal loss . Validation experiments with fluorescent beads and experiments in larval zebrafish demonstrate accurate reconstruction with a data compression ratio of 10 and accurate recordings of neural activity with 200- to 400-Hz sampling speeds . CONCLUSIONS : Our compressive microscopy enables new experimental capabilities to monitor activity at a sampling speed that outpaces the nominal frame rate of the camera .
Bacterial vaginosis ( BV ) , a form of vaginal dysbiosis , is associated with numerous adverse reproductive and obstetric outcomes . Gardnerella spp . are among the key bacteria identified in most BV cases . The formation of a polymicrobial Gardnerella-dominated biofilm on the vaginal epithelium is a characteristic diagnostic marker of BV . Gardnerella colonization and biofilm formation indicate a significant adhesion potential , the determinants of which remain unexplored . In this initial approach to identify Gardnerella adhesins , we analyzed the Cna protein located on the G . vaginalis ATCC 14018 cell surface as determined previously . Structure modeling of Cna ( designated Grd Cna ) revealed that the protein contains N2 and N3 domains with an immunoglobulin ( IgG ) -like fold , which shows structural homology to the corresponding domains in SdrD and UafA proteins of the microbial surface component recognizing adhesive matrix molecules ( MSCRAMMs ) family . A single B domain shares structural similarity with the corresponding domain of Sdr proteins . The R region is rich in PKD repeats , while the C-terminal contains a non-canonical LVNTG cell wall sorting motif . The cna gene was predominantly detected in G . vaginalis isolates but was absent in other commonly identified Gardnerella species isolates . The recombinant Grd Cna protein binds dose-dependently to human fibrinogen but does not interact with fibronectin or collagen types I , III , or IV . Cna-positive G . vaginalis cells adhered to immobilized fibrinogen ; however , recombinant Cna did not inhibit this binding , suggesting that Cna may not be a major adhesin mediating G . vaginalis adherence to this ECM component .
PURPOSE : This study aimed to compare the compositional differences and functions of microbial communities in infected root canals of teeth with apical periodontitis ( AP ) and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) using 16S rDNA sequencing . METHODS : Eighteen participants were categorized into two groups based on their health conditions : AP and AP complicated with T2DM ( APDM ) . Infected root canal microbiota was clinically collected for 16S rDNA sequencing . Subsequent statistical and bioinformatics analyses were conducted after sequencing by NovaSeq , encompassing diversity analysis , intergroup difference analysis , and functional prediction analysis . RESULTS : The core microbiome of root canal microorganisms was similar in the two groups , which mainly consisted of Bacteroidota , Firmicutes , Synergistota , Actinobacteriota , Proteobacteria , Fusobacteriota , Spirochaetota . The root canals of the affected teeth of APDM had significantly higher abundance of Olsenella_uli , Peptostreptococcaceae_bacterium _oral_taxon_113_str_W5053 , W5053 , Pyramidobacter_piscolen , Pyramidobacte , Synergistaceae , Synergistales was significantly higher than AP group ( P<05 ) . Under the condition of T2DM , root canal microbial metabolism was predominantly enriched towards functions of the phosphotransferase system , ABC system , amino acid metabolism , and carbohydrate metabolism . CONCLUSION : The microbial community in the infected root canals of APDM showed similarities to AP yet exhibited differences in certain species and microbial functions .
BACKGROUND : Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome ( SFTS ) is an emerging tick-borne infectious disease characterized by rapid progression and high mortality . Glucocorticoids ( GCs ) can be used as anti-inflammatory agents for SFTS , but no standardized protocols have been proposed . METHODS : A total of 901 patients with SFTS diagnosed at two hospitals between July 2017 and October 2023 were included in this retrospective cohort study . Univariate and multivariate logistic regression were performed along with LASSO regression to identify independent risk factors of fatal outcomes and further develop mortality prediction model . A nomogram was used to visualize the predictive model . ROC curves , calibration curves , and DCA curves were conducted to assess model accuracy and clinical applicability . The efficacy of GC was assessed using survival analyses , and further subgroup analyses of the effects of different GC regimens on fatal outcomes and hospital-acquired infections ( HAI ) were performed . Propensity score matching ( PSM ) analyses were conducted to control confounding factors . RESULTS : Older age ( age > 69 years ) , consciousness disturbance , decreased monocyte counts , prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time ( APTT ) , and high viral load were identified as strong predictors of fatal outcomes in patients with SFTS . Patients were classified into mild and severe groups according to risk scores calculated by the nomogram ( cut-off value = 43 ) . Survival analyses showed that GCs treatment may reduce the mortality in severe patients ( p = 004 ) . Further subgroup analyses indicated that relatively high doses and early treatment with GCs may increase mortality in SFTS patients [OR = 292 ( 071 , 066 ) ; OR = 693 ( 710 , 345 ) respectively] . GCs treatment was associated with an elevated risk of HAI in patients both with mild and severe SFTS ( p = 024 ; p = 015 , respectively ) . Initiation of GCs therapy at a low level of aspartate aminotransferase ( AST < 75 U/L ) reduced the mortality before and after PSM ( p<001 ; p = 004 , respectively ) . CONCLUSIONS : A new nomogram based on five independent risk factors effectively predicts the prognosis of SFTS . Severe patients and those with low AST levels might benefit from GCs therapy while early and relatively high doses of GCs therapy should be used with caution .
Klebsiella variicola is a member of Klebsiella pneumoniae complex and an emerging zoonotic pathogen . As part of the lymphatic system , the spleen plays a pivotal role in destroying invading pathogens . Various microRNAs ( miRNAs ) are involved in host resistance to pathogens . However , specific miRNAs that act against K . variicola remain unknown . Therefore , RNA sequencing ( RNA-Seq ) of the miRNA profile of the chicken spleen was conducted to further clarify the host immune response to K . variicola infection . Challenge of 7-day-old chicks with K . variicola strain AHKV-S01 caused severe damage and enlargement of the spleen . In total , 22 differentially expressed ( DE ) miRNAs ( fold change>2 , q< 05 ) were identified . Functional annotation analysis of the target genes of DE miRNAs found that signaling pathways related to innate immunity , inflammation , and metabolism were significantly enriched . Notably , expression of gga-miR-2954 was significantly upregulated in the infection group as compared to the control group . In vitro , gga-miR-2954 directly repressed luciferase reporter gene activity by binding to the 3 ' untranslated regions of STAB Overexpression of gga-miR-2954 in HD11 macrophages significantly inhibited expression of STAB1 , which is involved in activation of several proinflammatory cytokines . K . variicola induced damage to the spleen by over activation of inflammatory and innate immune responses . The observed changes to the miRNA expression profile of the chicken spleen elucidate host immune responses to K . variicola infection , providing critical insights for developing novel therapeutic strategies to enhance chicken resistance against this pathogen .
OBJECTIVE : To explore the clinical value of extending the culture time for accurately diagnosing hip or knee PJI . METHODS : This retrospective study included 201 hip or knee PJI patients . All specimens were cultured using a standardized procedure . For all samples collected after January 2022 , the extended culture period was 14 to 21 days . The detection accuracy and pathogen distribution of the standard culture duration ( 7 days ) was compared with those extending . RESULTS : The overall culture positivity rate was 05% ( 179/201 ) . The most common pathogens were coagulase-negative staphylococci ( CoNS , n=54 ) and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA , n=26 ) . Extending the culture duration did not significantly increase the culture positivity rate ( 05% vs . 06% , P=997 ) , nor did it improve the infection control rate ( 05% vs . 94% , P=526 ) . Further study revealed that extended results did not improve the diagnosis of PJI according to the Musculoskeletal Infection Society ( MSIS ) criteria in most patients with both positive standard and extended culture results ( 35% , 28/34 ) . Four of the 5 patients with only positive extended culture results were diagnosed with PJI on the basis of a single positive culture result . CONCLUSION : Extending the culture time didn ' t significantly improve the clinical outcomes of PJI , rate of culture positivity or polymicrobial infection detection rate .
Bovine herpesvirus type 1 ( BHV-1 ) is a highly contagious DNA virus that causes a variety of diseases affecting the reproductive and respiratory tracts . These diseases can reduce the health and production performance of cattle , causing significant economic losses in the cattle industry . The current ELISA kits used to detect BHV-1 have long lead times and are expensive , and are not suitable for bulk testing on large farms . therefore , there is an urgent need to develop a rapid and cost-effective alternative to the BHV-1 test . In this study , recombinant gD protein was expressed by prokaryotic system , and then used as antigen to immunize New Zealand white rabbits to obtain polyclonal antibodies ( pAb ) . An indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( iELISA ) based on gD protein was established for the detection of BHV-1 antibodies in clinical samples . The optimal cutoff value was determined to be 6185 using 60 clinical serum samples . This method had no cross-reaction with other common bovine viruses . The developed iELISA method and commercially available kits were used to detect 60 bovine serum samples , with a concordance rate of 3% . In summary , we established a rapid and reliable iELISA method based on gD protein , which is suitable for epidemio-logical monitoring of BHV-
Despite years of global efforts to combat tuberculosis ( TB ) , Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) , the causative agent of this disease , continues to haunt the humankind making TB elimination a distant task . To comprehend the pathogenic nuances of this organism , various in vitro , ex vivo and in vivo experimental models have been employed by researchers . This review focuses on the salient features as well as pros and cons of various model systems employed for TB research . In vitro and ex vivo macrophage infection models have been extensively used for studying Mtb physiology . Animal models have provided us with great wealth of information and have immensely contributed to the understanding of TB pathogenesis and host responses during infection . Additionally , they have been used for evaluation of anti-mycobacterial drug therapy as well as for determining the efficacy of potential vaccine candidates . Advancements in various ' omics ' based approaches have enhanced our understanding about the host-pathogen interface . Although animal models have been the cornerstone to TB research , none of them is ideal that gives us a complete picture of human infection , disease and progression . Further , the review also discusses about the newer systems including three dimensional ( 3D ) -tissue models , lung-on-chip infection model , in vitro TB granuloma model and their limitations for studying TB . Thus , converging information gained from various in vitro and ex vivo models in tandem with in vivo experiments will ultimately bridge the gap that exists in understanding human TB .
INTRODUCTION : Helicobacter pylori ( H . pylori ) infection induced miRNA dysregulation plays an important role in gastric cancer ( GC ) and exosomes mediate the spread of pathogenic effects . METHODS : Expression of miR-362-5p and its clinical significance in GC were analyzed using data from TCGA . The effects of miR-362-5p on GC cells ' proliferation and migration were examined by using CCK-8 , EdU , transwell and scratch assays . MKN45 xenograft model in nude mice was employed to evaluate impacts of miR-362-5p on GC progression in vivo . Target gene of miR-362-5p was screened by bioinformatic analysis and verified by using dual-luciferase assay . Exosomes from H . pylori-infected GES-1 cell ( Hp-GES-EVs ) were isolated and miR-362-5p inside the exosome was detected . The uptake of exosome by GC cells was observed through fluorescence imaging and exosome-mediated pathogenesis was explored . Furthermore , the transport of exosome-mediated miR-362-5p via blood was examined . The effect of exosome-carried miR-362-5p on hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) progression was investigated by hepatocyte ' s uptake , proliferation and migration assays . RESULTS : miR-362-5p was significantly upregulated in GC tissues associated with H . pylori infection . Downregulation of miR-362-5p in GC cells inhibited proliferation and migration in vitro and suppressed tumor growth in vivo , counteracting H . pylori-induced carcinogenesis . TLE4 was confirmed as a direct target of miR-362-5p , and miR-362-5p/TLE4 axis implicated in H . pylori-driven neoplastic transformations in GC cells . Hp-GES-EVs mediated the transport of miR-362-5p , was absorbed by GC cells and detected at elevated levels in the serum of infected mice . Moreover , Hp-GES-EVs were diffused to liver and taken up by liver cells , enhancing HCC cell proliferation and migration by targeting TLE CONCLUSION : H . pylori infection upregulates miR-362-5p , facilitating GC progression via TLE4 targeting . Exosome-mediated transfer amplifies its effects , contributing to liver damage and potentially facilitating HCC .
INTRODUCTION : Cervical carcinoma ( CC ) remains one of the significant cancers threatening women ' s health globally . Increasing evidence suggests that alterations in the microbiota are closely associated with cancer development . However , the understanding of reliable biomarkers and underlying mechanisms during the aggravation of cervical neoplasia such as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( CIN ) and CC is still relatively limited . METHODS : In this study , cervical swab samples from 53 healthy controls , 51 high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion ( HSIL ) , and 52 CC patients were subjected to 16S rDNA sequencing and metabolomics analysis . RESULTS : We observed significant differences in the cervical microbiota between CC patients and healthy controls or HSIL groups . Compared to the healthy controls , CC patients exhibited increased microbial diversity , decreased abundance of Lactobacillus , and notable changes in microbial composition . Metabolomics analysis revealed significantly elevated levels of the inflammatory mediator Prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2 ) in CC samples . Through random forest modeling and ROC curve analysis , we identified a combination of key microbiota ( Porphyromonas , Pseudofulvibacter ) and metabolites ( Cellopentaose , PGE2 ) as diagnostic biomarkers with high diagnostic value for CC . Furthermore , we found a significant correlation between the cervical microbiota Porphyromonas and the metabolite PGE2 , suggesting a potential role of key microbiota in inducing inflammation . DISCUSSION : These findings indicate that alterations in cervical microbiota and metabolites may be closely associated with the occurrence and aggravation of cervical neoplasia , providing new insights for further understanding the mechanisms of cervical neoplasia progression and developing novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic approaches .
BACKGROUND : Infectious diseases that require tissue biopsy are usually more difficult to diagnose through conventional microbiological tests ( CMT ) , and knowledge of the infection microbiota pattern from biopsied tissues remains incomplete . Our study aimed to investigate the diagnostic and prognostic value of metagenomic next-generation sequencing ( mNGS ) , characterize the microbiota profile from biopsied tissues , and examine its relationship with clinical outcomes . METHODS : This retrospective cohort study included 110 patients who underwent tissue biopsy and sent both mNGS and CMT due to suspected complex infection . Microbiota patterns were illustrated via unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis . Multivariate regression analysis was used to investigate the effect measures . RESULTS : The sensitivity of mNGS was significantly higher than that of CMT regarding bacteria ( 23% vs 43% , P=01 ) , viruses ( 100% vs 56% , P<001 ) , and fungi ( 5% vs 6% , P=04 ) . Polymicrobial infection accounted for 2% ( 33/73 ) of the infection samples . In skeletal articular biopsied tissues , Staphylococcus presented the highest mean abundance among different species of bacteria ( 2% of all bacterial reads , standard deviation ( SD ) 9 ) . Anaerobic bacteria ( 0% , SD 9 ) represented the most common bacteria in biopsied tissue from the lung or mediastinum . The presence of gram-negative bacteria ( adjusted OR 21 , 95% CI 39-43 , P=01 ) , Enterobacteriaceae ( adjusted OR 71 , 95% CI 17-03 , P=03 ) and Staphylococcus ( adjusted OR 64 , 95% CI 95-34 , P=005 ) was associated with an increased risk of treatment failure . Early mNGS sampling within 7 days after admission was associated with a significantly decreased risk of all-cause mortality ( HR 18 , 95% CI 04-94 ; P=04 ) , treatment failure ( OR 17 , 95% CI 05-66 ; P=01 ) , and increased probability of clinical resolution ( OR 03 , 95% CI 24-40 ; P=01 ) . CONCLUSION : mNGS demonstrates significant diagnostic and prognostic efficacy in patients undergoing tissue biopsy for suspected complex infections . The presence of Gram-negative bacteria , Enterobacteriaceae , and Staphylococcus is associated with a higher probability of treatment failure , which underscores the advantage of using mNGS to guide more aggressive antibiotic strategies .
Bacteria in the Chlamydiales order are obligate intracellular parasites of eukaryotic cells . Within this order , the genus Chlamydia contains the causative agents of a number of clinically important infections in humans . Biovars of Chlamydia trachomatis are the causative agents of trachoma and the leading cause of preventable blindness worldwide , as well as sexually transmitted infections with the potential to cause pelvic inflammatory disease and infertility . Irrespective of the resulting disease , all chlamydial species share the same obligate intracellular life cycle and developmental cell forms . They are reliant on an infectious cycle consisting of at least three phenotypically distinct cell forms termed the reticulate body ( RB ) , the intermediate body ( IB ) , and the elementary body ( EB ) . The EB is infectious but does not replicate . The RB replicates in the host cell but is non-infectious , while the IB is an intermediate form that transitions to the EB form . In this study , we ectopically expressed the transcriptional repressor Euo , the two nucleoid-associated proteins HctA and HctB , and the two-component sensor kinase CtcB in the RB . Transcriptional analysis using RNA-seq , differential expression clustering , and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis shows that the chlamydial developmental cycle is driven by three distinct regulons corresponding to the RB , IB , or EB cell forms . Moreover , we show that the genes for the type III secretion system ( T3SS ) were cell type restricted , suggesting defined functional roles for the T3SS in specific cell forms . IMPORTANCE : Chlamydia trachomatis , a sexually transmitted bacterial infection , poses a significant global health threat , causing over 100 million infections annually and leading to complications like ectopic pregnancy and infertility . This study investigates the gene expression patterns of C . trachomatis during its unique life cycle within human cells . As an obligate intracellular parasite , C . trachomatis transitions through distinct developmental stages-one for infection and dissemination , another for replication , and a third for transitioning back to the infectious form . By analyzing gene expression profiles at each stage , we identified key genes involved in these processes . Interestingly , our research also reveals the presence of two separate type III secretion system ( T3SS ) translocons expressed in distinct stages , suggesting their crucial roles in specific functions during the infection cycle .
[This corrects the article DOI : 3389/fcimb . ] .
Periodontitis ( PD ) is the most common oral infectious disease . The primary etiologic cause of the onset and development of PD is dental plaque , which consists of bacterial biofilm domiciled within a complex extracellular mass . In PD patients , there is a progressive breakdown of the periodontal ligament and the alveolar bone . In more advanced stages , tooth loss occurs . The progression of this chronic inflammatory disease involves interactions among numerous microbial pathogens particularly , bacteria , the host ' s immune factors , and various environmental factors . Due to persistent infection by periodonto-pathogenic bacteria , there is an impairment of both innate and acquired immunity , leading to tissue destruction . Chronic inflammation in PD may be associated with several systemic diseases , including cardiovascular conditions , respiratory issues , diabetes , neurological diseases , cancer , and adverse pregnancy outcomes . Antibiotic treatment is one of the effective strategies for treating PD cases , although the emergence of some resistant strains may limit the effectiveness some antibiotics . In this review study , we discussed the main bacteria in PD , the interaction with the immune response , the pathogenesis of bacteria in PD and antibiotic treatment . We also outlined the emergence of resistance to antibiotics among these pathogens .
Inflammation plays a fundamental role in the development and bidirectional association of di-verse diseases , such as periodontitis and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) , which generates important clinical complications , where chronic exposure to high levels of blood glucose affects the repair process of periodontal tissues . Likewise , it has been observed that comorbidity , between these two diseases , influences the development of the COVID-19 disease towards a more severe course . However , there is currently very little scientific evidence on the relationship between periodontitis , T2DM and COVID-19 disease . This narrative review aims to provide an understanding of the current and most relevant aspects of the relationship between periodontitis , T2DM and COVID-19 disease . A narrative review was performed through a systematic search of published studies , without date restrictions , indexed in the electronic databases of PubMed , for the inclusion of articles in English , and LILACS for the inclusion of articles in Spanish . This review included different articles , which addressed the most important aspects to present a current perspective on the relationship and influence between periodontitis , T2DM and COVID-19 disease . Comorbidity between periodontitis and T2DM represents a greater risk of developing a more severe course of COVID-19 disease , because these three diseases share three important axes : a clinicopathological axis ; an axis associated with glycemia , and an immunological axis associated with inflammation .
INTRODUCTION : Specific antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) regimens are associated with weight gain in people living with HIV ( PLWH ) . Gut microbiota is involved in weight gain in humans and animals . Human gut microbiota can be classified into enterotypes with distinct microbial and functional profiles . METHODS : In a cohort of 118 PLWH , we analyzed the gut microbiome in relation to weight gain and ART regimen using 16S rRNA gene sequencing , taking enterotype classification into account . RESULTS : The enterotype was strongly associated with sexual orientation . Of the 67 individuals forming a Prevotella-dominated enterotype cluster in principal coordinates analysis , 93% were men who had sex with men ( MSM ) , while 31% of individuals in the Bacteroides-dominated enterotype cluster were MSM and 69% were non-MSM . Forty-nine genera differed significantly between the MSM and non-MSM individuals . When stratified by dominant genus , only six taxa were associated with weight gain . Of these , five were restricted to Bacteroides-dominated individuals . Among them , the class Actinobacteria and genus Bifidobacterium differed between individuals gaining more than 5% weight and less than 5% weight 1 year after ART switch . Additionally , three taxa were significantly different between 15% of individuals with the highest weight gain ( >/=3% ) and the highest weight loss ( </=19% ) 1 year after ART switch , including the phyla Firmicutes , Verrucomicrobia , and Synergistetes . Distinct functional properties in Bacteroides , but not Prevotella-dominated enterotype individuals , linked to weight gain were observed , particularly for glycan and lipid metabolism . Additionally , ART regimen-associated differences were observed for the phylum Actinobacteria , although this was limited to Prevotella-dominated enterotype individuals . DISCUSSION : Differences in the composition and functional characteristics of the gut microbiome associated with weight gain and ART regimens were enterotype-specific and relatively small compared with differences linked to sexual orientation . Due to the substantial differences in gut microbiome structure among many MSM , categorization into enterotypes is useful for identifying differences in microbiome composition associated with variables such as weight gain or ART , which may be limited to a single enterotype . This may further advance the identification of microbes that contribute to weight gain or alter the gut microbiome composition in the context of the enterotype .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) remains a global health challenge , with timely and accurate diagnosis being critical for effective disease management and control . Recent advancements in the field of TB diagnostics have focused on the identification and utilization of blood-based biomarkers , offering a non-invasive , rapid , and scalable approach to disease detection . This review provides a comprehensive overview of the latest progress in blood-based biomarkers for TB , highlighting their potential to revolutionize diagnostic strategies . Furthermore , we explore emerging technologies such as NGS , PET-CT , Xpert and line probe assays , which have enhanced the sensitivity , specificity , and accessibility of biomarker-based diagnostics . The integration of artificial intelligence ( AI ) and machine learning ( ML ) in biomarker analysis is also examined , showcasing its potential to improve diagnostic accuracy and predictive capabilities . This review underscores the need for multidisciplinary collaboration and continued innovation to translate these promising technologies into practical , point-of-care solutions . By addressing these challenges , blood-based biomarkers and emerging technologies hold the potential to significantly improve TB diagnosis , ultimately contributing to global efforts to eradicate this devastating disease .
Backgrounds and Aims : Lung squamous cell carcinoma ( LUSC ) represents a significant challenge in oncology , necessitating the identification of novel prognostic markers and therapeutic targets . This study is aimed at investigating the oncogenic role of MXD3 ( MAX Dimerization Protein 3 ) in LUSC and its implications for patient prognosis . Methods : A retrospective cohort of 199 LUSC patients from the 905th Hospital of People ' s Liberation Army Navy was analyzed to evaluate MXD3 expression levels and their association with clinicopathological characteristics and survival outcomes . Immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) staining was performed to assess MXD3 expression in LUSC tissue samples . Survival analyses , including the Kaplan-Meier curves and multivariate Cox regression , were conducted to determine the prognostic significance of MXD3 expression and other clinicopathological factors . Additionally , the methylation status of MXD3 was examined using data from the TCGA database to assess its role in regulating MXD3 expression and survival outcomes . Results : MXD3 expression exhibited significant heterogeneity among LUSC patients , with high MXD3 expression correlating with advanced tumor differentiation grade , larger tumor size , and advanced T and N stages . The Kaplan-Meier survival analyses revealed that high MXD3 expression was associated with shorter cancer-specific survival . Multivariate Cox regression identified MXD3 expression level and lymph node involvement ( N stage ) as independent prognostic factors for cancer-specific survival in LUSC patients . Additionally , analysis of MXD3 methylation revealed significantly lower methylation levels in LUSC tissues , and reduced methylation correlated with poorer survival outcomes . Conclusions : Our findings highlight MXD3 as a promising prognostic biomarker for LUSC , with high MXD3 expression predicting poorer survival outcomes . MXD3 expression level , along with lymph node involvement and methylation status , could serve as independent prognostic indicators for risk stratification and treatment decision-making in LUSC patients . Further research is warranted to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of MXD3-mediated tumorigenesis and its potential as a therapeutic target in LUSC management .
Lignin deposition in stone cells is a critical factor that limits pear fruit quality , affecting their market value . Calcium ions ( Ca ( 2+ ) ) play an essential role in lignin biosynthesis during fruit stone cell production . However , the genetic mechanisms underlying the Ca ( 2+ ) regulated lignin synthesis in stone cell formation are not fully understood . In this study , we identified an NAC transcription factor ( TF ) PuNAC21 , which is repressed by CaCl treatment . PuNAC21 bound directly to the lignin biosynthesis gene peroxidase 42-like ( PuPRX42-like ) promoter , Ca ( 2+ ) reduced pear fruit stone cell production dependent on PuNAC21 positively regulating PuPRX42-like expression . Furthermore , PuNAC21 directly regulated the expression of PuDof5 , a TF involved in lignin biosynthesis by binding to PuPRX42-like and caffeoyl-CoA-O-methyltransferase 1 ( PuCCoAOMT1 ) promoters . Moreover , PuNAC21 interacted with PuDof5 to form a transcriptional regulatory module , lowering the transcription of PuPRX42-like and PuCCoAOMT1 after Ca ( 2+ ) treatment , which contributed to decrease pear stone cells production . Our results revealed Ca ( 2+ ) -induced PuNAC21-PuDof5-PuPRX42-like/PuCCoAOMT1 regulatory module inhibited lignin biosynthesis , giving important insights into reducing the stone cell content in pears via molecular breeding .
Ribosomal protein haploinsufficiency causes Diamond-Blackfan anemia ( DBA ) and other ribosomopathies . DBA has been linked to p53 activation and reduced GATA1 expression , but these mechanisms do not fully explain the disease . This study unveils that deficiencies in small ( RPS ) or large ( RPL ) ribosomal subunit proteins cause a p53-independent loss of ATF4 , a master regulator of stress responses and erythropoiesis , by reducing the pool of actively translating ATF4 mRNAs . This defect is more pronounced in RPS deficiencies because the loss of 40S , but not 60S , subunits cause a destabilization of ATF4 transcripts . ATF4 downregulation occurs in early hematopoietic progenitors and correlates with the severity of erythroid differentiation defects in patients with DBA . It is also linked to the de-repression of fetal hemoglobin in erythroid cells , a frequent feature in patients with DBA . Our findings indicate that impaired ATF4 expression might be a primary contributor to DBA and explain the aggravated erythroid failure of RPS-mutant patients .
Recent insights into the immune response in fibrosis have provided valuable perspectives for the treatment of liver fibrosis . Macrophages , as the most abundant immune cells in the liver , are key drivers of liver fibrosis . They are extensively involved in tissue damage , chronic inflammation , and the progression and regression of liver fibrosis . This study aims to conduct a bibliometric analysis and literature review on the mechanisms by which macrophages contribute to liver fibrosis . Specifically , we analyzed a bibliometric dataset comprising 1 , 312 papers from 59 countries , 1 , 872 institutions , and 9 , 784 authors . Keyword co-occurrence analysis identified key research hotspots , including the role of macrophage subtypes in obesity-related metabolic disorders , the crosstalk between macrophages and hepatic stellate cells through mechanoimmunology , emerging strategies for immune modulation targeting macrophages to promote fibrosis regression and liver regeneration , and new discoveries regarding macrophage crosstalk with other immune cells . In conclusion , this study provides a visual analysis of the current research landscape , hotspots , and trends in the field of macrophages and liver fibrosis , and discusses future directions for further exploration in this area .
In the field of tumor treatment , drug resistance remains a significant challenge requiring urgent intervention . Recent developments in cell death research have highlighted cuproptosis , a mechanism of cell death induced by copper , as a promising avenue for understanding tumor biology and addressing drug resistance . Cuproptosis is initiated by the dysregulation of copper homeostasis , which in turn triggers mitochondrial metabolic disruptions and induces proteotoxic stress . This process specifically entails the accumulation of lipoylated proteins and the depletion of iron-sulfur cluster proteins within the context of the tricarboxylic acid cycle . Simultaneously , it is accompanied by the activation of distinct signaling pathways that collectively lead to cell death . Emerging evidence highlights the critical role of cuproptosis in addressing tumor drug resistance . However , the core molecular mechanisms of cuproptosis , regulation of the tumor microenvironment , and clinical translation pathways still require further exploration . This review examines the intersection of cuproptosis and tumor drug resistance , detailing the essential roles of cuproptosis-related genes and exploring the therapeutic potential of copper ionophores , chelators , and nanodelivery systems . These mechanisms offer promise for overcoming resistance and advancing tumor precision medicine . By elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying cuproptosis , this study aims to identify novel therapeutic strategies and targets , thereby paving the way for the development of innovative anti-cancer drugs .
AIM : Insulin resistance ( IR ) is a hazard to human health in which peripheral insulin-target organs , like the liver , become less sensitive to normal levels of insulin . Dexamethasone ( DEX ) -induced IR is a distinct model of IR . Hence , the present study investigates the efficacy of mangiferin ( Mang ) in the reversal of DEX-induced IR in the livers and aortas of rats . MAIN METHODS : Rats were randomly assigned into six groups : control ( CTRL ) , Mang , DEX , and three pretreated groups ( received Mang 25 mg/kg , 50 mg/kg , or 100 mg/kg , orally for 14 days , with DEX ( 1 mg/kg ) injected from day 8 to day 14 ) . On day 15 , serum , liver , and aorta tissues were obtained and examined using biochemical , histological , and immunohistochemical assessments . KEY FINDINGS : Mang administration attenuated DEX-induced IR , evidenced by decreased oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) and fasting serum insulin levels , in addition to improving the DEX-induced hepatic and aortic histopathological alterations . Additionally , Mang attenuated DEX-induced alterations in liver function parameters and improved serum lipid profiles , oxidative stress , and antioxidant biomarkers . Mang also markedly increased hepatic and aortic levels of insulin receptor substrate 1 ( IRS1 ) , protein kinase B ( AKT ) , AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) , and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ( PPAR-gamma ) levels . Mang reduced hepatic and aortic tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , forkhead box protein O1 ( FOXO-1 ) , hepatic NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 ( NLRP3 ) , phosphoenol pyruvate carboxy kinase ( PEPCK ) , and glucose 6-phosphatase ( G6Pase ) . Mang elevated hepatic glycogen synthase kinase3 ( GSK3alpha ) and glycogen synthase ( GS2 ) levels . Furthermore , Mang ameliorated aortic expression levels of endothelin-1 ( ET-1 ) , vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( VCAM ) , c-Jun N-terminal kinase ( JNK ) , nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and increased endothelial nitric oxide synthase ( eNOS ) and prostacyclin ( PGI2 ) levels . CONCLUSION : Mang administration could confer hepato- and vasculo-protective activity via its hypolipidemic , hepatoprotective , anti-inflammatory , and antioxidant efficacy .
BACKGROUND : The sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor ( SGLT2i ) dapagliflozin has been demonstrated cardiovascular benefits in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) . However , the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood . METHODS : We conducted an 8-week , single-arm clinical trial , which enrolled 12 patients with inadequate glycemic control on metformin monotherapy . These patients were treated with SGLT2i dapagliflozin ( 10 mg/day ) . We assessed changes in clinical parameters pertinent to glucose metabolism and risk factors of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , as well as alterations in the gut microbiota using macrogene sequencing . RESULTS : Improvements were observed in anthropometric parameters , glucose metabolism , blood lipid-related indices , inflammatory markers , and endothelial cell function-related parameters . Concurrently , SGLT2i led to changes in composition and functional pathways of the gut microbiota , manifested as increased abundance of probiotics and decreased abundance of harmful bacteria . Importantly , reduced abundance of Fusobacterium was correlated with improvements in various clinical indicators . CONCLUSION : SGLT2i represents a superior initial therapeutic option for T2DM patients at risk of CVD . The cardiovascular benefits of SGLT2i may be attributed to shifts in the gut microbiota , particularly the reduced abundance of Fusobacterium .
Chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T-cell therapy has emerged as a groundbreaking immunotherapeutic approach , particularly for oncohematological patients who are refractory to conventional treatments . As clinical trials expand the applications of CAR T-cell therapy beyond hematologic malignancies , a critical understanding of its associated toxicities , particularly cardiovascular complications , becomes imperative . This review synthesizes current literature on the interplay between cytokine release syndrome ( CRS ) and cardiotoxicity related to CAR T-cell therapy , emphasizing the potential severity of these adverse events . While significant progress has been made in managing CRS , the cardiac manifestations-ranging from mild events to life-threatening complications-remain underreported in pivotal studies . We explore the incidence and nature of cardiotoxicity in real-world and clinical trial settings , identify risk factors contributing to cardiovascular events , and propose guidelines for pre-therapy evaluations , post-infusion monitoring , and management strategies . By highlighting the urgent need for heightened awareness and proactive care , this review aims to enhance patient safety and optimize outcomes in the evolving landscape of CAR T-cell therapy .
INTRODUCTION : Intestinal ischemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) injury represents an inevitable and formidable postoperative challenge for all clinical surgeons . Ferroptosis has emerged as a crucial factor in the pathogenesis of intestinal I/R injury . Metformin , which is known to exhibit antiferroptotic properties , has elicited significant attention from both researchers and clinicians . This study was designed to comprehensively examine the protective effects of metformin against intestinal I/R injury and to elucidate the underlying potential mechanisms . METHODS : To achieve this goal , both in vivo and in vitro models of I/R injury were established . For the in vivo experiments , metformin was administered via intraperitoneal injection at the onset of reperfusion . RESULTS : The results from HE staining in the in vivo model , along with IF staining of tight junction proteins in the in vitro model , clearly demonstrated that metformin effectively mitigated the damage to the intestinal barrier following I/R injury . Additionally , metformin was shown to improve ROS levels and mitochondrial function in the context of I/R injury . Moreover , metfornin was observed to reduce the formation of mitochondria-associated membranes ( MAMs ) , which is a process that is intricately linked to the onset of ferroptosis . Significantly , Western blot analysis of key ferroptosis-related proteins , including GPX4 , FTH1 and SLC7A11 , indicated that metformin inhibited ferroptosis . DISCUSSION : In conclusion , this study suggests that metformin exerts beneficial effects on intestinal I/R injury by suppressing MAM formation and ferroptosis , thereby highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for this challenging clinical condition .
CAR T cell efficacy in solid tumors is limited due in part to the immunosuppressive TME . To improve anti-tumor responses , we hypothesized that enabling CAR T cells to secrete bifunctional fusion proteins consisting of a cytokine modifier ( e . g . , TGFbetatrap , IL15 , or IL12 ) combined with an immune checkpoint inhibitor ( e . g . , alphaPDL1 ) will provide tumor localized immunomodulation to improve CAR T cell functionality . To that end , we engineered CAR T cells to secrete TGFbetatrap , IL15 , or IL12 molecules fused to alphaPDL1 scFv , and assessed in vitro functionality and in vivo safety and efficacy in prostate and ovarian cancer models . CAR T cells engineered with alphaPDL1-IL12 were superior in safety and efficacy compared to CAR T cells alone and to those engineered with alphaPDL1 fused with TGFbetatrap or IL Further , alphaPDL1-IL12 engineered CAR T cells improved T cell trafficking and tumor infiltration , localized IFNgamma production , TME modulation , and anti-tumor responses , with reduced systemic inflammation-associated toxicities . We believe our alphaPDL1-IL12 engineering strategy presents an opportunity to improve CAR T cell clinical efficacy and safety across multiple solid tumor types . FAU - Murad , John P
Malaria parasites infect red blood cells where they digest host hemoglobin and release free heme inside a lysosome-like organelle called the food vacuole . To detoxify excess heme , parasites form hemozoin crystals that rapidly tumble inside this compartment . Hemozoin formation is critical for parasite survival and antimalarial drug activity , but crystal motion and its underlying mechanism are unexplored . We used quantitative image analysis to determine the timescale of motion , which requires the intact vacuole but does not require the parasite itself . Using single-particle tracking and Brownian dynamics simulations with experimentally derived interaction potentials , we found that hemozoin motion exhibits unexpectedly tight confinement but is much faster than thermal diffusion . Hydrogen peroxide , which is generated at high concentrations in the food vacuole , has been shown to stimulate metallic nanoparticle motion via surface-catalyzed peroxide decomposition that generates propulsive kinetic energy . We observed that peroxide stimulated the motion of isolated crystals in solution and that conditions that suppress peroxide formation slowed hemozoin motion inside parasites . These data suggest that surface-exposed metals on hemozoin catalyze peroxide decomposition to drive crystal motion and strengthen oxidative stress protection during blood-stage infection . This work reveals hemozoin motion in malaria parasites as a biological example of a self-propelled nanoparticle . FAU - Hastings , Erica M
Ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) is methylated in organisms ranging from bacteria to metazoans . Despite the pervasiveness of rRNA methylation in biology , the function of rRNA methylation on ribosome function is poorly understood . In this work , we identify a biological function for the rRNA 2 ' -O-methylcytidine methyltransferase TlyA , conserved between Bacillus subtilis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) . The tlyA deletion in B . subtilis confers a cold sensitive phenotype and resistance to aminoglycoside antibiotics that target the 16S rRNA . We show that Delta tlyA cells have ribosome assembly defects characterized by accumulation of the 50S subunit . Using a genetic approach and based on sequence alignments with other rRNA methyltransferases we tested the importance of potential catalytic residues and S-adenosyl-L-methionine ( SAM ) cofactor binding sites . We show that TlyA shares the common rRNA methyltransferase catalytic triad KDK and a SAM binding motif GxSxG which differs from Mtb TlyA . Together our work demonstrates that B . subtilis tlyA is critical for ribosome assembly and we identify key residues for TlyA function in vivo . Since E . coli lacks TlyA or a functional equivalent , our work highlights key differences in ribosome maturation between B . subtilis , Mtb and more divergent Gram-negative bacteria providing new insight into translation and antibiotic resistance mechanisms . FAU - Hibma , Jennie L
Myosin 2 , an actin-dependent motor , is universally responsible for cell contractility due to its ability to form bipolar filaments . Fast turnover of nonmuscle myosin 2 ( NM2 ) filaments is necessary to keep up with cell motility and shape changes . The turnover mechanisms are not fully understood and differ for two main mammalian paralogs-NM2A and NM2B-whereas paralog copolymerization adds complexity to this process by enabling the intrinsically fast NM2A to dynamize the intrinsically slow NM2B . Here , we show that the nonhelical tail , the C-terminal phosphorylation sites , and surprisingly , the motor domain of the NM2A heavy chain synergistically accelerate the turnover of NM2B in trans and cell motility , suggesting that these three mechanisms collectively control NM2A ' s own dynamics . Conversely , the phosphomimetic NM2B tail facilitates only local turnover of endogenous wild type NM2B but not its global redistribution unless the NM2A motor is combined with the phosphomimetic NM2B tail . Collectively , we reveal the cooperation between the motor activity and the NM2 tail-targeting turnover mechanisms in regulating the NM2 filament turnover in trans and cell motility . SUMMARY : Turnover of nonmuscle myosin 2 ( NM2 ) filaments is essential for cell motility and is regulated by various mechanisms including copolymerization of the NM2A and NM2B paralogs . Chougule and Svitkina reveal how the intrinsically fast NM2A accelerates dynamics of slower NM2B in trans . FAU - Chougule , Anil
Mucosal-associated invariant T ( MAIT ) cells recognize microbial derivatives of riboflavin synthesis presented by the MHC class I-related ( MR1 ) molecule . Although these metabolites are highly conserved among bacteria , the cells that present them remain unknown . Here , we show type-17 MAIT cells respond to diverse isolates of the extracellular pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii and promote bacterial clearance . Both hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cells mediate MR1 presentation within the lungs and mediastinal lymph nodes ( meLNs ) . Conversely , the type-1 MAIT cell response to the intracellular pathogen Francisella tularensis requires MR1 presentation by type-2 conventional dendritic cells ( cDC2s ) within meLNs and ablation of these cells or their expression of MR1 renders animals more susceptible to the infection . Although MR1 is broadly expressed at homeostasis , A . baumannii enhances MR1 on macrophages and fibroblasts , while F . tularensis increases expression on cDC2s . These results demonstrate that microbial tropism dictates which APCs mediate MR1 presentation of metabolites , revealing alternative therapeutic approaches . FAU - Haas , Dominic
SOX9 and RUNX2 are lineage defining transcription factors that drive differentiation of chondrocyte and osteoblast lineages respectively from osteochondral progenitors . In limb development , these progenitors are specified first by SOX9 expression required for mesenchymal stem cell ( MSC ) condensation prior to RUNX2 activation and osteochondral differentiation to chondrocyte and osteoblast lineages . Unlike limb development , the anterior craniofacial skeleton arises from cranial neural crest ( cNCC ) stem cells . To examine the temporal activation of SOX9 and RUNX2 within cNCCs , we utilized a combination of immunofluorescence to detect endogenous proteins and genetic reporters to label SOX9 and RUNX2 expressing cells . We find that RUNX2 is expressed broadly throughout cNCC stem cells of the first branchial arch that will give rise to developing mandibular tissue at a timepoint prior to osteochondral lineage determination . Substantial SOX9 expression is activated subsequently within differentiating chondrocytes . These findings were validated by fluorescent reporters inserted in the 3 ' untranslated regions ( 3 ' UTRs ) of Sox9 and Runx2 . Although the GFP based Runx2 reporter did not delete any 3 ' UTR sequences , homozygous Runx2 ( GFP/GFP ) pups develop postnatal deficiencies in intramembranous and endochondral ossification that correlate with enhanced expression of RUNX2 protein in osteoblasts and hypertrophic chondrocytes . Runx2 ( GFP/GFP ) phenotypes model the human disorder , Metaphyseal Dysplasia with Maxillary Hypoplasia and Brachydactyly ( MDMHB ) , resulting from RUNX2 enhanced activity due to intragenic duplications . Altogether , this reporter model provides a valuable tool for studying RUNX2 function in early cNCC-derived stem cell lineages and highlights the high sensitivity of ossification pathways to RUNX2 dosage . SUMMARY : We have developed a novel mouse model for a human disorder resulting from excessive RUNX2 , a transcription factor required for bone formation . We find that RUNX2 turns on early within facial stem cells in a pattern unique from limb development . Excessive RUNX2 is particularly detrimental to bone growth in juvenile development after birth . FAU - Bikas , Dimitrios V
INTRODUCTION : Langerhans cell histiocytosis ( LCH ) is a rare myeloid neoplasm that can involve nearly any organ , leading to multisystem damage . Nail involvement in LCH is particularly uncommon . Here we report a case of a young boy with multisystem LCH initially presenting with nail changes . CASE PRESENTATION : We described a boy who presented with a 2-year history of asymptomatic changes characterized by onycholysis , subungual hyperkeratosis , and purpuric striae affecting most fingernails and toenails , initially attributed to onychomycosis . Two years later , he developed multisystem involvement affecting the pituitary gland , lungs , skin , liver , and spleen . The patient succumbed shortly after histopathological confirmation via skin biopsy due to massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage secondary to cirrhosis-induced portal hypertension . DISCUSSION : Nail lesions may serve as the initial manifestation of LCH , often preceding other characteristic disease symptoms . This early presentation provides critical diagnostic opportunities for timely intervention . Consideration of LCH , biopsy , and comprehensive evaluation of organ involvement is essential to reduce the rate of misdiagnosis and the potential for unrecognized high-risk disease . CONCLUSION : Nail involvement in LCH , while rare , may serve as an early clinical indicator of multisystem disease .
The ability to reprogram mature , differentiated cells into induced pluripotent stem cells ( iPSCs ) using exogenous pluripotency factors opened up unprecedented opportunities for their application in biomedicine . iPSCs are already successfully used in cell and regenerative therapy , as various drug discovery platforms and for in vitro disease modeling . However , even though already 20 years have passed since their discovery , the production of iPSC-based therapies is still associated with a number of hurdles due to low reprogramming efficiency , the complexity of accurate characterization of the resulting colonies , and the concerns associated with the safety of this approach . However , significant progress in many areas of molecular biology facilitated the production , characterization , and thorough assessment of the safety profile of iPSCs . The number of iPSC-based studies has been steadily increasing in recent years , leading to the accumulation of significant knowledge in this area . In this review , we aimed to provide a comprehensive analysis of methods used for reprogramming and subsequent characterization of iPSCs , discussed barriers towards achieving these goals , and various approaches to improve the efficiency of reprogramming of different cell populations . In addition , we focused on the analysis of iPSC application in preclinical and clinical studies . The accumulated breadth of data helps to draw conclusions about the future of this technology in biomedicine .
BACKGROUND : Dedifferentiated fat ( DFAT ) cells have been used in regenerative medicine due to their multipotent potential . According to the literature , the process of adipocyte dedifferentiation is characterized by liposecretion which results in a fibroblastlike , proliferating cell population , with increased expression of genes related to cell cycle . A number of pathways have been implicated in the process , but the role of the cell cycle in adipocyte dedifferentiation has yet to be investigated . Here we characterize the process of liposecretion , the cellular features of DFAT cells and the role of the cell cycle . METHODS : Primary adipocytes and adipocyte-derived pluripotent cells ( APC ) were isolated from human adipose tissue and mature adipocytes were dedifferentiated in ceiling culture . The intracellular organization of DFAT and APC were compared using transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) , and the changes of intracellular lipid content over time were tracked with Oil Red O . Finally , we tested whether liposecretion is a cell cycle-dependent phenomenon by cultivating mature adipocytes in ceiling culture with or without four different inhibitors of the cell cycle ( AraC , Irinotecan , Vincristine and RO-3306 ) . RESULTS : DFAT cells were enriched in intracellular lipids , which are stored in small lipid droplets . In addition , liposecretion , which characterizes mature adipocyte dedifferentiation , is characterized by the rapid secretion of a large lipid droplet that is coated by a membrane . This phenomenon seems to be hindered by the presence of cyclin dependent kinase 1 ( CDK1 ) inhibitor RO- CONCLUSION : Both human adipose tissue depots undergo dedifferentiation in vitro , but visceral adipose tissue DFAT cells retain more lipids than subcutaneous-derived DFAT cells . Liposecretion is characterized by the rapid ejection of a membrane-wrapped lipid droplet . This phenomenon is dependent on CDK1 and likely relies on the presence of integrin-mediated cellular adherence .
Hepatocellular carcinoma is the seventh most common kind of cancer worldwide and the second largest cause of cancer-related deaths in males , behind lung cancer . Globally , 866 , 000 people were diagnosed with hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) in 2022 , and nearly 42 , 240 new cases will be identified in 2025 in the United States . Using stem cells obtained from bone marrow can effectively reduce the number of malignant tumor cells through the induction of an epigenetic impact . We obtained bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM-MSCs ) from mice and collected the conditioned medium ( CM ) from cultured cells with 90% confluency . The effect of the CM was identified using both 2D and 3D sphere cultures of wild-type human liver cancer cell line ( HepG2 ) , considering variations in sphere size and percentage . A cell death study was conducted using the cell cytotoxicity ( MTT ) kit , while the quantity of stem cells was determined by immunohistochemistry and gene expression analysis . The effectiveness of our therapy was demonstrated by an in vivo assessment of BM-MSCs through intravenous injection and the currently available anticancer drug cisplatin . In vitro , the combination treatment resulted in a synergetic effect , leading to 74% cell death in both adherent and spherical cultures when treated with 25 microM of cisplatin and 90%CM . In vivo , the histological study indicated a decrease in tumor size and number following treatment with cisplatin and BM-MSCs . The study lasted 18 weeks and revealed that the body weight of mice improved across all treatment groups , with the combination group exhibiting the most significant improvement . Both in vitro and in vivo studies showed the synergetic effect of cisplatin and isolated conditioned medium . Our study aimed to identify more efficient therapeutic approaches utilizing stem cells and existing marketed medications to minimize adverse effects with better efficacy .
BACKGROUND : DR represents a major cause of global vision loss ; however , the genetic basis of functional homotopy , a critical neurobiological metric reflecting interhemispheric functional synchronization , remains largely unexplored . Emerging evidence suggests that DR patients exhibiting aberrant VMHC may potentially associate with distinct transcriptional profiles . These findings could provide novel mechanistic insights into the neuropathological substrates underlying DR-related visual and cognitive dysfunction . METHODS : Resting-state fMRI data from 46 DR patients and 43 HCs were analyzed to compute VMHC for assessing interhemispheric functional connectivity . Spatial transcriptomic-neuroimaging associations were examined using AHBA , revealing genes significantly correlated with VMHC alterations . Subsequent analyses included functional enrichment assessment and PPI network construction . RESULTS : DR patients demonstrated significantly lower VMHC in bilateral LING , PoCG , and PreCG versus controls , indicating impaired interhemispheric connectivity in visual-sensorimotor networks . VMHC variations spatially correlated with 4 , 000 genes ( 2 , 000 positive/negative each ) , enriched in transcriptional regulation , mitochondrial function , synaptic activity ( BP/CC/MF ) , and lipid metabolism/N-glycan biosynthesis ( KEGG ) . PPI network identified hub genes ( ACTB/MRPL9/MRPS6 , positive ; H4C6/NDUFAB1/H3C12 , negative ) regulating mitochondrial dynamics , cytoskeleton , and epigenetics . CONCLUSION : This study represents the first integration of fMRI and transcriptomics to elucidate the genetic determinants underlying VMHC disruption in DR . The findings demonstrate that impaired interhemispheric connectivity in DR involves complex interactions among genes regulating neurovascular , metabolic , and neurodegenerative pathways . These results significantly advance the understanding of neurological manifestations in DR and identify potential therapeutic targets for clinical intervention .
Inflammation is a critical part of innate immune response that is essential for exclusion of harmful stimuli and restoration of tissue homeostasis . Nonetheless , failure to resolve inflammation results in chronic inflammatory conditions , including autoimmune diseases . Conventionally , resolution of inflammation was deemed a passive process ; however , evidence indicates that it entails active , highly regulated molecular and cellular events involving efferocytosis-driven macrophage reprogramming , post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms and the production of specialized pro-resolving mediators ( SPMs ) . These processes collectively restore tissue homeostasis and prevent chronic inflammation . Emerging therapeutic approaches targeting these pathways demonstrate promising results in preclinical studies and clinical trials , enhancing resolution and improving overall disease outcome . This resulted in a paradigm shift from conventional anti-inflammatory strategies to resolution-focused treatment . Yet , challenges remain due to the complexity of resolution mechanisms and tissue-specific differences . This review summarizes current advances in inflammation resolution , emphasizing emerging concepts of resolution pharmacology . By employing endogenous mechanisms facilitating resolution , novel therapeutic applications can effectively manage several chronic inflammatory disorders .
Synchronous neoplasms of the stomach are uncommon . Here we presented an unusual case with coexistence of neuroendocrine tumor and signet ring cell carcinoma in the stomach . Gastroscopic examination of a 66-year-old male patient showed a submucosal tumor-like mass with an ulcer on the surface located in the anterior wall of the lower segment of gastric body , confirmed by subsequent biopsy as a signet ring cell carcinoma . Moreover , we also found a slightly yellowish 6-mm protrusion simulating a polyp located in the lesser curvature of the upper segment of gastric body , and biopsy revealed it was a neuroendocrine tumor . The patient underwent a total gastrectomy with a standard D2 lymph node dissection . Pathohistological results led to the final diagnosis of synchronous neoplasms in the stomach , including a signet ring cell carcinoma and a neuroendocrine tumor .
Recent advances in the management of transplant-associated thrombotic microangiopathy ( TA-TMA ) include the harmonization of diagnostic criteria and the identification of high-risk disease features . Individual hematologic and complement biomarkers show moderate specificity when used alone in the detection of TA-TMA in hematopoietic stem cell transplant ( HSCT ) recipients , but the identification of endothelial injury due to microangiopathic process can be enhanced using longitudinal monitoring of biomarkers and clinical features . An increase in the sC5b-9 level reflects terminal complement activation , a hallmark of TA-TMA pathogenesis that guides therapeutic interventions . In addition , distinguishing physiologic from pathologic complement activation is essential for timely diagnosis of the disease and selection of targeted interventions . Eculizumab therapy , a biomarker-guided C5 blocker , significantly improves clinical outcomes in severe TA-TMA ; however , there is a lack of knowledge on how to select second-line complement inhibitors or combination therapies for cases with a suboptimal response to eculizumab . This article proposes practical approaches to increasing the specificity and attributability of TA-TMA diagnostic biomarkers by integrating clinically available supportive diagnostic tests and provides insights into potential biomarkers for currently available novel complement inhibitors . These findings help ensure timely diagnosis , prevent irreversible organ injury , and improve outcomes in HSCT recipients with TA-TMA .
Cytotoxic-associated gene A ( CagA ) is a key virulence factor of Helicobacter pylori , associated with gastric ulcers and stomach cancer . The bacterium employs a Cag-type IV secretion system for translocation of CagA into the host cells . This study investigates the impact of CagA antibodies on CagA translocation into gastric epithelial cells in vitro . Our findings reveal that CagA synthesis and translocation across bacterial membranes is a continuous process initiated upon host-cell contact . Notably , the treatment of Helicobacter pylori with CagA-specific antibodies significantly inhibited the translocation of CagA into host cells during infection . These results suggest that the CagA antibody may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy to combat Helicobacter pylori pathogenesis . A similar result was obtained when CagT antibody was used under the same conditions . Notably , the CagT antibody exhibited a more pronounced pathoblocking effect , likely due to its accessibility on the bacterial surface as a structural component of Cag-T4SS . Taken together , this study provides insights into the therapeutic potential of CagA and CagT antibodies to mitigate Helicobacter pylori infection , while also advancing our understanding of the mechanisms involved in CagA translocation across the bacterial membranes to the host cell . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1007/s13205-025-04343-
INTRODUCTION : Sertoli-Leydig cell tumors ( SLCTs ) are rare ovarian neoplasms , accounting for less than 2% of all primary ovarian tumors . Among these , pure Sertoli cell tumors ( SCTs ) are exceptionally rare , comprising only 4% of Sertoli-stromal tumors . While SCTs are more commonly observed in young women , they can occur across all age groups . They are often associated with estrogen or progesterone production , whereas testosterone production is extremely uncommon . CASE REPORT : A 70-year-old postmenopausal woman with a history of hysterectomy 20 years ago presented with complaints of a vaginal bulge and reduced urine output for 4-5 months . She had a prior diagnosis of periampullary carcinoma ( pT1aN0 ) , treated with surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy using gemcitabine . Clinical examination revealed a fair general condition and unremarkable abdominal findings . Per speculum examination showed vault prolapse with third-degree cystocele and minimal rectocele but no signs of stress urinary incontinence . The patient underwent abdominal sacrocolpopexy for vault prolapse . During surgery , both atrophic ovaries and fallopian tubes were identified and removed . Histopathological examination confirmed a Stage Ia pure SCT in the right ovary , with no malignancy in the left ovary or fallopian tubes . CONCLUSION : The incidental discovery of a pure SCT in an atrophic ovary during pelvic surgery in a postmenopausal woman is exceedingly rare . This case highlights the importance of meticulous intraoperative inspection and histopathological evaluation , even in asymptomatic atrophic ovaries . FAU - Kumar , Naina
Porcupine ( PORCN ) is a membrane-bound protein of the endoplasmic reticulum , which modifies Wnt proteins by adding palmitoleic acid . This modification is essential for Wnt ligand secretion . Patients with mutated PORCN display various skeletal abnormalities likely stemming from disrupted Wnt signaling pathways during the chondrocyte differentiation . To uncover the mechanism of PORCN action during chondrogenesis , we used 2 different PORCN inhibitors , C59 and LGK974 , in several model systems , including micromasses , 3D cell cultures , long bone tissue cultures , and zebrafish animal model . PORCN inhibitors enhanced cartilaginous extracellular matrix ( ECM ) production and accelerated chondrocyte differentiation , which resulted in the earlier induction of cellular hypertrophy as well as cartilaginous mass expansion in micromass cultures and cartilaginous organoids . In addition , both PORCN inhibitors expanded the hypertrophic zone and reduced the proliferative zone in the growth plate . This led to a significant increase in cartilaginous tissue and ultimately resulted in the elongation of tibias in the mouse organ cultures . Also , LGK974 treatment of Danio rerio embryos induced expansion of craniofacial cartilage width together with the shortening of the body axis , which was consistent with a phenomenon occurring upon inhibition of non-canonical Wnt signaling . By combining PORCN inhibition with exogenous Wnt proteins activating either canonical/beta-catenin ( WNT3a ) or non-canonical ( WNT5a ) signaling , we propose that the key mechanism mediating pro-chondrogenic effects of PORCN inhibition is the removal of canonical ligands that prevent chondrocyte differentiation . In summary , our results provide evidence of the distinct role of PORCN in both the early and late stages of cartilage development . Further , our data demonstrate that PORCN inhibitors can be used in the experimental and clinical strategies that need to trigger chondrocyte differentiation and/or cartilage outgrowth .
Endophytic fungi belonging to the Aspergillus genus have received substantial attention due to their notable secondary metabolic potential . In this study , chemical investigations using LC-MS/MS-based molecular networking on the endophytic fungus Aspergillus japonicus TE-739D led to the discovery of two new cyclohexadepsipeptides , namely japonamides C and D , along with three known cyclodipeptides ( 3-5 ) . Their structures , including the absolute configurations of the amino acid residues , were elucidated through spectroscopic data analysis and an optimized Marfey ' s method . The newly discovered compounds , japonamides C and D , were screened for broad-spectrum cell proliferation inhibitory activity against 20 different human cell lines . The results indicated that both compounds displayed broad-spectrum antiproliferative activity against MKN-45 , HCT116 , TE-1 , 5 , 637 , CAL-62 , and A-637 cells , with inhibition rates ranging from 0 to 3% . Moreover , the antibacterial activity of compounds 1-5 against two Gram-positive bacteria and two Gram-negative bacteria was also evaluated .
Allograft dysfunction is a major limitation of survival in organ transplant recipients including those who have received lung transplantation . Early detection of allograft dysfunction is thus crucial to improve outcomes in these patients . However , there are several causes of allograft dysfunction with allograft infection and rejection being the two important causes . It is often difficult to distinguish between those causes as the presentation can be similar . Allograft rejection , especially antibody-mediated rejection ( AMR ) and chronic lung allograft dysfunction ( CLAD ) are often identified too late where progression has already occurred . Biomarkers like anti-HLA antibodies including donor-specific antibodies ( DSA ) , donor-derived cell-free DNA ( dd-cfDNA ) , immune cell function ( ICF ) assays and next-generation sequencing for microorganisms allow for early identification of allograft dysfunction as well as differentiate rejection from other processes such as infection . This in turn allows for early intervention and , ideally , improved long-term allograft outcomes . Greater evidence exists for these biomarkers in other solid organ transplantations including kidney and heart transplantation , but application to lung transplant recipients is increasing and seems equally promising . In this review , we evaluate existing evidence for using these biomarkers and share our center practice in utilizing a combination of these biomarkers post-transplantation to assess for allograft dysfunction .
BACKGROUND : The present study aims to investigate whether mannitol facilitates central nervous system ( CNS ) entry of vancomycin and alleviates methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) intracranial infection . METHODS : Blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) permeability was assessed by measuring the concentration of sodium fluorescein ( NaF ) in the brain tissues of rats and fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran ( FITC-dextran ) in a single-cell layer model . Neutrophil infiltration in the brain tissue , inflammatory cytokine levels in the serum , neurological function , and 7-day survival rates were used to evaluate therapeutic effects of mannitol and vancomycin in MRSA-infected rats . Syndecan-1 and filamentous actin ( F-actin ) levels were measured , and the relationship between F-actin and the endothelial glycocalyx layer ( EGL ) was explored via the depolymerization agent cytochalasin D and the polymerization agent jasplakinolide . RESULTS : Following mannitol administration , the NaF and vancomycin concentrations in the brain tissue increased rapidly within 5 min and remained stable for 30 min , indicating that mannitol increased BBB permeability for 30 min . In vitro , mannitol treatment led to significantly greater FITC-dextran permeation through a single-cell layer compared to controls . In the MRSA intracranial infection model , rats treated with mannitol and vancomycin simultaneously presented less inflammation , improved neurological function , and increased 7-day survival rate compared to rats treated with vancomycin and mannitol at 10-hour intervals . Further experiments revealed that mannitol decreased the expression of syndecan-1 in brain tissues , which was confirmed by in vitro experiments showing that mannitol significantly decreased syndecan-1 via F-actin depolymerization . CONCLUSION : Mannitol may enhance the therapeutic efficacy of vancomycin against intracranial MRSA infection by decreasing the endothelial glycocalyx of the BBB via F-actin depolymerization .
Primary thyroid lymphoma is a rare hematologic malignancy of the thyroid gland , accounting for approximately 5% of all malignant thyroid tumors . The most common pathological type is B-cell-derived non-Hodgkin ' s lymphoma , mainly diffuse large B-cell lymphoma , followed by mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma and mixed types . The clinical and radiographic characteristics of primary thyroid lymphoma are non-specific , often leading to misdiagnosis as thyroiditis and a delay in treatment . A 60-year-old woman was referred to our hospital with neck swelling that had persisted for a week . Histopathological findings of a thyroid biopsy revealed mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma . Bone marrow examination revealed atypical lymphocytes on myelograms . [F]FDG PET/CT images showed increased [F]FDG uptake in both lobes of the thyroid gland and the cervical lymph nodes . The patient was diagnosed with stage IV primary thyroid mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma . The patient subsequently received four cycles of R-CEOP chemotherapy and remained under follow-up . Due to the rarity of this case , we conducted a systematic literature review to better understand the disease and improve timely diagnosis and treatment .
INTRODUCTION : Pancreatic cancer is characterized by its aggressive nature and poor prognosis , ranking among the most lethal malignancies . The tumor microenvironment , particularly the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) , plays a crucial role in cancer progression . This study investigated the relationship between hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha ( HIF-1alpha ) and transforming growth factor-beta1 ( TGF-beta1 ) in regulating ECM protein expression in pancreatic cancer . METHODS : PANC-1 cells were cultured under both normoxic and hypoxic conditions . Pharmacological inhibition of HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1 , as well as TGF-beta1 stimulation , were employed to evaluate ECM protein expression . HIF-1alpha knockdown experiments and co-immunoprecipitation were performed to assess molecular interactions . Clinical specimens were analyzed for HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1 expression . RESULTS : HIF-1alpha was found to modulate ECM protein expression through the TGF-beta1/Smad signaling pathway . Pharmacological inhibition of either HIF-1alpha or TGF-beta1 significantly decreased the expression of ECM proteins , while TGF-beta1 stimulation enhanced their production . HIF-1alpha knockdown abolished TGF-beta1-induced ECM protein expression , indicating that HIF-1alpha is essential for TGF-beta1-mediated ECM regulation . Co-immunoprecipitation experiments revealed a physical interaction between HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta Clinical specimens showed significantly elevated expression of both HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1 in pancreatic cancer tissues compared to adjacent normal tissues , correlating with advanced disease stages . DISCUSSION : These findings elucidate a novel mechanism where HIF-1alpha and TGF-beta1 cooperatively regulate ECM production in pancreatic cancer , providing potential therapeutic targets for intervention .
Chronic myeloid leukemia is one of the onco-hematologic diseases in which the identification of disease markers and therapeutic advances have been particularly impactful . Despite this , significant gaps remain in our understanding of disease pathogenesis , progression , mechanisms of immune escape , and resistance to standard therapies . Recently , advances in technology and biological knowledge have drawn attention to several promising areas of research . Among these , leukemic stem cells , miRNAs , extracellular vesicles , and additional BCR : : ABL1 mutations , with particular reference to the ASXL1 gene , have been the most extensively investigated . In this review we summarized and critically commented the main findings on these key topics over the past 5 years , evaluating their potential impact on patient management and their role in the development of new therapeutic strategies .
PURPOSE : To evaluate the efficacy and safety of a multimodal therapeutic approach involving transarterial chemoembolization ( TACE ) in conjunction with helical iodine-125 ( I-125 ) seed implant , lenvatinib , and programmed cell death-1 ( PD-1 ) inhibitors for hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) complicated by main portal vein tumor thrombus ( MPVTT ) . MATERIAL AND METHODS : HCC patients with MPVTT treated with TACE coupled with helical I-125 implant , lenvatinib , PD-1 inhibitors between September 2019 and August 2022 were retrospectively analyzed , and constituted as study group . Those treated with TACE , helical I-125 seed implant , and sorafenib between December 2016 and August 2020 served as the historical control group . All patients received sorafenib or lenvatinib combined with PD-1 inhibitors within 3-7 days after TACE and helical I-125 seed implantation . The longest follow-up period for all patients in both groups was 36 months from the date of helical I-125 seed implantation . Primary outcome was overall survival time ( OS ) , and secondary outcomes were progression free survival time ( PFS ) , objective response rate ( ORR ) , and disease control rate ( DCR ) . The Cox proportional hazards regression model was employed to identify independent prognostic factors influencing OS and PFS . The value P < 05 was deemed statistically significant . RESULTS : A total of 53 patients were enrolled , with 22 assigned to the study group and 31 to the control group . The study group exhibited superior overall ORR ( 5% vs . 8% , P = 033 ) and overall DCR ( 3% vs . 5% , P = 319 ) . Notably , the ORR and DCR of MPVTT were higher in the study group ( 4% vs . 6% , P = 008 ; and 5% vs . 9% , P = 382 , respectively ) . Median OS ( 1 +/- 1 months vs . 2 +/- 8 months , P = 008 ) and PFS ( 6 +/- 0 months vs . 1 +/- 6 months , P = 014 ) were prolonged in the study group . The maximal tumor size , alpha fetoprotein level , and treatment modality were independent predictors for OS , while the maximal tumor size and treatment modality were independent determinants for PFS . Study group showed frequent hypothyroidism and reactive cutaneouscapillary ( P < 01 ) , with comparable grade 3/4 adverse events between groups . CONCLUSIONS : The integration of the helical I-125 seed implant with TACE , lenvatinib , and PD-1 inhibitors is the safe and efficacious approach in the management of HCC complicated by MPVTT .
Elevated serum levels of alpha-fetoprotein ( AFP ) are commonly associated with hepatocellular carcinoma or germ cell tumors . AFP-producing urothelial carcinoma of the bladder is very rare . We report a case of bladder urothelial carcinoma with significantly elevated AFP levels . A 60-year-old man was admitted for gross hematuria . Computed tomography urography revealed multiple large tumors of the bladder . The serum level of AFP was up to 2 , 329 ng/ml . No hepatic tumors or testicular tumors were detected . Although the hepatitis B surface antigen test was positive , the liver function test was normal . The patient underwent robotic-assisted laparoscopic radical cystectomy with ileal conduit urinary diversion . Postoperative pathology revealed high-grade muscle invasive bladder urothelial carcinoma and immunohistochemical staining of the tumor cells showed strong AFP positivity . After surgery , the patient ' s serum AFP levels dropped sharply and decreased to normal 4 weeks after the operation . In conclusion , AFP-producing bladder urothelial carcinoma is rare , and the mechanism and pathophysiology remain unclear and require further investigation .
Rosai-Dorfman disease ( RDD ) has traditionally been viewed as a reactive histiocytic disorder , defined by its unique clinical features and immunophenotype . However , recent genetic studies suggest a more complex molecular landscape , challenging the notion of RDD as solely reactive and hinting at a possible neoplastic component . Mutations in MAPK/ERK pathway genes , such as KRAS and MAP2K1 , have been observed in up to 33% of cases . Additional genetic alterations in cell cycle regulation , DNA repair , and other processes , along with low-frequency BRAF mutations , further emphasize this complexity . To better understand the molecular basis of RDD and enhance diagnostic precision , we conducted whole exome sequencing ( WES ) on seven Saudi patients with RDD , comparing their genetic profiles with existing literature . While no kinase driver mutations were detected , our analysis revealed thirteen distinct mutations . Recurrent mutations were observed in CD207 and TDG , each found in six patients . CD207 is linked to antigen processing , while TDG is associated with DNA repair . MUC4 and PDS5A mutations , related to cell cycle regulation , were each identified in three patients . DNMT3A mutation , affecting DNA methylation , was found in two patients . Single mutations were observed in BRCA1 , LATS2 , ATM , USP35 , and CIC , associated with DNA repair , the ubiquitin proteasome pathway , and transcriptional regulation respectively . These findings offer insights into the genetic makeup of RDD , revealing candidate genes and expanding our understanding of the disease ' s molecular complexities . By uncovering these genetic markers , this study contributes to the ongoing efforts to develop more accurate diagnostic tools and refine the classification of RDD , paving the way for improved patient care and disease management .
PURPOSE : Radioresistant and immunosuppressive tumors , such as glioblastoma multiforme ( GBM ) , remain a challenge , as current clinical approaches-surgical resection and chemoradiation-do not yet provide effective treatment . Immunotherapy ( IT ) has emerged as a powerful tool in cancer ; however , phase III clinical trials in GBM have yielded unsuccessful results , likely due to its critical dependence on preexisting antitumor immunity . Given its immunomodulatory potential , radiotherapy ( RT ) could serve as a tool to induce tumor inflammation and enhance responsiveness to IT . However , the optimal radiation configuration required to achieve the critical level of tumor inflammation for IT success remains elusive . This study assessed the most effective dose fractionation scheme for maximizing immune cell infiltration into tumors . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Two orthotopic rat glioma models with differing vascularization and immunogenicity were irradiated with three dose fractionation schemes . Tumor immune cell populations were analyzed by flow cytometry . RESULTS : A single high dose ( 25 Gy ) or extreme hypofractionation is required to elicit a significant immune infiltration in tumors . CONCLUSIONS : Using RT as an immune primer in GBM would require very high and toxic doses with conventional RT methods . While 25 Gy is used in conventional stereotactic radiosurgery , such a high dose is typically limited to small brain volumes . Novel approaches , such as FLASH-RT or minibeam RT , offer alternatives to mitigate toxicity while achieving the required doses .
BACKGROUND : Cervical squamous cell carcinoma ( CESC ) constitutes a substantial global health burden , especially in resource-limited regions . The identification of reliable biomarkers is critical for developing a clinically applicable nomogram to predict survival outcomes and evaluate immune infiltration in CESC patients . METHODS : This study integrated RNA-seq data from GEO and TCGA databases to identify key genes associated with CESC through differential expression analysis and machine learning techniques . Prognostic models were constructed and validated , with additional analyses exploring immune cell infiltration and gene function via GSEA and clinical correlation . Finally , key genes were validated via qRT-PCR in CESC tissues . RESULTS : A total of 112 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified through differential analysis of the GEO and TCGA datasets . EFNA1 , CXCL8 , and PPP1R14A emerged as prognostic biomarkers for CESC , showing significant associations with survival , tumor stage , and immune infiltration . EFNA1 may drive tumor progression via the MAPK signaling pathway , CXCL8 could influence immune evasion through NOD-like receptor signaling , and PPP1R14A may contribute to tumor invasion by modulating extracellular matrix remodeling . A nomogram integrating these genes demonstrated high predictive accuracy for overall survival ( AUC>75 ) and calibration plots . Decision curve analysis ( DCA ) was performed to assess the nomogram ' s clinical utility and net benefit for application in clinical practice . Additionally , it was validated by qRT-PCR , showing elevated expression in tumors versus normal tissues ( P<05 ) . CONCLUSION : EFNA1 , CXCL8 , and PPP1R14A are promising biomarkers for CESC prognosis and immune regulation . The nomogram model provides a practical tool for personalized survival prediction , enhancing clinical decision-making for immunotherapy and risk stratification .
INTRODUCTION : The large , randomised , controlled NHS-Galleri trial ( NCT05611632 ) is assessing the clinical utility of a multi-cancer early detection ( MCED ) test for asymptomatic cancer screening in England . We describe how we enabled the efficient referral of trial participants into existing National Health Service ( NHS ) urgent suspected cancer pathways for diagnostic investigations . METHODS/RESULTS : Participants were enrolled across eight of the 21 Cancer Alliance regions in England , served by 56 Hospital Trusts . We used the existing NHS e-Referral Service ( e-RS ) and a new e-referral form to enable referrals from the trial into any participating Trust , and to standardise information provided with trial participant referrals . Referrals were made by trial nurses directly into secondary care , minimising any additional burden on primary care . At most Trusts , a designated Trust-based referral coordinator triaged referrals and referred participants into the most appropriate local pathway , selected based on the tissue type or organ associated with the cancer signal ( cancer signal origin ; CSO ) . At other Trusts , trial nurses referred participants into the appropriate pathway . Guidance mapping predicted CSO ( s ) to NHS pathways was provided by the trial team to help clinicians understand trial referrals . The trial team and Trust referral coordinators were responsible for central and Trust-level safety netting measures , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : To our knowledge , the NHS-Galleri trial has established the first model for the standardised clinical referral of asymptomatic individuals from a trial into NHS standard-of-care cancer pathways . We hope insights from our work could help accelerate screening trial conduct in the UK , and support MCED population screening programme implementation in future .
PURPOSE : The goal of this paper is to compare the effectiveness of three deep learning models ( 2D , 3D , and 5D ) , three radiomics models ( INTRA , Peri2mm , and Fusion2mm ) , and a combined model in predicting the spread through air spaces ( STAS ) in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) to identify the optimal model for clinical surgery planning . METHODS : We included 480 patients who underwent surgery at four centers between January 2019 and August 2024 , dividing them into a training cohort , an internal test cohort , and an external validation cohort . We extracted deep learning features using the ResNet50 algorithm . Least absolute shrinkage selection operator ( Lasso ) and spearman rank correlation were utilized to choose features . Extreme Gradient Boosting ( XGboost ) was used to execute deep learning and radiomics . Then , a combination model was developed , integrating both sources of data . RESULT : The combined model showed outstanding performance , with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC ) of 927 ( 95% CI 870 - 984 ) in the test set and 867 ( 95% CI 819 - 915 ) in the validation set . This model significantly distinguished between high-risk and low-risk patients and demonstrated significant advantages in clinical application . CONCLUSION : The combined model is adequate for preoperative prediction of STAS in patients with stage T1 NSCLC , outperforming the other six models in predicting STAS risk .
Emerging evidence underscores gut microbiota ' s role in modulating lung cancer immunotherapy outcomes , though specific impacts on immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) and associated adverse events ( AEs ) require further clarity . This review synthesizes findings from 15 studies examining gut microbiota-ICI interactions in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , alongside studies investigating antibiotics , proton pump inhibitors ( PPIs ) , probiotics , and diet as modulating factors . Results indicate that Actinobacteria , Bacteroides , and Verrucomicrobiota correlate with positive ICI responses , while Bacillota shows variable associations ; notably , Bacillota-enriched patients had fewer immunotherapy-related AEs . The administration of antibiotics and PPIs within a month before ICIs was linked to diminished efficacy , whereas probiotics correlated with enhanced outcomes . Plant-based diets are also aligned with dietary patterns supportive of ICIs . These findings suggest that analyzing gut microbiota composition could improve the ability to predict NSCLC patient responses to ICIs . Additionally , judicious use of antibiotics , PPIs , probiotics , and dietary adjustments may optimize immunotherapy outcomes and mitigate adverse effects .
BACKGROUND : RNA N -methyladenosine ( mA ) readers mediate cancer progression . However , the role of eiptranscriptomic modifications such as mA in the regulation of TNBC progression is unclear . METHODS : High-throughput library screening identifies the key mA regulator YTHDF3 in TNBC . Cell and animal experiments were used to identify that YTHDF3 promoted TNBC tumorigenesis to enhance Centromere protein I ( CENPI ) translation via mA modification . RESULTS : We showed that the N -methyladenosine ( mA ) reader YTHDF3 was an independent risk factor in TNBC and was associated with poor prognosis of patients . Notedly , overexpression YTHDF3 promoted TNBC tumorigenesis in an mA modification , while TNBC knockdown markedly inhibited proliferation and migratory ability of tumor cells in vitro and in vivo . Mechanistically , Mechanistically , YTHDF3 interacted with Centromere protein I ( CENPI ) mRNAs to prolong stability of mA-modified RNA . CONCLUSION : Our findings indicated that mA reader YTHDF3 contributed to tumorigenesis and poor prognosis , providing a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for TNBC .
BACKGROUND : Whole blood transfusion ( WBT ) is associated with improved hemostasis and possibly mortality in patients with hemorrhagic shock after injury but there are no studies in patients with isolated severe traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) . The objective of this investigation was to compare outcomes of balanced component therapy ( BCT ) versus WBT in patients with an isolated severe TBI . METHODS : Adult patients ( >/=18 years ) registered in the Trauma Quality Improvement Program ( 2016-2019 ) who suffered a blunt isolated severe TBI ( head Abbreviated Injury Score >/=3 in the head and </=1 in the remaining body regions ) and who received a BCT ( 1-2 : 1 packed red blood cell ( PRBC ) : fresh frozen plasma and 1-2 : 1 PRBC : platelets ) or WBT were eligible for inclusion . Patients were matched , based on the transfusion received , using propensity score matching . The primary outcome of interest was in-hospital mortality . RESULTS : A total of 217 patients received either WBT ( n=82 ) or BCT ( n=135 ) . After propensity score matching , 50 matched pairs were analyzed . The rate of in-hospital mortality was significantly lower in the WBT compared with BCT group ( 1% vs 7% , p=025 ) corresponding to a relative risk ( RR ) reduction of 35% in in-hospital mortality ( RR ( CI 95% ) : 65 ( 43 to 97 ) ) . However , in subgroup analyses comparing those who were managed surgically and conservatively , this association only remained significant among patients who underwent neurosurgical intervention . CONCLUSIONS : WBT in patients with severe isolated TBI is associated with better survival compared with BCT in patients who require neurosurgical intervention . Further investigation into this finding using an appropriately powered , prospective study design is warranted . LEVEL OF EVIDENCE : Level III , therapeutic .
Mammalian orthoreoviruses ( MRVs ) have a wide geographic distribution worldwide and have been detected from humans and a variety of animal species . This study represents the first isolation of MRV from sheep rectal swabs in China , with analyses of its molecular and pathogenicity characteristics . MRV-positive samples were inoculated into Madin-Darby bovine kidney ( MDBK ) cells , resulting in stable cytopathic effects ( CPEs ) after three generations of blind passage . Two isolates were isolated and confirmed as MRV , named MRV-XJ23 and MRV-sheep/SY13 , through reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction ( RT-PCR ) , transmission electron microscopy , and indirect immunofluorescence assay ( IFA ) . The viruses exhibited broad cellular tropism . Whole-genome sequences were obtained and subjected to homology and evolutionary analyses , revealing that MRV-XJ23 and MRV-sheep/SY13 belong to the MRV-1 serotype . Phylogenetic analyses demonstrated that MRV-XJ23 is a reassortant virus containing gene segments from three MRVs that infected humans , bovines , and bats , with nucleotide homology exceeding 56% . The gene segments of MRV-sheep/SY13 were derived from five strains-Osaka2005 , BatMRV-2/SNU1/Korea/2021 , T1/human/Netherlands/1/84 , IND/MZ/3013814/reo , and B/03-with nucleotide homology exceeding 47% . Animal experiments demonstrated that MRV-sheep/SY13 infection induced significant pathological changes in the respiratory and digestive tracts of mice . In sheep , MRV-sheep/SY13 caused respiratory infections , but no obvious lesion was observed from the digestive tract . This study expands our understanding of the MRV host range , reveals the potential public health risk of MRV transmission across species and zoonotic transmission , and underscores the necessity of further studies on epidemiology , reassortment patterns , and pathogenicity of MRV in sheep and domestic animals .
INTRODUCTION : Reports on the performance of glomerular hematuria for the diagnosis of glomerulonephritis ( GN ) show heterogeneity in the results and used urological pathologies as controls . We hypothesized that identification of urinary acanthocytes ( uACANTHO ) and/or urinary red blood cell casts ( uRBCCs ) by comprehensive microscopic examination of the urinary sediment ( uMICRO ) can differentiate glomerular disease from non-glomerular renal pathology . METHODS : Records of patients seen for consultation for acute kidney injury or proteinuria/hematuria who had specimens examined by uMICRO and a kidney biopsy performed within 2 weeks of uMICRO were extracted . We assessed the sensitivity ( SENS ) , specificity ( SPEC ) , and positive and negative predictive value ( PPV , NPV ) of uACANTHO and/or uRBCC for the diagnosis of biopsy-proven GN or for any glomerulopathy ( GP ) . RESULTS : Of 915 patients who completed uMICRO , 276 patients were included ( mean age 53 , 54% women ) . Median serum creatinine was 5 mg/dL . A total of 219 ( 79% ) were categorized as GP , whereas 57 ( 21% ) had non-GP diagnosis ( e . g . , tubular ) . Within the GP category , 114 ( 41% ) had GN ( e . g . , IgA nephropathy , pauci-immune GN ) , whereas 105 ( 38% ) had non-GN GP ( e . g . , podocytopathies ) . The SENS , SPEC , PPV , and NPV of uACANTHO for diagnosing GN were 68% , 86% , 78% , and 79% , respectively , whereas for GP SENS , SPEC , PPV , and NPV were 45% , 100% , 100% , and 32% , respectively . For GN , combining uACANTHO and/or uRBCC resulted in improvement of the SENS , SPEC , PPV , and NPV to 75% , 86% , 79% , and 83% , respectively . Either uACANTHO or uRBCC were found in 47/51 ( 92% ) cases of crescentic/necrotizing GN . CONCLUSION : Identification of glomerular hematuria by uMICRO aids in the diagnosis of GN . Combining the identification of uACANTHO and uRBCC enhances the diagnostic yield of uMICRO for GN and offers good NPV for crescentic/necrotizing GN . uACANTHO are pathognomonic for GP .
INTRODUCTION : Primary squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) of the small intestine is an exceptionally rare malignancy , with limited cases reported in the literature . The rarity of this condition , combined with nonspecific clinical manifestations , poses significant diagnostic and therapeutic challenges . CASE PRESENTATION : We report the case of a 47-year-old woman who presented with a 2-month history of left lower abdominal pain and discomfort . Imaging studies , including enhanced abdominal CT and PET-CT , revealed a suspicious mass in the jejunum . Comprehensive diagnostic evaluations excluded metastatic origins , and a diagnosis of primary small intestinal SCC was confirmed by histopathology and immunohistochemistry . The patient underwent radical surgical resection , which revealed a poorly differentiated SCC invading the serosa and regional lymph nodes . Postoperative management included infection prevention and fluid rehydration , with recommendations for adjuvant chemotherapy and immunotherapy based on multidisciplinary consultation . Despite the advanced disease stage , the patient recovered well post-surgery and is undergoing regular follow-up . CONCLUSION : This case underscores the importance of thorough diagnostic evaluation to distinguish primary SCC from metastatic lesions . Early surgical intervention is critical for improving prognosis of this rare malignancy . The findings contribute to the limited knowledge of the primary SCC of the small intestine and emphasize the need for further research to guide optimal management strategies .
Fetal hydrops can stem from immune or nonimmune causes . Immune causes often involve red cell alloimmunization , whereas nonimmune causes encompass structural malformations , aneuploidy , infections , lymphatic system disorders , genetic syndromes , and more . In a rare and complex case , we encountered a fetal hydrops presentation characterized by blended phenotypes , indicating both a genetic and an underlying immune etiology . The mother , Rhesus negative , presented with a history of adverse obstetric events . At 21 weeks , the current fetus was diagnosed with hydrops . Maternal blood tests unveiled Rhesus alloimmunization , featuring a positive indirect Coombs test at a 1 : 512 dilution and the presence of anti-D , anti-C , and anti-E antibodies . Fetal blood sampling revealed an O-positive blood group with a hemoglobin level of 10 gm/dL . Despite administering intrauterine transfusion to the fetus , there was no improvement ; instead , the fetal hydrops worsened , accompanied by the emergence of nuchal and axillary masses . Exome sequencing of fetal DNA revealed the fetus was homozygous for a pathogenic variant in the SERPINA11 gene and compound heterozygous for a pathogenic variant in the PIEZO1 gene . Furthermore , the combination of pathogenic variants in SERPINA11 and PIEZO1 genes has not been described in cases of fetal hydrops before . This case posed significant challenges in management due to the concurrent presence of both immune and nonimmune hydrops . We describe some of the diagnostic challenges faced in clinical management of this case .
Cerebral amyloid angiopathy ( CAA ) is a cerebral small vessel disease in which amyloid-beta accumulates in vessel walls . CAA is a leading cause of symptomatic lobar intracerebral haemorrhage and an important contributor to age-related cognitive decline . Recent work has suggested that vascular dysfunction may precede symptomatic stages of CAA , and that spontaneous slow oscillations in arteriolar diameter ( termed vasomotion ) , important for amyloid-beta clearance , may be impaired in CAA . To systematically study the progression of vascular dysfunction in CAA , we used the APP23 mouse model of amyloidosis , which is known to develop spontaneous cerebral microbleeds mimicking human CAA . Using in vivo 2-photon microscopy , we longitudinally imaged unanesthetized APP23 transgenic mice and wildtype ( WT ) littermates from 7 to 14 months of age , tracking amyloid-beta accumulation and vasomotion in individual pial arterioles over time . MRI was used in separate groups of 12- , 18- and 24-month-old APP23 transgenic mice and WT littermates to detect microbleeds and to assess cerebral blood flow ( CBF ) and cerebrovascular reactivity ( CVR ) with pseudo-continuous arterial spin labelling . We observed a significant decline in vasomotion with age in APP23 mice , while vasomotion remained unchanged in WT mice with age . This decline corresponded in timing to initial vascular amyloid-beta deposition ( approximately 8-10 months of age ) , although it was more strongly correlated with age than with vascular amyloid-beta burden in individual arterioles . Declines in vasomotion preceded the development of MRI-visible microbleeds and the loss of smooth muscle actin in arterioles , both of which were observed in the majority of APP23 mice by 18 months of age . Additionally , CBF and evoked CVR were intact in APP23 mice at 12 months of age , but significantly lower in APP23 mice by 24 months of age . Our findings suggest that a decline in spontaneous vasomotion is an early , potentially pre-symptomatic , manifestation of CAA and vascular dysfunction , and a possible future treatment target .
Structurally constrained cyclic beta-amino acids are attractive building blocks for peptide drugs because they induce unique and stable conformations . Introduction of ( 1S , 2S ) -2-aminocyclopentanecarboxylic acid [ ( 1S , 2S ) -2-ACPC] into peptides stabilizes helical conformations , so improving proteolytic stability and cell membrane permeability . We report on the ribosomal synthesis of a helical peptide library incorporating ( 1S , 2S ) -2-ACPC at every third position and its application for the discovery of SARS-CoV-2 main protease ( M ( pro ) ) inhibitors . We identified two peptide sequences containing multiple ( 1S , 2S ) -2-ACPC residues , which exhibit helical conformations and superior proteolytic stability compared with their alpha-Ala or beta-Ala counterparts . Studies using the chloroalkane cell-penetration assay showed that their cell permeability values ( CP ) are comparable with or even slightly better than that of the cell-penetrating nona-arginine ( R9 ) peptide . The new approach is thus a highly efficient method that combines a helical peptide library containing structurally constrained cyclic beta-amino acids with the classical RaPID discovery method , enabling de novo discovery of proteolytically stable and cell-penetrating bioactive peptides that target intracellular proteins .
Parainfluenza viruses enter host cells by fusing their envelope with the cell membrane . In this process mediated by the fusion glycoprotein , the fusion peptide plays an essential role in membrane binding and triggering fusion . Previously , we demonstrated that the parainfluenza fusion peptide ( PIFP ) oligomerizes into porelike structures within the membrane , leading to membrane perturbations , fusion , and leakage . Additionally , we identified two key amino acid residues in the PIFP , F103 and Q120 , which are important in inducing lipid tail protrusion and maintaining peptide-peptide interactions , respectively . Here , we seek to elucidate the role of these two residues in the PIFP function by studying the impact of F103A and Q120A substitutions on peptide activity . We compared the substituted peptides with the native peptide using biophysical experiments and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations . Our results show that the F103A substitution significantly impairs PIFP ' s interaction with the membrane and its ability to induce lipid mixing and membrane leakage in experimental assays . Moreover , a decrease in lipid perturbation and water flux through the membrane was observed in the MD simulations . In contrast , the Q120A substitution appears to have minimal impact on membrane interaction and PIFP-induced membrane leakage . Interestingly , a pronounced change in the interpeptide interactions within the membrane of the substituted peptides was observed in the MD simulations . These findings provide crucial insights into the potential role of F103 and Q120 in PIFP activity : the N-terminal phenylalanine ( F103 ) is pivotal for membrane insertion and fusion , while the Q120 is crucial for regulating peptide oligomerization and pore formation .
BACKGROUND : Multiple myeloma ( MM ) is a biologically heterogeneous malignancy of clonal plasma cells , often progressing from MGUS or smoldering MM . It causes anemia , bone lesions , and immune dysfunction due to abnormal plasma cell expansion in the bone marrow . Neuroinflammatory and neurotrophic factors may influence MM progression by affecting immune cells and the bone marrow niche . Growing evidence points to a role for neuroimmune regulation in tumor immunity . Despite therapeutic progress , disease heterogeneity and resistance highlight the need for new strategies targeting the tumor microenvironment and neuroimmune axis . METHODS : This investigation exploited single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) to analyze MM and high-risk smoldering multiple myeloma ( SMMh ) samples , identifying 11 distinct cell types . We examined their transcriptional signatures , stemness , proliferative properties , and metabolic pathways , with particular attention to neuroimmune interactions in the tumor microenvironment . Using trajectory inference tools such as CytoTRACE , Monocle2 , and Slingshot , we traced the differentiation paths of MM cell subpopulations and identified key signaling pathways that may influence immune responses and tumor progression . RESULTS : The analysis identified four distinct subpopulations of myeloma cells , with the C0 IGLC3+ myeloma cells representing the least differentiated and most proliferative subset . These cells played a critical role in MM progression and may contribute to immune evasion mechanisms . Additionally , receptor-ligand interactions within the tumor microenvironment were identified , which may be influenced by neuroinflammatory and neurotrophic factors . These findings suggest that the nervous system and immune modulation significantly affect tumor biology , highlighting potential therapeutic targets that could be exploited to overcome resistance to conventional therapies . CONCLUSION : This single-cell analysis provided new insights into the cellular diversity and differentiation trajectories in MM , offering a deeper understanding of the complex neuroimmune interactions that drive tumor progression and resistance . By incorporating the role of neuroinflammation and immune modulation , our study suggested novel therapeutic strategies targeting the neuroimmune axis in oncology , ultimately contributing to the development of more effective , personalized treatment approaches for MM .
BACKGROUND : Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) presents significant health challenges due to its aggressive nature and poor prognosis from late-stage diagnosis . Despite these challenges , emerging therapies like immune checkpoint inhibitors offer hope . beta1-adrenergic signaling has been implicated in T cell exhaustion , which weakens the immune response in ESCC . Blocking this pathway could restore T cell function . Recent advances in single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) have enabled deeper insights into tumor heterogeneity and the immune landscape , opening the door for personalized treatment strategies that may improve survival and reduce resistance to therapy . METHODS : We combined scRNA-seq with bulk RNA analysis to explore adrenergic receptor signaling in ESCC , focusing on changes before and after neoadjuvant therapy . We identified ADRB1 ( + ) T cells through data analysis and experimental validation . Copy number variation ( CNV ) analysis detected malignant cells within scRNA-seq data , while intercellular interaction analysis examined communication between cell populations . Deconvolution of TCGA data revealed key immune populations , which were integrated into a prognostic model based on the adrenergic receptor signaling pathway and differentially expressed genes . RESULTS : The adrenergic receptor signaling pathway was found in various immune cells , including T cells . scRNA-seq analysis revealed increased ADRB1 expression in T cells after neoadjuvant therapy . Immunofluorescence confirmed colocalization of ADRB1 with T cells , and fluorescence-activated cell sorting ( FACS ) showed that ADRB1 expression was elevated alongside exhaustion markers , while immune function markers were reduced . CNV analysis highlighted malignant cells in the tumor microenvironment , and intercellular interaction analysis explored ADRB1 ( + ) T cells ' role in immune support . Deconvolution of TCGA data identified ADRB1 ( + ) T cells , SPP1 ( + ) macrophages , and CD44 ( + ) malignant cells , all of which were prognostically significant . A prognostic model constructed from the intersection of the adrenergic receptor signaling pathway and differentially expressed genes following neoadjuvant therapy showed a significant prognostic effect . CONCLUSIONS : ADRB1 expression increases after neoadjuvant therapy in ESCC and correlates with poor prognosis . Our findings suggest ADRB1 as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for post-neoadjuvant immunotherapy .
BACKGROUND : Although the treatment landscape for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) has seen significant advancements in the past decade with the introduction of immune checkpoint inhibitors and antiangiogenic drugs , progress has fallen short of expectations . Recently , a novel engineered oncolytic virus ( OHSV2 ) that secretes dual-specific T-cell engagers ( DSTEs ) targeting the fibroblast activation protein ( FAP ) was developed and combined with GPC3-targeting CAR-T cells and immunotoxins to exert a synergistic antitumor effect . METHODS : OHSV2-DSTE ( FAP5/CD3 ) was initially generated by transducing the DSTEs engaging FAP5 on fibroblasts into the backbone of our oncolytic virus OHSV An innovative high-order combination was devised in a xenograft mouse model to conceptually explore whether enhanced anti-tumor effects could be achieved . Additionally , the underlying mechanisms of synergistic effects and safety profiles were preliminarily investigated . RESULTS : OHSV2-DSTE ( FAP5/CD3 ) effectively targeted and eliminated fibroblasts in vitro while maintaining cytotoxicity and inducing immune activation compared to parental OHSV In vivo , dose-adjusted combination therapy resulted in a remarkable antitumor effect compared to control treatments , leading to tumor regression in 40% of mice without significant toxicity to major organs . Mechanistically , rather than directly depleting fibroblasts , OHSV2-DSTE ( FAP5/CD3 ) played an essential role in priming T-cell proliferation , infiltration , and activation , and inhibiting the supportive interaction between cancer cells and fibroblasts . CONCLUSIONS : This high-order combination represents a novel multiple-wave immunotherapeutic approach for HCC . Despite being a conceptual exploration , this strategy has demonstrated promising therapeutic efficacy and acceptable safety profiles .
BACKGROUND : Aplastic anemia ( AA ) , myelodysplastic syndromes ( MDS ) , and acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) exhibit complex pathogenic mechanisms and interrelated characteristics . We aimed to identify the common hub genes , establishing a foundation for preventing disease progression . METHODS : We selected relevant datasets from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database for differential gene expression , gene set enrichment , and weighted gene co-expression network analyses to identify hub genes , and then validated them . Subsequent analyses included immune infiltration analysis , single-cell sequencing , and cell communication analysis . We performed Mendelian randomization to screen inflammatory factors and immune cells . We used RT-qPCR , Enzyme - Linked Immunosorbent Assay ( ELISA ) , and cell proliferation assays to validate the identified hub genes , their relationship with cellular communication mediators and inflammatory factors , and their impact on cellular function . RESULTS : POLG and MAP2K7 were identified as common hub genes , with low expression observed across AA , MDS , and AML . There were distinct immune differentials among these diseases , with an enhanced correlation between immune cells and hub genes as the disease progressed . Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor ( MIF ) emerged as a key mediator of cellular communication . We identified 20 regulatory pathways of immune cells and inflammatory factors across different disease stages . In vitro validation confirmed low expression of the hub genes , which were inversely correlated with MIF and inflammatory factors , though they showed no significant impact on cell proliferation or migration . CONCLUSIONS : POLG and MAP2K7 demonstrate crucial roles in the progression from AA to MDS and , ultimately , to AML . These genes regulate more than 20 immune regulatory pathways through MIF-mediated communication , thereby influencing disease progression .
INTRODUCTION : Identifying predictive biomarkers for immune checkpoint inhibitor ( ICI ) treatment is critical for gastric cancer ( GC ) prognosis . C-X-C motif chemokine ligand 13 ( CXCL13 ) plays an important role in immune regulation by binding exclusively to its receptor CXCR However , its role , underlying mechanisms , and prognostic significance in ICI-treated GC patients remain controversial . METHODS : This study investigated the clinical significance of CXCL13 and its potential immunomodulatory function in GC patients . A total of 144 GC patients from two cohorts , who received a combination of chemotherapy and anti-PD-1 antibody , were analyzed . The expression of CXCL13 was assessed using immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . Associations between CXCL13 , CXCR5 , CD8 , and CD4 were assessed by IHC and immunofluorescence . Survival analysis was performed using the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards model . The treatment response to CXCL13 and anti-PD-1 antibody was investigated using a subcutaneous xenograft tumor mouse model . RESULTS : The results suggested that patients with high CXCL13 expression had prolonged survival . High CXCL13 expression exhibited increased infiltration of CXCR5+CD8+ T cells and was associated with better outcomes . The combined assessment of CXCL13 , CXCR5 , and CD8+ T cells served as an independent predictor of prognosis . Additionally , CXCR5 and CD8+ T cells were enriched in tertiary lymphoid structures ( TLSs ) , which conferred a prognostic benefit in the presence of high CXCL13 expression . CXCL13 , in combination with anti-PD-1 therapy , retarded tumor growth in vivo , resulting in increased infiltration of CXCR5+CD8+ T cells . DISCUSSION : This study identified CXCL13 as a prognostic factor in GC patients receiving ICI therapy , emphasizing its critical role in the antitumor microenvironment via CXCR5+CD8+ T cells .
INTRODUCTION : Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( PRRS ) , caused by the PRRS virus ( PRRSV ) , is an economically significant swine disease with extensive strain variation and limited heterologous protection . Modified live virus ( MLV ) vaccines developed by serially passaging the virus in monkey kidney cell lines have been widely used for more than 20 years . Lineage 1 virus , such as NADC30-like in China and L1C 1-4-4 strains in the United States , have gradually become the predominant strain or the dominant recombination isolate donor strain in recent years . MLVs licensed for use in the market supply low efficacy of heterologous protection ability against the NADC30-like strain , and a vaccine with improved safety and efficacy is therefore required . The method of virulence attenuation used for classical strains may not be applicable to the development of a vaccine against NADC30-like strains due to their low fidelity of replication . METHODS : Chimeric RvBJ-4- ( ORF2-4 ) SX , RvBJ-4- ( ORF5-6 ) SX , and RvBJ-4- ( ORF2-6 ) SX were constructed by substituting minor structural proteins ( GP2 , GP3 , and GP4 ) , major structural proteins ( GP5 and M ) or both in NADC30-like CHsx1401 to classical strain backbone BJ- RvBJ-4- ( ORF2-6 ) SX . Animal trials were conducted to assess the pathogenicity and protection of chimeric viruses . RESULTS AND DISCUSSION : Chimeric virus RvBJ-4- ( ORF2-6 ) SX demonstrates a favorable balance between safety and efficacy , with limited pathogenicity and providing faster viremia clearance as well as reduced lung lesions in vaccinated/challenged pigs . A novel strategy for providing safe and effective immunological protection against NADC30-like strains has been introduced , with the potential for implementation in the field .
Major Histocompatibility Complex class I ( MHC-I ) molecules bind and present peptides to cytotoxic T cells , protecting against pathogens and cancer . MHC-I is highly polymorphic and each allotype is promiscuous , and capable of binding a unique and diverse repertoire of peptide ligands . The peptide editing chaperone tapasin optimizes this allotype specific repertoire of peptides , resulting in the selection of high affinity peptides . MHC-I allotypes differ in the extent they engage tapasin . This suggests that tapasin-dependent MHC-I allotypes should present a less diverse repertoire that is enriched in higher-affinity peptides , and which are present in higher abundance , than tapasin independent MHC-I allotypes , which should present a broader repertoire containing peptides with a lower average affinity . Experimental verification of this hypothesis has been confounded by the different peptide binding specificities of MHC-I allotypes . Here , we independently investigated the peptide focusing function of tapasin by introducing a point mutation into a tapasin independent MHC-I allotype that dramatically increased its tapasin dependence without substantially altering its peptide binding specificity . This allowed us to demonstrate ligand focusing by tapasin at both the repertoire level in cellulo , and by using an in vitro system in which tapasin was artificially tethered to MHC-I , at the individual peptide level . We found that tapasin had a greater influence on tapasin dependent MHC-I molecules , and that tapasin modulated peptide selection according to peptide-MHC-I complex stability , disfavoring short-lived peptide-MHC-I complexes . Thus , tapasin dependent MHC-I molecules experience greater tapasin filtering , resulting in less diverse MHC-I immunopeptidomes that are enriched in high affinity peptide-MHC-I complexes .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancer is a heterogeneous malignancy with complex molecular characteristics , making accurate prognostication and treatment stratification particularly challenging . Emerging evidence suggests that lactylation , a novel post-translational modification , plays a crucial role in tumor progression and immune modulation . METHODS : To address breast cancer heterogeneity , we developed a machine learning-derived lactylation signature ( MLLS ) using lactylation-related genes selected through random survival forest ( RSF ) and univariate Cox regression analyses . A total of 108 algorithmic combinations were applied across multiple datasets to construct and validate the model . Immune microenvironment characteristics were analyzed using multiple immune infiltration algorithms . Computational drug-repurposing analyses were conducted to identify potential therapeutic agents for high-risk patients . RESULTS : The MLLS effectively stratified patients into low- and high-risk groups with significantly different prognoses . The model demonstrated robust predictive power across multiple cohorts . Immune infiltration analysis revealed that the low-risk group exhibited higher levels of immune checkpoints ( e . g . , PD-1 , PD-L1 ) and greater infiltration of B cells , CD4 ( + ) T cells , and CD8 ( + ) T cells , suggesting better responsiveness to immunotherapy . In contrast , the high-risk group showed immune suppression features associated with poor prognosis . Methotrexate was computationally predicted as a potential therapeutic candidate for high-risk patients , although experimental validation remains necessary . CONCLUSION : The MLLS represents a promising prognostic biomarker and may support personalized treatment strategies in breast cancer , particularly for identifying candidates who may benefit from immunotherapy .
BACKGROUND : Sintilimab , a programmed cell death protein-1 ( PD-1 ) inhibitor , has shown efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , though response heterogeneity persists . Previous studies suggest that the Lung Immune Prognostic Index ( LIPI ) may predict prognosis and immune-related adverse events ( irAEs ) in immunotherapy . This study aimed to develop and validate LIPI-based nomograms for predicting overall survival ( OS ) and irAEs in NSCLC patients treated with sintilimab . METHODS : Multicenter data stratified 356 patients into training , internal validation , and external validation cohorts . Propensity score matching ( PSM ) balanced baseline characteristics . Multivariable Cox regression identified OS and irAEs predictors , and nomograms were constructed using significant variables . Model performance was evaluated via concordance index ( C-index ) , time-dependent receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves , calibration plots , and decision curve analysis ( DCA ) . Kaplan-Meier analysis assessed risk stratification . RESULTS : Independent prognostic factors for OS include clinical stage , treatment lines , LIPI scores and albumin level . Among them , stage IV ( hazard ratio [HR]=725 , 95% confidence interval [CI] 529-902 ) , treatment line >/=2 ( HR=302 , 95%CI : 125-569 ) , LIPI intermediate ( HR=736 , 95%CI : 586-925 ) , LIPI poor ( HR=568 , 95% CI : 361-637 ) and albumin level>/=35 ( HR=802 , 95%CI : 698-023 ) were risk factors for OS . The OS prediction model demonstrated excellent discrimination across all cohorts , with time-dependent AUCs maintaining 770-850 for 1-2 year predictions . Consistent calibration was observed ( C-index : training=778 , internal validation=793 , external validation=790 ) . For irAEs prediction , significant predictors included age , sex , Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status ( ECOG PS ) , and LIPI scores . Similarly , the irAEs model showed robust performance ( AUCs 754-835 for 1-2 year predictions ; C-index : training=805 , internal validation=825 , external validation=775 ) . Both nomograms significantly outperformed single-variable predictions in Kaplan-Meier analyses . DCA confirmed superior net clinical benefit . CONCLUSION : LIPI-based nomograms effectively predicted OS and irAEs in sintilimab-treated NSCLC patients , offering valuable tools for personalized treatment and clinical decision-making .
OBJECTIVE : To identify new metabolic biomarkers associated with myasthenia gravis ( MG ) . METHODS : We analyzed 285 potential metabolic molecules from UK Biobank ( UKB ) for MG patients and identified elevated serum cystatin C ( Cys-C ) . Validation was performed using laboratory data , ELISA , and clinical information from Chinese ( CHN ) acetylcholine receptor antibody ( AChR-Ab ) positive generalized MG ( gMG ) cohorts . We assessed cytokines/chemokines/complements and peripheral blood T lymphocytes using Luminex assays and flow cytometry . MG-relevant scores including myasthenia gravis activities of daily living score ( MG-ADL ) and quantitative myasthenia gravis score ( QMG ) were prospectively collected and retrospectively analyzed . The correlations between serum Cys-C and the ratio of T helper 1 ( Th1 ) /Th2 were assessed . RESULTS : Serum Cys-C levels were significantly elevated in MG patients compared to healthy controls in both UKB cohorts and Chinese MG cohorts ( CHN ) ( UKB : 99 +/- 20 vs . 86 +/- 12 mg/L , p = 26E-41 ; CHN : 08 +/- 30 vs . 87 +/- 13 mg/L , p = 83E-08 ) . Higher serum Cys-C levels were found in MG patients with high disease burden , as stratified by MG-ADL score . Serum Cys-C correlated with MG scores , including QMG ( R = 40 , p = 90E-03 ) and MG-ADL scores ( R = 42 , p = 40E-03 ) . The ratio of Th1/Th2 correlated well with the serum Cys-C ( R = 29 , p = 10E-02 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Serum Cys-C levels were significantly elevated in AChR-Ab positive gMG patients and correlated with disease severity and Th1/Th2 ratio , suggesting its potential as an efficient biomarker for predicting the clinical severity of MG . Future prospective cohort studies with a large sample size are expected to validate these findings .
Immunologists generally view the notion of self and non-self as part of a broader , more contextual understanding of immune function , rather than a rigid dogma . While the classical paradigm that the primary role of the immune system is to recognize and eliminate anything foreign once provided a unifying basis for explaining tolerance and rejection , numerous discoveries have focused attention on how immune responses are finely tuned by a range of contextual cues , including tissue signals , hygienist theory , molecular mimicry , symbiotic microbes , metabolic factors and epigenetic modifications . Maternal-fetal tolerance and the persistence of microchimeric cells in adults demonstrate that genetically foreign cells can be actively integrated into the host , challenging the simple assumption that ' foreign ' equals unconditional attack . Similarly , research into the microbiome , the virome and the phenomenon of trained innate immunity has shown that there can be beneficial or even essential relationships between the body and what has traditionally been labelled ' non-self ' . Over the last decade , the idea that the immune system strictly enforces a binary distinction has instead evolved towards a model in which it continuously interprets signals of damage or perturbation , manages complex ecological relationships with commensal or latent organisms , and recalibrates according to the organism ' s life stage and environment . There remains a recognition that clonal deletion and negative selection in the thymus , together with MHC-bound peptide recognition , still underlie many core processes , and in certain clinical contexts , such as acute transplant rejection or the prevention of autoimmunity , an approximate self-non-self-categorization is directly relevant . Overall , however , the field recognizes that ' self ' is not a static attribute defined once and for all , but rather a dynamic and context-dependent state that continues to be shaped by microbial symbioses , epigenetic reprogramming and immunoregulatory networks throughout an individual ' s lifespan .
BACKGROUND : Mutations in the ARID1A gene , an integral component of the SWI/SNF complex , are prevalent , affecting prognosis and immune response in several malignancies , including gastric cancer ( GC ) . The aim of this study was to identify ARID1A mutation-associated immune genes to construct an ARID1A-related immune gene risk model ( ARM ) . METHODS : GSEA and ssGSEA were used to explore the involved biological pathways and the degree of immune cell infiltration , respectively . The prognosis model was constructed by lasso-COX . Protein expression level in tissue was verified by immunohistochemistry . Small molecule compounds were screened using molecular docking techniques and their anticancer value was validated in vitro and in vivo experiment . RESULTS : This study revealed immune-related pathways and infiltration level of multiple immune cell types were enriched in the ARID1A ( MUT ) group compared to the ARID1A ( WT ) group . ARID1A mutations were correlated with an improved prognosis in individuals treated with immune checkpoint inhibitor ( ICI ) analyzed via Cbioportal website . TCGA-STAD cohort was randomly divided into a training-group and a testing-group . Additionally , ARM was developed in the training group , which identified APOD and PROC from ARID1A mutation-associated differential immunity genes . A significantly poorer prognosis in the high-risk group compared to the low-risk group , which was consistent across TCGA-training/testing/all cohorts , five GEO cohorts and 55 GC patients from Hainan General Hospital . Furthermore , the immune microenvironment components and ICI therapeutic efficacy markers were different between the two groups . Meanwhile , APOD and PROC expression was higher in GC tissues compared to para-cancerous tissues . Baicalin and capsaicin inhibited the proliferation and metastatic ability of GC cells . CONCLUSION : ARM provides valuable insights into the prognosis and the effectiveness of ICI , thereby offering a novel strategy for clinical decision . Baicalin and capsaicin are promising potential drugs for GC treatment .
Mucoinflammatory lung disease in cystic fibrosis ( CF ) is characterized by airway surface liquid ( ASL ) layer dehydration and mucins hyperconcentration , which leads to airway obstruction , inflammation , bronchiectasis , and increased susceptibility to recurrent bacterial infections . Epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) is known to regulate airway mucous cell metaplasia ( MCM ) and mucins expression , but the role of EGFR pathway in the pathogenesis of CF-like lung disease remains unclear . Therefore , we hypothesized that airway epithelial cell-specific deficiency of EGFR mitigates mucoinflammatory responses in Scnn1b-transgenic ( Tg+ ) mice that phenocopy human CF-like lung disease . To test this hypothesis , we examined the effect of airway epithelial cell-specific EGFR deficiency on the manifestation of mucoinflammatory outcomes in Tg+ mice . The airway epithelial cell-specific EGFR-deficient wild-type ( WT ) mice did not exhibit any obvious structural and functional defects in the lungs . The deletion of EGFR in airway epithelial cells in Tg+ mice , however , resulted in increased recruitment of neutrophils and macrophages into the lung airspaces , which was accompanied by significantly increased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( BALF ) levels of inflammatory mediators , including KC , G-CSF , MIP-2 , MIP-1alpha , TNF-alpha , and MIP-1beta . Additionally , as compared with the EGFR-sufficient Tg+ mice , the airway epithelial cell-specific EGFR-deficient Tg+ mice exhibited significantly increased postnatal mortality and compromised bacterial clearance . The deletion of EGFR in the airway epithelial cells of Tg+ mice resulted in an increased degree of mucus obstruction , which was associated with an increase in MCM and MUC5B production . Some of the molecular markers of type 2 inflammation , including Il13 , Slc26a4 , and Retnla , were significantly increased in airway epithelial cell-specific EGFR-deficient Tg+ mice versus EGFR-sufficient Tg+ mice . Taken together , our data show that EGFR deletion in the airway epithelial cells compromises postnatal survival , delays bacterial clearance , and modulates inflammatory and mucus obstruction-relevant endpoints , i . e . , MCM , MUC5B production , and mucus obstruction , in Tg+ mice .
Myeloid cells within tumor microenvironments exhibit significant heterogeneity and play a critical role in influencing clinical outcomes . In this study , we investigated the infiltration of various myeloid cell subtypes in a cohort of cutaneous melanomas , revealing no significant correlation between myeloid cell densities and the occurrence of distant metastasis . We further examined the phenotypic characteristics of primary melanoma tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) utilizing the seven-phenotype classification recently proposed by Ma et al . , derived from extensive pan-cancer single-cell RNA-sequencing studies . First , we analyzed the transcriptomic profile of TAMs isolated from stage IV metastasizing primary melanomas , alongside melanoma-conditioned monocytes cultured in vitro , both supporting the inflammatory cytokine-producing macrophage phenotype . Next , we employed multicolor fluorescence confocal microscopy , to assess the expression of TAM phenotype markers at the protein level in a cohort of primary melanoma samples . Notably , markers indicative of the inflammatory TAM phenotype , quantified at single-cell level , were significantly enriched in metastasizing tumors , demonstrating an independent correlation with shorter disease-free and overall survival ( log-rank test , p< 0002 ) . Additionally , our screening of phenotype markers expression revealed that PD-L1 positivity in tumor cells , rather than in TAMs , was associated with poor prognosis , highlighting a novel aspect of the immune landscape in cutaneous melanoma .
Canine distemper virus ( CDV ) is the etiological agent of canine distemper . The virus can infect canids irrespective of age , sex , or breed , leading to a highly contagious and lethal disease that seriously threatens the health of canids , fur animals , and wildlife . Although vaccination can currently prevent CDV infection , developing effective emergency treatment drugs remains crucial . Nanobodies derived from camelid or shark heavy chain-only antibodies can effectively inhibit viral infections , suggesting their potential as therapeutic agents for treating CDV infection . In this study , we utilized a phage display nanobody library constructed from immunized alpacas and isolated a nanobody ( Nb-6C6 ) that specifically binds to the CDV hemagglutinin ( H ) protein . Nb-6C6 was successfully expressed in mammalian cells and exhibited high binding affinity to CDV H ( EC = 174 microg/mL ) . Neutralization assays further revealed that Nb-6C6 could effectively neutralize CDV ( IC = 773 microg/mL ) . Fusion of Nb-6C6 with canine IgG Fc resulted in homodimers , significantly increasing its neutralizing activity by up to 6-fold . AlphaFold3 analysis indicated that the neutralizing capacity of Nb-6C6 against CDV is attributed to an interaction between residue D106 in the CDR3 region and the conserved residue R408 of the H protein . These findings suggest that the nanobody Nb-6C6 and its bivalent form exhibit high-affinity binding and potent neutralizing activity against CDV , highlighting their potential as promising therapeutic candidates for the treatment of CDV infection .
BACKGROUND : Psoriasis and Crohn ' s disease ( CD ) are chronic inflammatory diseases that involve complex immune-mediated mechanisms . Despite clinical overlap and shared genetic predispositions , the molecular pathways connecting these diseases remain incompletely understood . The present study seeks to identify shared biomarkers and therapeutic targets for psoriasis and CD . METHODS : Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified from publicly available transcriptomic datasets related to psoriasis and CD . Simultaneously , weighted gene co-expression network analysis ( WGCNA ) was performed to identify gene modules associated with the clinical traits of psoriasis and CD . Subsequently , biomarkers were prioritized from shared key genes by integrating protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) networks with machine learning models . Gene Set Enrichment Analysis ( GSEA ) , along with Gene Ontology ( GO ) and KEGG pathway analyses , were performed to determine the biological significance of the identified genes . Immune infiltration analysis underscored the involvement of hub genes in immune regulation , while single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed the cellular localization of these hub genes . Additional targeted molecular biology experiments validated the shared biomarkers . DSigDB predictions were employed to identify potential therapeutic compounds . Molecular docking simulations were performed to assess the binding affinity of the drugs to key target proteins . Finally , additional in vitro experiments were conducted to validate the therapeutic effects of the identified compounds . RESULTS : The study identified KIF4A , DLGAP5 , NCAPG , CCNB1 , and CEP55 as key regulatory molecules and shared biomarkers for both diseases . GSEA and pathway analysis highlighted the importance of cell cycle regulation and immune response pathways in the comorbidities of psoriasis and CD . Immune infiltration analysis emphasized the role of hub genes in immune regulation . Furthermore , DSigDB predictions and molecular docking simulations indicated strong therapeutic potential for Etoposide , Lucanthone , and Piroxicam , with Etoposide showing the highest affinity for key targets . In cellular models , Etoposide demonstrated promising therapeutic effects by significantly downregulating the expression of psoriasis-related keratinocytes marker genes ( KRT6 , KRT16 ) and CD-related inflammatory cytokines ( IL6 , IL8 , TNF-alpha ) , highlighting its potential in treating psoriasis and CD . DISCUSSION : This study integrates bioinformatics , machine learning , and molecular validation to identify the shared molecular mechanisms of psoriasis and CD , uncovering novel biomarkers and potential combined therapeutic candidates . These findings provide valuable insights into potential treatment strategies for these diseases .
Many immunotherapeutic approaches aim to induce epitope-specific T-cell cytotoxicity . However , the identification-and especially the functional validation-of suitable epitopes by in vitro cytotoxicity assays can be challenging , particularly when the number of available epitope-specific cytotoxic T cells ( CTLs ) is limited . Here , we present a highly sensitive image-based cytotoxicity assay that allows the functional analysis of rare epitope-specific T cells . The live-cell imaging-based setup combines transient red labeling of target cells with a green caspase 3/7 probe , allowing reliable measurement of the fraction of apoptotic target cells . Time-course analysis enables the monitoring of subtle differences . This highly flexible assay can be applied to assess the killing of either target cells with endogenous epitope presentation or those artificially loaded with the epitope of interest . Analysis of assay sensitivity demonstrated that cytotoxicity mediated by as few as 1% epitope-specific CTLs in a T-cell culture can still be detected . The epitope-specificity of the assay was additionally validated by specific upregulation of PD-1 and LAG-3 on epitope-specific T cells , as well as the epitope-specific induction of interferon-gamma release . Finally , the assay was successfully applied to functionally validate human papillomavirus ( HPV ) 16 epitopes , by detecting epitope-specific killing of established patient-derived tumor cell lines by rare T-cell populations expanded from peripheral blood . Overall , this cytotoxicity assay setup provides a straightforward approach to assess the cytotoxic capacity of rare epitope-specific T cells and enables the analysis of T-cell responses against endogenously presented epitopes .
Shock , affecting a third of intensive care patients , remains a highly fatal condition despite advances in critical care , irrespective of its etiology . Cellular injury , central to shock pathophysiology , triggers the release of damage-associated molecular patterns ( DAMPs ) , such as extracellular cold-inducible RNA-binding protein ( eCIRP ) , high-mobility group box 1 ( HMGB1 ) , histones 3 and 4 , and adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) . These molecules are confined within cells under normal conditions and perform essential physiological functions . However , upon their extracellular release during cellular injury , they act as alarmins , engaging pattern recognition receptors ( PRRs ) on immune cells . This interaction triggers a robust inflammatory response , propagating systemic inflammation and exacerbating tissue damage . Excessive DAMP-mediated inflammation is increasingly recognized as a major contributor to morbidity and mortality in a wide range of critical illnesses , including trauma , hemorrhagic shock , sepsis , and organ ischemia/reperfusion ( I/R ) injury . These pathologies are characterized by uncontrolled inflammatory cascades driven by the deleterious effects of DAMPs , underscoring the urgent need for targeted therapeutic interventions . This review explores the pivotal role of DAMPs in the pathogenesis of acute inflammation and shock , highlighting cutting-edge therapeutic strategies aimed at mitigating their effects . Emerging approaches include monoclonal antibodies , decoy receptors , small molecule inhibitors , and scavengers designed to neutralize or inhibit DAMP activity . The discussion also delves into the potential clinical applications of these interventions , offering insights into how targeting DAMPs could transform the management of shock and improve patient outcomes .
This review explores the critical interplay between glycemic control , mucosal immunity , and vaccine response in diabetic patients . Diabetes mellitus , characterized by impaired glucose regulation , significantly impacts immune function , particularly at mucosal surfaces . Poor glycemic control diminishes vaccine-induced antibody responses and compromises mucosal defenses , such as secretory IgA production , increasing susceptibility to infections . We synthesize evidence highlighting the importance of optimizing glycemic management prior to vaccination to enhance immunogenicity . Furthermore , we examine the potential of personalized vaccination strategies , tailored to individual glycemic status , age , BMI , and kidney function , to improve vaccine efficacy in this vulnerable population . Additionally , we discuss the role of adjunct therapies , including probiotics , nutritional interventions , and lifestyle modifications , in modulating the gut microbiota and reinforcing mucosal barrier integrity . This review underscores the necessity for an interdisciplinary approach , integrating metabolic management with innovative vaccine designs , to maximize protection against infectious diseases in diabetic patients . Future research should prioritize longitudinal studies assessing both systemic and mucosal immunity and refine personalized vaccination strategies to ensure robust and durable protection .
BACKGROUND : Toll-like receptor 3 ( TLR3 ) is a pattern recognition receptor known to play a crucial role in the immune response to cancer . However , its effect on the efficacy of immunotherapy in lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) remains unclear . This study aims to investigate the role of TLR3 in LUAD by examining its expression levels , prognostic significance , and impact on immune signaling pathways . METHODS : We analyzed the impact of TLR3 expression on the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma patients using data from the Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) database and four additional cohorts ( GSE72094 , GSE30219 , GSE50081 and GSE31210 ) . Functional enrichment analyses were performed to compare molecular features between low and high TLR3 expression groups using gene set variation analysis ( GSVA ) . We also examined the correlation between TLR3 and tumor mutation burden ( TMB ) , immune infiltration , and PD-L1 expression . Further experimental validation was conducted using co-culture systems of LUAD cells and peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) with PD1 inhibitors , and Western blot analysis to investigate the involvement of NF-kappaB signaling . RESULTS : TLR3 expression was significantly lower in LUAD tissues compared to normal tissues , with high TLR3 expression correlating with better survival outcomes across multiple cohorts . High TLR3 expression was associated with increased TMB and enhanced immune activation . Patients with high TLR3 expression exhibited higher immune checkpoint expression and immune cell infiltration . Experimental results showed that TLR3 agonists increased the susceptibility of LUAD cells to activated PBMCs under PD1 inhibitor therapy , inhibiting cell proliferation , migration , and invasion . Additionally , TLR3 has a strong positive correlation with MHC molecules and upregulated PD-L1 expression . NF-kappaB was identified as a key regulator of PD-L1 expression , with TLR3 agonists enhancing NF-kappaB and PD-L1 activity . CONCLUSION : TLR3 enhances the anti-tumor immune response in LUAD by modulating NF-kappaB signaling and PD-L1 expression , making it a promising prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target . This study highlights the potential of TLR3 to improve immunotherapy outcomes , providing a comprehensive analysis of its role in LUAD and paving the way for novel therapeutic strategies targeting TLR3-mediated pathways .
BACKGROUND : Although immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) represent a substantial breakthrough in cancer treatment , it is crucial to acknowledge that their efficacy is limited to a subset of patients . The heterogeneity and stemness of cancer render its response to immunotherapy variable , warranting the identification of robust biomarkers for evaluation . METHODS : Publicly available Ovarian Cancer ( OV ) single-cell RNA ( scRNA ) sequence dataset was collected and analyzed to elucidate the intrinsic driver gene of OV cancer cells . Through genome-scale CRISPR screening of RNA sequencing data from Project Achilles , essential genes specific to OV were identified . A novel cancer stem cell index ( CSCI ) was developed and validated using multiple advanced algorithms and large-scale datasets , as well as corresponding clinical features , including 14 OV transcriptomic datasets , 7 pan-cancer ICI transcriptomic cohorts and one melanoma scRNA dataset derived from PD-1 treated patients . RESULTS : Chromosomal 20q gain , 8q gain , and 5q loss have been identified as ovarian cancer-specific driving variations . By analyzing large-scale datasets of ovarian cancer transcriptomics , including scRNA and CRISPR cell line datasets , we have identified a gene set that influences tumor intrinsic drivers and stemness properties . We then developed the CSCI to predict the prognosis and response to immunotherapy in ovarian cancer patients using advanced machine learning algorithms . When applied to PD1/PD-L1 ICI transcriptomic cohorts , CSCI consistently and accurately predicts tumor progression and immunotherapy benefits , with a mean AUC greater than Notably , compared to previously established signatures , CSCI demonstrates better predictive performance across multiple ovarian cancer datasets . Intriguingly , we discovered that amplification of CSE1L enhances the stemness of tumor-initiating cells , facilitates angiogenesis , and the formation of ovarian cancer , which can serve as a potential therapeutic target . Finally , experiments validated that CSE1L promotes progression , migration , and proliferation of ovarian cancer . CONCLUSIONS : Our study has uncovered a robust correlation between variations in cancer intrinsic drivers and stemness , as well as resistance to immunotherapy . This finding provides valuable insights for potential strategies to overcome immune resistance by targeting genes associated with stemness .
Astrocytes play a pivotal role in the inflammatory response triggered by traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) . They are not only involved in the initial inflammatory response following injury but also significantly contribute to Astrocyte activation and inflammasome release are key processes in the pathophysiology of TBI , significantly affecting the progression of secondary injury and long-term outcomes . This comprehensive review explores the complex triggering mechanisms of astrocyte activation following TBI , the intricate pathways controlling the release of inflammasomes from activated astrocytes , and the subsequent neuroinflammatory cascade and its multifaceted roles after injury . The exploration of these processes not only deepens our understanding of the neuroinflammatory cascade but also highlights the potential of astrocytes as critical therapeutic targets for TBI interventions . We then evaluate cutting-edge research aimed at targeted therapeutic approaches to modulate pro-inflammatory astrocytes and discuss emerging pharmacological interventions and their efficacy in preclinical models . Given that there has yet to be a relevant review elucidating the specific intracellular mechanisms targeting astrocyte release of inflammatory substances , this review aims to provide a nuanced understanding of astrocyte-mediated neuroinflammation in TBI and elucidate promising avenues for therapeutic interventions that could fundamentally change TBI management and improve patient outcomes . The development of secondary brain injury and long-term neurological sequelae . By releasing a variety of cytokines and chemokines , astrocytes regulate neuroinflammation , thereby influencing the survival and function of surrounding cells . In recent years , researchers have concentrated their efforts on elucidating the signaling crosstalk between astrocytes and other cells under various conditions , while exploring potential therapeutic interventions targeting these cells . This paper highlights the specific mechanisms by which astrocytes produce inflammatory mediators during the acute phase post-TBI , including their roles in inflammatory signaling , blood-brain barrier integrity , and neuronal protection . Additionally , we discuss current preclinical and clinical intervention strategies targeting astrocytes and their potential to mitigate neurological damage and enhance recovery following TBI . Finally , we explore the feasibility of pharmacologically assessing astrocyte activity post-TBI as a biomarker for predicting acute-phase neuroinflammatory changes .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is becoming increasingly prevalent . Regulated cell death ( RCD ) has emerged as a significant disease phenotype and may act as a marker for liver fibrosis . The present study aimed to investigate the regulation of RCD-related genes in MASH to elucidate the role of RCD in the progression of MASH . METHODS : The gene expression profiles from the GSE130970 and GSE49541 datasets were retrieved from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database for analysis . A total of 101 combinations of 10 machine learning algorithms were employed to screen for characteristic RCD-related differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) that reflect the progression of MASH . Gene Ontology ( GO ) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) analyses were conducted to explore the enrichment pathways and functions of the feature genes . we performed cell classification analysis to investigate immune cell infiltration . Consensus cluster analysis was performed to identify MASH subtypes associated with RCD . The GSE89632 dataset was utilized to analyze the correlation of characteristic genes with clinical features of MASH . The DGIdb database was employed to screen for potential therapeutic drugs and compounds targeting the feature genes . In addition , we established mouse liver fibrosis models induced by methionine-choline-deficient ( MCD ) diet or CCl4 treatment , and further validated the expression of characteristic genes through quantitative real-time PCR ( q-PCR ) . Lastly , we knocked down EPHA3 in LX2 cells to explore its effect on TGFb-induced activation of LX2 cells . RESULTS : This study discovered a total of 11 RCD-associated DEGs , which predicted the progression of MASH . Advanced MASH has higher levels of immune cell infiltration and is significantly correlated with the RCD-related DEGs expression . MASH can be classified into two subtypes , cluster 1 and cluster 2 , based on these feature genes . Compared with cluster 1 , cluster 2 has highly expressed RCD-related DEGs , shows an increase in the degree of fibrosis . Furthermore , We discovered that the expression levels of feature genes were positively correlated with AST and ALT levels . Subsequently , We also evaluated the expression of these 11 feature genes in the liver tissues of mice with fibrosis induced by MCD or CCl4 , and the results suggested that these genes may be involved in the development of fibrosis . WB results showed that the protein level of EPHA3 significantly increased in both mouse models of liver fibrosis . In vitro , we observed that knocking down EPHA3 in LX2 cells significantly inhibited the activation of the TGF-beta/Smad3 signaling pathway . CONCLUSION : Our study sheds light on the fact that RCD contribute to the progression of MASH , high lighting potential therapeutic targets for treating this disease .
INTRODUCTION : Bladder cancer remains a major challenge in clinical oncology , particularly due to the development of platinum resistance , which severely impacts patient prognosis . Despite numerous attempts to create effective prognostic models , their clinical applicability has often been limited . METHODS : In this study , we utilized a robust statistical approach , LASSO-COX regression analysis , to develop a novel prognostic model for bladder cancer based on cisplatin sensitivity-related genes ( CSRGs ) . The model was validated using both the TCGA-BLCA dataset and an independent validation set , GSE Additionally , we employed various in vitro assays , including CCK-8 and EdU assays for cell proliferation , transwell assays for migration , and flow cytometry for apoptosis analysis , to investigate the biological function of the identified genes . RESULTS : Our prognostic model demonstrated superior predictive performance , with high AUC values . SCAMP2 was identified as a critical gene with elevated expression in bladder cancer , showing strong correlation with sensitivity to multiple anti-cancer drugs , including cisplatin . Further functional assays revealed that SCAMP2 mediates drug resistance in bladder cancer cells via the NOTCH signaling pathway . Additionally , in vivo experiments showed that SCAMP2 overexpression significantly enhanced cisplatin sensitivity in bladder cancer tissues . DISCUSSION : These findings underscore the potential of CSRGs , particularly SCAMP2 , as critical biomarkers for bladder cancer prognosis . The identification of SCAMP2 as a regulator of NOTCH signaling in cisplatin resistance offers new insights into the molecular mechanisms of chemotherapy resistance and suggests potential therapeutic targets for overcoming drug resistance . Our model could guide personalized treatment strategies and improve bladder cancer patient outcomes .
Puumala orthohantavirus ( PUUV ) is an emerging zoonotic virus that was first discovered in the Puumala region of Finland in the early 1980s and is the primary etiological agent of nephropathia epidemica ( NE ) , a milder form of a life-threatening disease known as hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome ( HFRS ) . PUUV and other members of the Old World hantaviruses ( OWHVs ) predominantly circulate in rodents or insectivores across Eurasia , accounting for several thousand of reported HFRS cases every year ( with many more unreported/misdiagnosed cases suspected ) . The rodent reservoir of PUUV is the common bank vole ( Myodes ( M . ) glareolus ) , and transmission of the virus to humans occurs via inhalation of contagious aerosols and through contact with contaminated droppings or urine . Although PUUV is the subject of extensive research , due to its potential to cause severe disease outcomes in humans and its considerable economic and social impact , neither licensed vaccines nor specific antiviral treatments are available against PUUV . However , many important advancements have been made in terms of PUUV research over the last years . This included the elucidation of its glycoproteins , the discovery of broadly neutralizing hantavirus antibodies as therapeutic candidates and expanded research on the mRNA vaccine technology which will likely enable the development of strong PUUV vaccine candidates in the near future . Currently , there is still a lack of suitable animal models for the preclinical evaluation of experimental vaccines and antivirals , which hampers vaccine and antiviral development . Current attempts to decrease hantavirus-associated human infections rely primarily on prevention and countermeasures for rodent control , including reduced contact to droppings , saliva and urine , and disinfection of areas that are contaminated with rodent excreta . Here , we review these recent advances and other aspects including PUUV prevalence , virus biology , diagnosis and clinical features , and current animal models for vaccine and treatment development .
INTRODUCTION : HIV proteins , such as the Transactivator of transcription ( Tat ) , mediate neuroinflammation in the central nervous system by promoting the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and chemokines . Long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) regulate gene expression by sponging microRNAs ( miRs ) , but their role in HIV Tat-mediated microglial activation remains poorly understood . This study aimed to investigate the involvement of the lncRNA Xist-miR-124-CCL2 axis in HIV Tat-exposed microglial cells . METHODS : Mouse primary microglial cells were exposed to HIV Tat , and the expression of lncRNA Xist , miR-124 , and CCL2 was evaluated using qPCR , Western blotting , and ELISA . Dual-luciferase reporter and Argonaute immunoprecipitation assays were used to confirm molecular interactions . Functional experiments involved lncRNA Xist silencing and miR-124 overexpression . In vivo validation was performed using doxycycline-inducible HIV Tat transgenic mice . RESULTS : HIV Tat significantly upregulated lncRNA Xist and downregulated miR-124 expression in mouse primary microglial cells . miR-124 was identified as a direct target of lncRNA Xist and the 3 ' -UTR of CCL Silencing lncRNA Xist or overexpressing miR-124 reduced HIV Tat-induced CCL2 expression and microglial activation . In vivo studies corroborated these findings , with doxycycline-fed iTat mice showing elevated lncRNA Xist and CCL2 levels and reduced miR-124 expression in the frontal cortex . DISCUSSION : Our findings identify a novel regulatory axis whereby HIV Tat-induced upregulation of lncRNA Xist sponges miR-124 , leading to CCL2 overexpression and microglial activation . Targeting the lncRNA Xist-miR-124-CCL2 pathway may represent a promising therapeutic strategy to mitigate neuroinflammation associated with NeuroHIV .
BACKGROUND : To further explore the disease heterogeneity of different subtypes of Juvenile idiopathic arthritis ( JIA ) and analyze their pathogenesis mechanisms . METHOD : The single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) was carried out to investigate the disease heterogeneity and molecular mechanisms of immune responses in immune cells in JIA . RESULT : In our study , we provided a immunological landscape of HLA-B27-positive JIA and HLA-B27-negative JIA immune cells at single cell RNA-Seq resolution . We found a higher proportion of CCR7+/RELB+/IRF1+ triple positive T cells in the peripheral blood of patients with JIA , and such T cells were predominantly present in HLA-B27 ( + ) JIA patients . Furthermore , we hypothesized that CCR7+/RELB+/IRF1+ triple positive T cells were highly activated T cells capable of promoting the differentiation of osteoclasts by producing IL-17 , thus causing damage to cartilage in HLA-B27 ( + ) JIA patients . Unlike JIA patients , CCR7+/RELB+/IRF1+ triple positive T cells were not found in the peripheral blood of pSS patients and SLE patients , moreover , T cells from pSS patients and SLE patients were less able to produce IL-17 than those from JIA patients . CONCLUSION : Our study provided evidence of cellular and molecular levels of involvement in JIA pathogenesis and identified the critical roles for T cells in JIA pathogenesis . Furthermore , our results suggested that there were significant differences in T cell composition and gene expression between HLA-B27 ( + ) JIA patients and HLA-B27 ( - ) JIA patients . Our findings indicated that CCR7+/RELB+/IRF1+ positive T cells could damage the cartilage of HLA-B27 ( + ) JIA by producing cytokines such as IL-
OBJECTIVE : As a distinctive subset of T cells , intraepithelial lymphocytes ( IELs ) are found in the epithelium of mucosal barrier and serve as the primary defenders of the intestinal mucosal immune system . IELs exhibit phenotypic and functional diversity with high expression of activated marker molecules , tissue-homing integrins , NK cell receptors , cytotoxic T cell-related molecules , and cytokines . Meanwhile , IELs demonstrate differentiation plasticity , antigen recognition diversity , self-reactivity , and rapid " memory " effect , which enable them to play a crucial role in regulating responses , maintaining mucosal barriers , promoting immune tolerance , and providing resistance to infections . In addition , IELs have been explored in autoimmune diseases , inflammatory diseases , and cancers . However , the specific involvement and underlying mechanisms of IELs in oral diseases have not been systematically discussed . METHODS : A systematic literature review was conducted using the PubMed/MEDLINE databases to identify and analyze relevant literatures on the roles of IELs in oral diseases . RESULTS : The literature review revealed the characteristics of IELs and emphasized the potential roles of IELs in the pathogenesis of oral lichen planus , oral cancers , periodontal diseases , graft-versus-host disease , and primary Sjogren ' s syndrome . CONCLUSION : This review mainly focuses on the involvement of IELs in oral diseases , with a particular emphasis on the main functions and underlying mechanisms by which IELs influence the pathogenesis and progression of these conditions .
Activated phosphoinositide 3-kinase delta syndrome ( APDS ) , an inborn error of immunity associated with gain-of-function mutations in the PIK3CD gene , is characterized by dysregulated PI3Kdelta signaling . The clinical spectrum commonly includes recurrent respiratory infections and lymphoproliferative manifestations . We present an adolescent male with APDS1 manifesting recurrent sinopulmonary infections , generalized lymphadenopathy , hepatosplenomegaly , gastrointestinal manifestations , and combined T-cell/B-cell lymphopenia , complicated by Epstein-Barr virus-positive diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( EBV+ DLBCL ) . Whole-exome sequencing identified a heterozygous PIK3CD variant ( c . 3061G>A p . Glu1021Lys ) , supporting the molecular diagnosis of APDS This case adds to emerging evidence linking APDS1 with EBV-driven lymphomagenesis , thereby further supporting the critical role of PI3K delta pathway dysregulation in promoting EBV-associated lymphoid malignancies .
BACKGROUND : The COVID-19 pandemic demanded diverse vaccination strategies , and there is significant interest in their effectiveness in generating a robust immune response . In Brazil , the use of CoronaVac was crucial in reducing mortality ; however , heterologous booster doses were necessary to enhance memory immune response . This study aimed to evaluate the humoral and cellular immunity in healthcare workers who were vaccinated with a complete regimen of CoronaVac and subsequently received heterologous booster doses over nearly one year . METHODS : A longitudinal study recruited healthcare professionals with varying levels of exposure to SARS-CoV-2 from the Health Complex of the Rio de Janeiro State University ( UERJ ) , Rio de Janeiro , Brazil . Blood samples were collected at five time points , including baseline and after vaccination with CoronaVac and heterologous booster doses ( ChAdOx1 nCov-19 or BNT162b2 ) . The Th1/Th2/Th17 cytokine production was measured by Flow Cytometry , using whole blood samples stimulated or not with the SARS-CoV-2 Spike protein . In parallel , serum levels of IgG antibodies against Spike ( anti-S ) and Nucleocapsid ( anti-N ) proteins were assessed using an immunoassay . Adjustments were made for confounding factors , including age , sex , level of SARS-CoV-2 exposure , and COVID-19 infection status . RESULTS : Our results demonstrate that CoronaVac induced high anti-S IgG levels at all evaluated time points ( P<01 ) . Cytokine analysis revealed a sustained production of antigen-specific Th1 cytokines , including IL-2 ( P<01 ) and IFN-gamma ( P<05 ) regardless of level of SARS-CoV-2 exposure or previous COVID-19 infection at any point during the study . Additionally , we identified six moderate to strong positive correlations ( P<0001 ) : IL-10 and IFN-gamma ( rho=77 ) , IL-6 and TNF ( rho=77 ) , IL-2 and IFN-gamma ( rho=71 ) , IL-6 and IL-10 ( rho=66 ) , anti-N IgG and anti-S IgG ( rho=62 ) , and IL-2 and anti-S IgG ( rho=62 ) . CONCLUSION : The CoronaVac elicited an antigen-specific cellular immune response , characterized by enhancing the production of key cytokines such as IFN-gamma and IL-2 , with high levels of anti-S IgG . Furthermore , the administration of heterologous boosters significantly enhanced these immune responses , demonstrating induced-specific immunological response . These findings underscore the importance of primary vaccination and boosters in inducing immune protection against COVID-19 , potentially informing future vaccination policies and approaches .
Myocardial infarction ( MI ) , which is characterized by high morbidity and mortality , is a serious threat to human life and health , and timely reperfusion therapy to save ischemic myocardium is currently the most effective intervention . Although reperfusion therapy effectively restores coronary blood flow and maximally limits the infarct size , it triggers additional cell death and tissue damage , which is known as myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury ( MIRI ) . Multiple immune cells are present in the reperfusion area , executing specific functions and engaging in crosstalk during diverse stages , constituting a complex immune microenvironment involved in tissue repair and regeneration after MIRI . Immunotherapy brings new hope for treating ischemic heart disease by modulating the immune microenvironment . In this paper , we explore the regulatory roles of various immune cells during MIRI and the close relationship between different cell deaths and the immune microenvironment . In addition , we present the current status of research on targeting the immune system to intervene in MIRI , with the expectation of providing a basis for achieving clinical translation .
CD19-directed CAR T-cell therapy is a breakthrough immunotherapy for B-cell malignancies . However , CD19 loss-mediated relapsed/refractory disease continues to pose a significant challenge , highlighting the urgent need for CAR T cells targeting alternative antigens . To address this issue , we developed a CD20-directed CAR T incorporated with an additional CD30-directed binder to enhance cytotoxicity toward cancer cells . Here , we report that a patient with bulky transformed follicular lymphoma was successfully treated with CD20/CD30-directed CAR-T cells . The patient received two doses of anti-CD20/CD30-CAR-T therapy administered one month apart . Complete metabolic remission was achieved 1 month after the first infusion without evidence of cytokine release syndrome ( CRS ) or immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity syndrome ( ICANS ) . The second dose was given as a consolidation therapy with sustained disease-free survival exceeding 12 months to date . The report underscores the promising therapeutic potential and safety profile of CD20/CD30-directed CAR T-cell therapy . CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION : https : //www . clinicaltrials . gov , identifier NCT
BACKGROUND : To assess the oncologic outcomes in patients with oral squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) who underwent treatment with radiotherapy ( RT ) or chemoradiation therapy ( CRT ) following neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy and surgery . METHODS : Data from patients who underwent neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy , surgery , and adjuvant therapy were collected prospectively and analyzed retrospectively . The primary outcomes assessed were 3-year overall survival and locoregional control . Secondary endpoints included the objective response rate ( ORR ) , rates of pathologic complete response ( pCR ) and major pathologic response ( MPR ) , as well as safety . RESULTS : A total of 137 patients were included in the analysis . Neoadjuvant therapy yielded an ORR of 7% , with pCR and MPR achieved in 47 and 73 patients , respectively . Grade III and IV adverse events were rare , comprising only 6% of all events . The addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to RT did not show a significant reduction in the risk of locoregional recurrence . However , with regards to overall survival , the hazard ratios were 85 ( 95% CI : 73-96 ) for the MPR group and 66 ( 95% CI : 37-89 ) for the pCR group , both significantly higher than that in patients with incomplete pathologic response . The addition of adjuvant chemotherapy to RT was associated with a 5% reduction in the risk of mortality ( 95% CI : 1%-14% ) , the protective effect of CRT was the most obvious in patients with MPR . CONCLUSION : Neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy demonstrated high safety and efficacy in oral SCC . CRT was superior to RT in terms of overall survival especially in patients with MPR when administered following neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy and surgery .
Among various pathogens , viruses pose significant threats to the livestock and poultry industry , resulting in substantial annual costs due to production losses and vaccination . The MHC-I presentation pathway is a crucial surveillance mechanism for preventing viral infections . Consequently , many viruses have evolved sophisticated strategies to inhibit the presentation of viral peptides by MHC-I to CD8 ( + ) T-cells , thereby evading the immune system . Understanding the mechanisms that suppress the MHC-I pathway and identifying specific binding peptides are essential for comprehending viral immune evasion and developing effective animal vaccines . This review summarizes the viral strategies for evading immune recognition , including the inhibition of MHC-I molecules synthesis , degradation , transport , and assembly , which affect MHC-I surface expression during viral infections . We also present evidence that MHC-I surface expression is frequently lost during numerous viral infections in livestock and poultry and offer new insights into the underlying mechanisms through which viruses inactivate the MHC-I antigen presentation pathway . Collectively , these advanced findings on viral evasion from the MHC-I pathway could inform the development of more effectives strategies to restore immunological control over viral infections and improve vaccines for the livestock and poultry industry .
Early antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) is essential for controlling HIV-1 replication and boosting immune function . gammadelta T cells , as a vital component of the innate immune system , are implicated in the antiviral response . However , their immunological profile during acute HIV-1 infection and the early stages of ART remains unclear . This study aimed to delineate the immunological landscape of gammadelta T cells in individuals with acute HIV-1 infection undergoing early ART . We enrolled 65 participants who initiated ART immediately post-diagnosis and assessed the phenotypes and functions of gammadelta T cells using flow cytometry . We demonstrated that early ART significantly increased the frequency of Vdelta2 T cells , while the Vdelta1 T cell frequency remained stable and showed an inverse relationship with CD4 ( + ) T cell counts after ART . Early ART normalized the activation and PD-1 expression in Vdelta1 and Vdelta2 T cells , aligning with healthy controls ( HCs ) levels . Nevertheless , the proliferation of these cells , particularly within the PD-1 ( + ) subset , remains elevated post-ART . We also noted a reduction in perforin secretion in PD-1 ( + ) Vdelta1 and Vdelta2 T cells of people living with HIV ( PLWH ) . Furthermore , Vdelta1 T cells were identified as the predominant regulatory T cells , with TGF-beta production and co-expression of CD127 and CXCR4 , negatively correlated with CD8 ( + ) T cell activation . Our study elucidates the dynamic immunological characteristics of gammadelta T cells in acute HIV-1 infection and early ART , contributing to the understanding of their role in HIV-1 pathogenesis and the potential for gammadelta T cell-based immunotherapeutic strategies .
OBJECTIVE : The application of Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM ) in treating cancer by regulating the immune system has garnered significant attention in the academic community . However , comprehensive quantitative analyses in this field remain limited . This study aims to assess the research progress and key trends over the past decade , providing a framework for future studies . METHODS : A comprehensive literature search was conducted on the application of TCM in treating cancer by regulating the immune system from 2015 to 2025 using the Web of Science database . The search terms mainly included cancer , Traditional Chinese Medicine , immunity and so on . Data were analyzed and visualized using Origin , R software , VOSviewer , and CiteSpace . RESULTS : A total of 2 , 459 articles were included in the analysis . The number of related publications has steadily increased since China leads in publication volume and plays a crucial role in international collaboration . The Journal of Ethnopharmacology is the leading journal in this field , publishing a substantial number of highly cited studies . Key research areas include keywords such as " apoptosis , " " expression , " " inflammation , " " extract , " " in vitro , " " activation , " " antioxidant , " and " NF-kappa B , " focusing on exploring the role , mechanisms , and efficacy of TCM in modulating immune responses . CONCLUSION : Research interest in TCM ' s role in treating cancer through immune system regulation continues to grow , underscoring its potential in cancer therapy . Current research primarily focuses on the mechanisms by which TCM treats cancer through the modulation of immune cell functions , inhibition of tumor immune evasion , and regulation of immune-related signaling pathways . It also explores its clinical applications and the potential for enhancing the efficacy of immunotherapy .
OBJECTIVE : To juxtapose the efficacy and safety profiles of neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy ( NAIC ) and neoadjuvant immunoradiotherapy ( NAIR ) in the management of locally advanced oral squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) . METHODS : A retrospective analysis of prospectively gathered data was conducted . The study evaluated the impact of NAIC versus NAIR on various parameters , including pathologic complete response ( pCR ) , major pathologic response ( mPR ) , clinical to pathological downstaging , surgical site infection , quality of life , pathologic adverse features , and prognostic outcomes . RESULTS : The study encompassed a total of 120 patients , with 73 undergoing NAIC . The pCR and mPR rates in the NAIR group were 5% and 8% , respectively , closely mirroring the 5% and 9% observed in the NAIC cohort . A propensity for clinical to pathological downstaging and a reduced incidence of pathologic adverse features was noted in the NAIC population . However , both groups exhibited similar distributions in surgical site infection rates , quality of life metrics , grade 3/4 adverse events , and overall survival . In the Cox proportional hazards model , patients receiving NAIC demonstrated a hazard ratio of 87 ( 95% confidence interval : 65-98 ) for 3-year locoregional control , relative to the NAIR group . CONCLUSION : In the context of locally advanced oral SCC , both NAIC and NAIR exhibited robust efficacy and safety profiles . Nevertheless , NAIC provided superior locoregional control compared to NAIR , thereby emerging as the more favorable initial therapeutic option over NAIR .
Sex differences in immune system development and response to pathogens has been well documented , with females exhibiting more favorable outcomes for certain infections but a higher incidence of autoimmune disease compared to males . At least some of these sex differences are mediated by sex hormones , which signal through sex hormone receptors to remodel the regulatory chromatin landscape of cells . Here , we summarize the current knowledge of how sex hormone receptors remodel chromatin structure and epigenetic marks in different contexts in humans . As the epigenome is fundamental to specifying cell identity and function , and reflects past exposures , epigenetic variation can influence cellular responses to future stimuli . This has implications for susceptibility to infection and complex inflammatory disease in a range of hormone therapy settings , including gender-affirming hormone therapy in transgender people . Therefore , profiling of epigenetic marks in the context of gender-affirming hormone therapy is an important unexplored field of research .
Although infrequent , there have been Apollo program reports of lunar dust exposure leading to notable upper respiratory symptoms in select crewmembers . Possible mechanisms include particulate irritation , inflammation from toxic insult , or legitimate adaptive immune-mediated response . Although sterile non-protein matter would not be expected to be immunogenic , one Apollo flight surgeon reported increasing symptoms upon repeated perceived exposure with associated eosinophilia , suggestive of possible allergic reactions . Many International Space Station ( ISS ) crews display a pattern of persistent immune system dysregulation and latent virus reactivation . Some ISS crews manifest atypical respiratory and/or dermatitis symptoms which could have an allergic component . It is logical to anticipate crew immune dysregulation could worsen during prolonged deep space missions and planetary surface hazards will only complicate crew health risks . Allergic ( i . e . mast cell-mediated ) reactivity could adversely increase negative clinical and operational impacts for long-duration lunar astronauts and affect countermeasure requirements for surface vehicles . This study investigated whether lunar dust exposure could possibly elicit an IgE mediated allergic response during spaceflight by utilizing in vitro cell culture models . Our laboratory was officially approved for receipt of actual lunar dust samples from the Apollo 16 mission from NASA . These samples were used to complete the proposed set of in vitro cell culture experiments , using human peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) from healthy individuals , and basophils and eosinophil cell lines . Cells were co-cultured with cellular mitogens , common recall antigens ( Der p1 ) , fine ground silica quartz ( control ) , or lunar dust , to study whether lunar dust exposure could alter the generation of selective immune responses associated with clinical allergic reactions . Measured outputs included supernatant-derived total IgE , tryptase , histamine , and selected cytokine levels . Cellular activation was monitored by assessing activation markers via flow cytometry . EM/x-ray analysis was used to determine cellular interactions with dust particles . The assessments in primary human blood immune cells indicated no evidence for cellular responsiveness nor ' allergy-like ' reactivity to lunar dust . Assessments using purified ' allergic ' cell lines , did yield some unique but mild responsiveness to lunar dust , however such cells lines can have response profiles somewhat different from their in vivo counterparts . This study determining the allergy specific immune responses , will help guide NASA to develop mitigation techniques and potential countermeasures necessary in the event of excessive exposure to lunar dust during lunar surface EVAs .
Lung cancer continues to be the primary cause of cancer-related deaths globally , with non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) accounting for approximately 85% of all instances . Recently , immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) have transformed the treatment approach for NSCLC , however , only a subset of patients experiences significant benefits . Therefore , identifying reliable biomarkers to forecast the efficacy of ICIs is crucial for ensuring the safety and effectiveness of treatments , becoming a major focus of current research efforts . This review highlights the recent advances in predictive biomarkers for the efficacy of ICIs in the treatment of NSCLC , including PD-L1 expression , tertiary lymphoid structures ( TLS ) , tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( TILs ) , tumor genomic alterations , transcriptional signatures , circulating biomarkers , and the microbiome . Furthermore , it underscores the pivotal roles of liquid biopsy , sequencing technologies , and digital pathology in biomarker discovery . Special attention is given to the predictive value of TLS , circulating biomarkers , and transcriptional signatures . The review concludes that the integration of multiple biomarkers holds promise for achieving more accurate efficacy predictions and optimizing personalized immunotherapy strategies . By providing a comprehensive overview of the current progress , this review offers valuable insights into biomarker-based precision medicine for NSCLC and outlines future research directions .
INTRODUCTION : The H9N2 avian influenza virus , although not highly pathogenic , still poses ongoing risks to poultry health and food security due to its ability to resist vaccines and its potential to spread to humans . METHODS : This study investigated the effects of baicalin , a flavonoid derived from Scutellaria baicalensis , on respiratory mucosal immunity during H9N2 infection . In vitro experiments were conducted using MLE-12 alveolar epithelial cells , and in vivo evaluations were performed in a mouse model of H9N2 infection . RESULTS : Baicalin treatment enhanced the expression of antiviral proteins Mx1 and PKR in a dose- and time-dependent manner , helping to counteract the virus ' s suppression of these defense proteins . In addition to strengthening this epithelial barrier , baicalin has both antiviral and immune-regulating effects : it directly blocks viral replication and helps restore the CD4+/CD8+ T cell ratio in H9N2-infected mice . Most importantly , baicalin reduces lung damage and spleen shrinkage while keeping the immune system balanced . These results show that baicalin enhances mucosal antiviral defenses by simultaneously regulating innate antiviral pathways ( Mx1 and PKR ) and restoring adaptive immune balance ( CD4+/CD8+ T-cell ratio ) . DISCUSSION : These dual protective effects highlight baicalin ' s potential as a natural therapeutic strategy for improving mucosal immunity against vaccine-resistant influenza viruses such as H9N2 , contributing valuable insights into plant-derived immunomodulatory approaches against emerging zoonotic viral threats .
This review explores recent advances in the characteristics and manufacturing of CAR T-cell products . Traditional potency assays have been designed based on well-established CAR T-cell functionalities . However , the advent of innovative tools and methodologies has revealed a broader spectrum of important CAR T-cell characteristics that correlate with function . Furthermore , as manufacturing strategies continue to evolve , conventional potency assays may no longer fully capture the complexity of these products . Therefore , it is essential to examine these emerging characteristics and manufacturing approaches and consider the development of tailored potency assays to ensure products are fully characterized .
BACKGROUND : Balanced translocations are common chromosomal structural abnormalities that usually do not involve a gain or loss of genetic material ; and carriers usually display normal phenotypes and intelligence . However , unbalanced rearranged gametes can be produced during the meiotic division of reproductive cells , leading to infertility , miscarriage , stillbirth , or the birth of newborns with malformations and chromosomal abnormalities . These adverse pregnancy outcomes create significant burdens for families and societies and affect the quality of life of newborns , threatening their health . OBJECTIVE : Individuals carrying balanced translocations can have phenotypically normal offspring , but they also face high risks of natural miscarriage and giving birth to newborns with chromosomal abnormalities . We characterized individual clinical features and conducted a genetic analysis of the members of a family with t ( 5 ; 9 ) ( p15 ; p24 ) balanced translocation leading to Cri-du-chat syndrome in the offspring . STUDY DESIGN : We performed a chromosomal karyotyping with high-resolution G-banding on the proband and her family members to detect their chromosomal configurations . We also used chromosomal microarray analyses ( CMA ) to detect copy number variants . Enrichment analysis of genes in the duplicated or deleted regions of 5p and 9p was performed using Metascape . Results : The proband ( III7 ) , her father ( II3 ) , her brother ( III5 ) , and her cousin ( III14 ) were all carriers of the t ( 5 ; 9 ) ( p15 ; p24 ) balanced translocation . Offspring ( IV5 , IV7 , IV9 , and IV12 ) were affected . Genetic microarray results of IV7 showed a 3 Mb deletion on chromosome five and a 3 Mb duplication on chromosome Genetic microarray results of IV5 , IV9 , and IV12 showed a 5 Mb duplication on chromosome five and a 4 Mb deletion on chromosome CONCLUSION : This study reports a rare familial balanced translocation pedigree , particularly noting that the offspring can suffer from Cri-du-chat syndrome , which suggests a potential new genetic model for this syndrome . It provides novel insights for genetic counseling and prenatal diagnosis in patients with adverse pregnancy outcomes before attempting another pregnancy .
Gene therapy is an approach that employs vectors to deliver genetic material to target cells , aiming to correct genes with pathogenic mutations and modulate one or more genes responsible for disease progression . It holds significant value for clinical applications and offers broad market potential due to the large patient population affected by various conditions . For instance , in 2023 , the Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) approved 55 new drugs , including five specifically for gene therapy targeting hematologic and rare diseases . Recently , with advancements in understanding the pathogenesis and development of neurodegenerative diseases ( NDDs ) , gene therapy has emerged as a promising avenue for treating Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , Huntington ' s disease ( HD ) , amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , and spinal muscular atrophy ( SMA ) , particularly in personalized medicine . Notably , the FDA has approved three clinical applications for combating SMA , utilizing viral vectors delivered via intravenous and intrathecal injections . However , gene therapy for other NDDs remains in clinical trials , necessitating improvements in viral vectors , exploration of new vectors , optimization of delivery routes , and further investigation into pathogenesis to identify novel targets . This review discusses recent advancements in gene therapy for NDDs , offering insights into developing new therapeutic strategies .
The emergence of COVID-19 necessitated the rapid development of vaccines . While highly effective at reducing severe disease and death , breakthrough infections remain a problem as the virus continues to mutate . To help address this issue , we show the utility of a multiplex immunoassay in measuring multiple aspects of the antibody response generated by SARS-CoV-2 vaccines . We use a multiplex immunoassay platform to measure spike-specific IgG concentration , avidity , and receptor-binding inhibition . In addition , we correlate results from an ACE-2 receptor-binding inhibition assay with corresponding data from a SARS-CoV-2 microneutralization assay to establish this inhibitory assay as a potential predictor of virus neutralization . We studied these antibody responses in SARS-CoV-2-naive and -convalescent vaccinees . Our results showed increased IgG concentrations , avidity , and inhibition following vaccination in both groups . We were also able to differentiate the immune response between the two groups using the multiplex immunoassay platform to look at antibody diversity . The receptor-binding inhibition assay has strong correlations with a cell-based pseudovirus neutralization assay as well as with WT SARS-CoV-2 Washington and Delta variant PRNT assays . This suggests that the inhibition assay may be able to simultaneously predict virus neutralization of different SARS-CoV-2 variants . Overall , we show that the developed custom multiplex immunoassay with several experimental variations is a powerful tool in assessing multiple aspects of the SARS-CoV-2 antibody response in vaccinated individuals . FAU - Odo , Troy
Meibomian gland dysfunction ( MGD ) is an ocular surface disease lacking optimal treatment strategy . The Hedgehog pathway is involved in regulating MGEC proliferation and differentiation . Catalpol ( CAT ) is the main active ingredient in Rehmannia glutinosa with therapeutic potential . Exploring the effects and biological mechanisms of CAT on meibomian gland epithelial cells ( MGECs ) . Primarily cultured rat MGECs were co-cultured with 3T3 cells for 7 days . MGECs were exposed to 5 , 5 , and 10 mmol/L CAT , 10 mug/mL Azithromycin ( AZM ) , and 6 mumol/L Smoothened receptor agonist ( SAG ) for 48 h . Colony formation assays , Cell counting kit-8 , Ki67 immunofluorescence , Nile red and Oil red O staining , and HSD LipidTOX Green kits were used to assess cell proliferation and lipid accumulation . Real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot analysis were used to measure gene expressions related to Hedgehog- and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) -gamma . This study successfully isolated primarily rat MGECs ( expressed P63 and K14 ) . AZM and 5 , and 10 mmol/L CAT inhibited colony number , cell viability , and Ki67 mean fluorescence intensity ( MFI ) , while they enhanced MFI of Nile red and LipidTOX Green , as well as increasing the ratio of Oil red O staining area . Additionally , transcription and translation levels of the Hedgehog pathway were significantly suppressed , meanwhile , PPAR-gamma and SREBP-1 expression were increased . Interestingly , SAG reversed the effects of 10 mmol/L CAT on MGECs . CAT suppresses MGEC proliferation and promotes lipid accumulation by inhibiting the Hedgehog signaling pathway . This study offers a potential therapeutic strategy for MGD . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1007/s10616-025-00769-
A jejunal gastrointestinal stromal tumor ( GIST ) is a rare malignant mesenchymal neoplasm of the gastrointestinal tract that arises from the interstitial cells of Cajal . Massive and recurrent bleeding due to jejunal GIST is a diagnostic challenge which may lead to delays in treatment . GISTs as the source of bleeding are already rare . This case is further characterized by endoscopic visualization and clipping of a site of bleeding before eventual surgical resection for recurrent bleeding .
The typically occurring malignant tumor in the head and neck is oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) , which is highly aggressive and invasive . Despite surgical advancements , radiation , and chemotherapy , the prognosis for OSCC is still poor . Chemotherapy ' s effectiveness is frequently restricted by its serious side effects and the development of resistance . In this study , a cisplatin ( CDDP ) -loaded magnetic targeting nanoplatform ( CDDP@PPy@FeO ) has been designed for synergistic chemo-photothermal therapy . PPy with carboxyl groups was first prepared by chemical oxidative polymerization . Then , FeO nanoparticles were synthesized in situ on its surface and loaded with CDDP through a reaction with the carboxyl groups . The CDDP@PPy@FeO nanocomposite serves not only as a nanocarrier for the targeted delivery of CDDP to alleviate the systemic toxicity of chemotherapy but also possesses excellent photothermal conversion properties , generating localized heat upon near-infrared laser irradiation that enables photothermal therapy . Contrary to using only chemotherapy or photothermal therapy , CDDP@PPy@FeO nanoparticles combined with NIR exposure exert superior anticancer effects against OSCC both in vivo and in vitro while exhibiting minimal side effects . Therefore , CDDP@PPy@FeO nanoparticles could be a promising candidate for nanomedicine in OSCC combination therapy .
This study explored the metabolites and bioactive potential of the ethyl acetate extract from a marine-derived fungal strain , Aspergillus oryzae NGM91 , isolated from Red Sea sediments . Chemical profiling through FT-IR , GC-MS , and HPLC analysis revealed a complex composition dominated by benzyl benzoate ( 99% ) and rosmarinic acid ( 15 mug ml ( -1 ) ) as major constituents . The fungal extract exhibited potent free radical scavenging activity ( DPPH IC = 26 ; ABTS IC = 91 mug ml ( -1 ) ) , with high total antioxidant capacity ( 57 mug per mg AAE ) and ferric reducing power ( 62 mug per mg AAE ) . It demonstrated selective COX inhibition ( COX-1 IC : 66 mug ml ( -1 ) ; COX-2 IC : 32 mug ml ( -1 ) ) . Cytotoxic screening showed significant activity against PC3 cells ( IC : 47 mug ml ( -1 ) ) , PANC-1 ( IC : 42 mug ml ( -1 ) ) , HepG2 ( IC : 36 mug ml ( -1 ) ) , and Caco-2 cells ( IC : 69 mug ml ( -1 ) ) , while exhibiting lower cytotoxicity towards normal Wi-38 fibroblasts ( IC : 31 mug ml ( -1 ) ) . In PC3 cells , the extract induced oxidative stress markers ( MDA : 63 mumol mg ( -1 ) ; NO : 13 mumole per mg ) , modulated antioxidant enzyme activities , upregulated antioxidant genes ( CAT : 1195% , SOD : 788% , GPx : 473% , GST : 251% ) , increased DNA damage ( 1% ) , activated apoptotic pathways via BCL-2 downregulation and BAX/P53/Caspase-3 upregulation , and induced G1 phase arrest ( 97% ) . These findings demonstrate A . oryzae NGM91 ' s therapeutic potential through oxidative stress-mediated DNA damage and apoptotic cell death induction in PC3 cancerous cells .
Fatty acids ( FA ) are normally considered a source of energy . However , some FA are essential nutrients with different biological functions , such as ligands for membrane and nuclear receptors ; upon binding , they modify cell function and transcript expression . The bioactive effects of the FA depend on the FA type and family ( i . e . , n-6 vs . n-3 ) . The FA effects on developmental programming have been studied in cattle and sheep , with some similarities in the outcomes between species . Feeding n-3 FA during late gestation improves offspring production performance ( i . e . , milk yield in dairy cows and growth in beef cattle and sheep ) compared with the offspring of dams supplemented with mono- and unsaturated FA or with offspring of dams with no FA supplementation . Also , there is a sexual dimorphism in the outcomes of n-3 FA supplementation , where the increase in growth due to n-3 FA seems to be more evident in males , but it might decrease growth in females . There are multiple assumptions as to how this physiological process occurs . Based on published literature , the developmental effect does not appear to be due to changes in hypothalamic regulations of DMI and energy expenditure or liver and adipose tissue functions . The changes in offspring growth can be attributed to changes in gastrointestinal tract physiology , changes in immune response , or both , probably due to epigenetic changes in those tissues . Feeding n-3 FA in late gestation to the pregnant dam increases expression of amino acid transporters ( mRNA and protein ) in the offspring ' s duodenum , associated with changes in DNA methylation . Regarding immune function , the increase in offspring performance has been associated with decreased haptoglobin after weaning in calves or increases in lipid mediators , such as resolvin-D1 at birth . Supplementation with n-3 FA during late gestation affects offspring growth ; changes in the offspring ' s gut and immune system biology can explain the sexual dysmorphism observed in changed body weight ; however , we are unaware which of these basic mechanisms is responsible for the observed changes in biology .
BACKGROUND : Age-related ovarian dysfunction , characterized by declining follicular reserve and hormonal imbalance , poses a significant challenge in reproductive endocrinology , severely compromising fertility and quality of life . Although acupuncture at conception vessel acupoints is an effective therapeutic approach for managing ovarian dysfunction , the biological underpinnings bridging peripheral stimulation to systemic endocrine regulation remain elusive . Emerging evidence has highlighted interstitial fluid ( ISF ) dynamics as a potential mediator of mechanotransduction . However , it remains to be elucidated whether ISF transport in the linea alba ( abdominal trajectory of conception vessel ) influences ovarian function , and whether acupuncture at conception vessel acupoints exerts its therapeutic effects through ISF-mediated substance transport along the linea alba . METHODS : We used fluorescence imaging to observe ISF migration patterns in the linea alba of rats , where conception vessel acupoints are located . In addition , we investigated the ovarian functional changes post-ISF obstruction and evaluated the therapeutic effects of acupuncture on ovarian dysfunction in aged rats , both in unblocked and ISF-blockade conditions . RESULTS : Fluorescence imaging revealed ISF transport along the linea alba , with tracers migrating linearly , a pattern abolished by surgical blockade . Abnormal ISF transport in the linea alba may affect the homeostasis of reproductive hormone levels . Serum follicle-stimulating and luteinizing hormones increased while E decreased , accompanied by follicular depletion and hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis dysregulation . Acupuncture at CV4 attenuated ovarian aging , elevating developmental follicle counts , reducing granulosa cell apoptosis , and restoring hypothalamic-pituitary-ovarian axis function . Crucially , these therapeutic benefits were nullified under ISF blockade conditions . CONCLUSION : Our results suggest that ISF transport in the linea alba may serve as an important mechanistic pathway bridging acupuncture stimulation to ovarian regulation . Our study not only provides a mechanistic basis for the clinical efficacy of acupuncture in treating ovarian disorders but also identifies ISF dynamics as a novel therapeutic target in age-related ovarian dysfunction .
AIM : Endometriosis is characterized by immune evasion and progressive inflammation . This study aimed to identify key genes related to immune and inflammation in endometriosis . METHODS : Differentially expressed genes between patients with and without endometriosis were identified from the GEO database . Furthermore , immune- and inflammation-related genes ( IRGs ) were identified by intersecting the differentially expressed genes with known immune and inflammatory genes . Functional analyses of the GO and KEGG pathways of these genes were performed . Subsequently , three machine learning models-LASSO regression , SVM-RFE , and Boruta-were conducted to identify the potential key genes in endometriosis . Finally , the expressions of key genes in endometriosis were verified in two validation cohorts using an online database and qRT-PCR , and their immunoregulatory properties were verified . RESULTS : A total of 13 differentially expressed IRGs were identified . Using machine learning algorithms , five key genes were selected in the endometriosis : BST2 , IL4R , INHBA , PTGER2 , and MET . Furthermore , the three hub genes exhibited consistent trends across both training and validation datasets . The three keys also correlated with infiltrated immune cells , checkpoint genes , and immune factors in various degrees . Finally , validation analysis using the online database and qRT-PCR confirmed that MET expression aligned with outcomes from both training and validation datasets . CONCLUSION : Three immune- and inflammation-related genes were identified as potential biomarkers of endometriosis , providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying immune function in endometriosis . The immune-related function of MET , particularly its correlation with NK cell activity in endometriosis , will be the focus of future studies .
BACKGROUND : Insulinomas , the most common functional pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors , cause hypoglycemia due to excessive insulin production , leading to severe clinical symptoms like coma or death . Resection surgery is the major curative treatment , but preoperative localization is challenging due to their small size . Traditional imaging methods like computed tomography ( CT ) and magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) often fail to detect tumors , while more invasive procedures like endoscopic ultrasound tissue acquisition ( EUS-TA ) and the selective arterial calcium stimulation test ( SACST ) , though informative , depend heavily on operator skill and may not always provide conclusive results . There is an urgent need for non-invasive , sensitive localization methods for insulinomas . Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor ( GLP-1R ) targeted PET imaging has emerged as a promising tool . We present a clinical case where [F] FB ( ePEG12 ) 12-exendin-4 positron emission tomography/CT ( F-exendin-4 PET/CT ) successfully detected insulinoma , unachievable by conventional imaging , underscoring its potential in guiding minimally invasive surgery . CASE DESCRIPTION : A 67-year-old female developed hyperinsulinemic hypoglycemia but could not undergo surgery as conventional imaging methods failed to localize the insulinoma . She was managed with diazoxide for six years , but her symptoms worsened . At 73 , she was referred to our hospital . CT , MRI , endoscopic ultrasound , and SACST failed to detect the tumor in any artery . However , F-exendin-4 PET/CT revealed a nodule with uptake in the dorsal pancreas , suspected to be the culprit lesion . The patient underwent surgery , and although the tumor appeared discontinuous with the pancreas macroscopically , histopathology confirmed it was microscopically continuous , identifying it as a primary pancreatic insulinoma . Post-surgery , she achieved complete remission of symptoms and fully recovered . DISCUSSION : This case demonstrates the utility of F-exendin-4 PET/CT , a novel GLP-1 receptor-targeted imaging technique , in accurately localizing an occult insulinoma even with negative findings of SACST , enabling minimally invasive curative surgery . CONCLUSION : The F-exendin-4 PET/CT successfully localized an insulinoma undetectable by other methods , enabling minimally invasive curative resection . This technique offers a valuable diagnostic option for enabling minimally invasive surgery in occult insulinoma cases .
This review explores the non-invasive applications of Raman spectroscopy in assisted reproductive technology ( ART ) . Raman spectroscopy , a powerful tool for analyzing biological samples , has shown great potential in enhancing ART outcomes through various applications such as sperm quality assessment , oocyte evaluation , and embryo selection . The non-destructive nature and high specificity of this technique enable detailed biochemical analysis at the cellular level , offering valuable insights into cellular processes without harming for the samples . The review highlights recent advancements and studies demonstrating the efficacy of Raman spectroscopy in improving the selection criteria for gametes and embryos , ultimately contributing to higher success rates in ART . Future perspectives on integrating Raman spectroscopy with other technologies to further enhance its applicability in reproductive medicine are also discussed .
Osteoarthritis ( OA ) , the most prevalent joint disorder associated with aging , is characterized by impaired extracellular matrix ( ECM ) synthesis and the degradation of articular cartilage . It is influenced by various factors , including aging and mechanical stress ( such as traumatic injury ) . Increasing evidence suggests that alterations in cartilage stiffness occur during OA progression , particularly at its onset . This review comprehensively examines how aging and mechanical stress contribute to ECM stiffening , a precursor to irreversible cartilage degradation . We also discuss how increased matrix stiffness disrupts the homeostatic balance between chondrocyte catabolism and anabolism and the mechanotransduction pathways involved in cartilage stiffening . Furthermore , the potential of cartilage engineering to target the stiffness of synthetic materials is explored as a promising approach to advancing cartilage repair and regeneration in OA . A deeper understanding of this research area may not only lead to more innovative strategies for early OA detection and diagnosis but also offer novel insights into OA treatment and prognosis .
BACKGROUND : In recent years , neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( NACT ) has become an increasingly important treatment for triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) . As the most immunogenic subtype of breast cancer , it is imperative to comprehensively study the immune microenvironment of TNBC and the effects of NACT on it . Our study aims to address this need and provide valuable insights for the development of effective postoperative adjuvant treatment strategies . METHODS : Samples were taken prior to and following NACT with docetaxel , epirubicin , and cyclophosphamide ( TEC ) from 71 TNBC patients who were included in this trial . We examined the clinicopathological alterations in patients before and after NACT treatment , assessed the impact of stromal tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes ( sTILs ) and immune biomarkers [CD8 , CD4 , CD3 , FOXP3 , CD20 , CD163 , programmed cell death ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) ] on the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy , and identified changes in NACT-induced immune subsets and specific immune biomarkers . RESULTS : Our study revealed that tumor size , histological grade , Ki-67 status , and sTILs content in baseline clinical features , as well as CD3 , CD4 , and CD8 content before NACT , showed significant differences between pathological complete response ( pCR ) and non-pCR patients ( P<05 ) . The expression of sTILs and PD-L1 in residual lesions after NACT was found to be higher than before NACT . Univariate analysis indicated that the levels of sTILs , CD3 , CD4 , and CD8 immune subsets before NACT were correlated with pCR . Importantly , multivariate regression analysis demonstrated that sTILs and CD8 immune subsets before NACT served as independent predictors of TNBC neoadjuvant therapy ( P<05 ) , providing crucial insights into the individualized management of TNBC . CONCLUSIONS : The findings of this study suggest that increasing sTILs and CD8 can significantly enhance the neoadjuvant efficacy of TNBC . Furthermore , the addition of CD3 and CD8 immune subsets can substantially improve the efficacy of TNBC neoadjuvant prediction . The detection of relevant immune markers after neoadjuvant therapy holds great promise in providing more comprehensive and accurate prognostic and therapeutic information for TNBC patients .
[This corrects the article DOI : 21037/gs-21-] .
Breast cancer remains a global health challenge , requiring innovative strategies for early detection , diagnosis , treatment monitoring , and recurrence detection . Liquid biopsy-leveraging circulating tumor cells ( CTCs ) , circulating tumor DNA ( ctDNA ) , microRNAs ( miRNAs ) , exosomes , immune-based biomarkers , and tumor-educated platelets ( TEPs ) -has emerged as a promising tool to address these needs . CTCs and ctDNA provide critical insights into tumor heterogeneity , therapeutic targets , and resistance mechanisms , while miRNAs , exosomes , and other non-CTC-based markers reflect the tumor microenvironment and offer potential biomarkers for disease progression . Importantly , liquid biopsy offers distinct advantages in early detection and precise diagnosis , as well as in identifying therapeutic resistance in real time , allowing clinicians to adapt treatment strategies effectively . The non-invasive nature of liquid biopsy further enables real-time tumor monitoring , paving the way for personalized treatment approaches . However , several challenges hinder its routine clinical adoption , including technical complexity , economic constraints , and variations in detection sensitivity due to low biomarker abundance . Additionally , a lack of standardization in methodology and interpretation limits its widespread application . Rigorous standardization and clinical validation are essential to address these barriers , ensuring equitable access across diverse healthcare settings and transforming breast cancer care for millions worldwide . Future directions include integrating artificial intelligence and multi-omic approaches to enhance diagnostic accuracy and clinical utility .
We report the case of a 58-year-old male with metachronous renal tumors and a solitary kidney who had previously undergone an open right radical nephrectomy with extended lymphadenectomy for an invasive renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) ( pT3a N0M0 ) in November In May 2022 , during routine surveillance , a left lower pole lesion measuring 5 x 2 x 6 cm was detected , and the patient was submitted to robot-assisted partial nephrectomy ( RAPN ) . The histopathological study confirmed the presence of a pT1a Fuhrman grade 3 clear cell renal carcinoma . In October 2024 , follow-up imaging revealed a new upper pole lesion measuring 4 x 3 x 3 cm in the left kidney . The patient was submitted to a novel robot-assisted partial nephrectomy , which was successfully completed using selective clamping of the renal artery . The clamping time was 28 minutes ( versus 17 minutes during the initial procedure ) , and the estimated blood loss increased to approximately 300 mL compared to about 100 mL previously , with a console time of 98 minutes . The patient was discharged after the second surgery in good functional status . The final pathology revealed clear cell RCC , Fuhrman grade 2/nucleolar grade 2 ( WHO/ISUP 2016 ) , and pT1a , with negative margins . Despite increased technical challenges during reoperation , postoperative renal function remained stable , underscoring the feasibility of repeat RAPN in a solitary kidney .
Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma ( NHL ) arising from the ear , nose , and throat ( ENT ) region presents unique challenges with regard to diagnosis and treatment . This study investigated the clinical characteristics , prognostic factors , and relapse patterns in patients with NHL originating from lymph nodes ( nodal NHL ) or other extranodal structures , aiming to identify factors associated with relapse between these two groups . This prospective cohort study included 50 patients diagnosed with NHL in the ENT region at a tertiary hospital in South-Western Romania between 2019 and Patients were categorized as having nodal or extranodal disease based on histopathological examination and were followed for three years to assess disease evolution , including relapse . Cox proportional hazards regression analysis was employed to identify factors associated with relapse-free survival . Extranodal NHL was associated with a significantly higher prevalence of multiple-site involvement compared to nodal NHL ( 3% vs . 30% , P = 021 ) . While a trend towards increased relapse was observed in extranodal NHL , this was not statistically significant ( P = 125 ) . The presence of disseminated disease ( HR = 295 ; P < 001 ) and undergoing only a biopsy ( compared to total excision , HR = 301 ; P = 027 ) were identified as independent predictors of relapse . Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated significantly different relapse-free survival patterns among groups stratified by NHL localization and dissemination status ( P < 001 ) . The extent of surgical intervention is a crucial factor influencing relapse risk in ENT NHL , with total excision associated with a lower hazard of relapse . At the same time , extranodal involvement may indicate a more aggressive disease course , particularly when combined with dissemination . However , larger studies with longer follow-ups are needed to validate these findings and refine treatment strategies , especially in regions with limited access to healthcare and screening programs .
This review consolidates recent evidence on managing renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) in patients with solitary kidneys . It provides a comprehensive discussion of evolving strategies in partial nephrectomy-including open , laparoscopic , and particularly robot-assisted partial nephrectomy ( RAPN ) -along with thermal and advanced ablative therapies , non-surgical options ( such as stereotactic ablative body radiotherapy [SABR] and active surveillance [AS] ) , and emerging neoadjuvant systemic treatments with tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( TKIs ) and immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) . In addition , the integration of artificial intelligence ( AI ) for preoperative planning , intraoperative guidance , and postoperative outcome prediction is discussed . Given the limited renal reserve in these patients , preserving functional renal parenchyma is paramount . This multidisciplinary review synthesizes evidence from 2018 to the present and is supported by 70 contemporary references .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) is the most common solid-organ malignancy in Western countries , and upper tract urothelial carcinoma ( UTUC ) is the most common malignancy in Asian countries . The management of RCC/UTUC in kidney transplant recipients is complex and clinically challenging due to post-transplant modifications associated with immunosuppressive treatment . This retrospective study evaluated the incidence , risk factors , treatment outcomes , and oncological implications of RCC and UTUC in kidney transplant recipients from 2008 to Data were collected from clinical records , and follow-up calls for 20 patients diagnosed with RCC and UTUC among 2 , 283 kidney transplant recipients , revealing an incidence rate of 78% for RCC ( 18 patients ) and 087% ( two patients ) for UTUC . Most patients presented localized disease at diagnosis . Surgical interventions included radical nephrectomy for the native kidney ' s RCC , radical or partial nephrectomy for allograft RCC , and radical nephroureterectomy for UTUC in the native kidney and allograft . Oncological outcomes indicated a mean follow-up of 29 months , during which five patients ( 25% ) developed metastases , which achieved prolonged survival through surgical management , adjuvant therapy , and immunosuppression adjustments . The study highlights the increased cancer risk in this population and underscores the necessity for established screening protocols and individualized treatment strategies to optimize patient outcomes while preserving kidney function . These findings contribute to the ongoing research on managing malignancies in transplant recipients , with implications for further research and clinical guidelines .
BACKGROUND : Although DAH in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation recipients is commonly treated with systemic corticosteroids , the efficacy of steroid therapy on DAH with respiratory failure in hematologic malignancy patients has not been studied . We aimed to investigate the effectiveness of steroid therapy in hematologic malignancy patients who developed DAH with respiratory failure and required treatment in the intensive care unit ( ICU ) . METHODS : Among DAH patients with leukemia , lymphoma , or multiple myeloma , those who were not admitted to the ICU were excluded . Included patients were classified into the steroid or control group according to steroid therapy . Patient data were retrospectively collected from electrical medical records . The primary outcome was ICU mortality . RESULTS : A total of 44 patients ( steroid group , n = 32 ; control group , n = 12 ) were included . At the DAH diagnosis , the steroid group was less likely to have a history of previously treated solid malignancy ( 3% vs 25% ; P = 025 ) compared to the control group . ICU mortality in the steroid group was not significantly different from that in the control group ( 66% vs 67% ; P = 948 ) . Only in the steroid group , the ratio of arterial oxygen partial pressure to fractional inspired oxygen was significantly improved after 2 days from the DAH diagnosis ( 151 +/- 64 vs 120 +/- 38 mm Hg ; P = 039 ) . CONCLUSION : Hematologic malignancy patients who developed DAH with respiratory failure and were admitted to the ICU had high mortality , irrespective of steroid therapy .
To improve the treatment outcomes for large bone defects and osteoporosis , researchers have been committed to reducing bone loss and accelerating bone regeneration through cell transplantation , biomaterial intervention , and biophysical stimulation over the past few decades . Magnetism , as a noninvasive biophysical stimulus , has been employed in the repair of the musculoskeletal system , achieving a series of promising results . In this review , we provide a retrospective analysis and perspective of research on magnetic-driven bone regeneration and functional reconstruction . This review aims to delineate safe and efficient magnetic application modalities and to summarize the potential mechanisms by which magnetism regulates the behavior of skeletal lineage cells , thereby providing insights for the expansion and translational application of magnetic-driven regenerative medicine .
It has been demonstrated that glutamine is a key player in boosting endothelial cell ( EC ) proliferation . However , despite its importance , the role of endothelial glutaminolysis in diabetes remains largely unexplored . Our research aimed to investigate the function of glutaminolysis in ECs within the context of diabetes and to evaluate the potential therapeutic effects of salvianolic acid B ( SalB ) and alpha-ketoglutarate ( alpha-KG ) on diabetic vascular complications . Histological analysis of skin wounds in diabetic patients revealed delayed restoration of vascularization and collagen synthesis during wound healing , accompanied by decreased glutaminase 1 ( GLS1 ) expression and reduced colocalization with the EC marker platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 ( CD31 ) . Additionally , a significant decline in GLS1 activity and expression was observed in ECs isolated from diabetic hearts . In vitro studies using cultured ECs demonstrated that exposure to high glucose and high fat ( HGHF ) reduced GLS1 expression and suppressed glutaminolysis , impairing EC proliferation and tube formation . These adverse effects were mitigated by treatment with SalB or supplementation with alpha-KG plus nonessential amino acids ( NEAAs ) . Among diabetic mice subjected to myocardial ischemia/reperfusion ( MI/R ) , SalB administration or alpha-KG supplementation promoted myocardial revascularization and improved cardiac dysfunction . Notably , endothelial-specific GLS1 deletion in mice blocked the beneficial effects afforded by SalB but not those afforded by alpha-KG . Furthermore , SalB administration accelerated angiogenesis and cutaneous wound healing in diabetic mice , and these influences were removed by pharmacological inhibition of GLS1 using bis-2- ( 5-phenylacetamido-1 , 3 , 4-thiadiazol-2-yl ) ethyl sulfide ( BPTES ) or genetic deletion of endothelial GLS These findings indicate that defective endothelial glutaminolysis contributes to impaired angiogenesis and poor ischemic tissue repair in diabetes . Improving endothelial glutaminolysis by treatment with SalB or metabolic supplementation with alpha-KG promotes angiogenesis and ischemic tissue repair in diabetic mice , emphasizing the possibility of GLS1 as a treatment target .
Autoimmune kidney diseases ( AIKDs ) depict a range of disorders involving immune-mediated damage to the kidneys , where conventional biologic therapies involving monoclonal antibodies often prove insufficient because of persistent autoreactive B cell reservoirs in lymphoid organs and inflammatory tissues . The appearance of chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) -T cell therapies targeting B cells has shown transformative potential , with recent clinical trials showing the remarkable efficacy of anti-CD19 CAR-T cells in achieving profound B cell depletion , reducing immune complex deposition , and ameliorating renal inflammation in AIKDs . While these results highlight the potential of CAR-T cell therapy in facilitating immune reset and overcoming treatment resistance , further clinical investigations are imperative to establish its long-term safety and sustained therapeutic benefits . This review synthesizes current evidence on CAR-T cell applications in AIKDs , discusses critical considerations for clinical translation , identifies existing limitations and challenges , and proposes strategic directions for therapeutic optimization and advancement .
Leucine-rich repeat-containing G-protein coupled receptor 5 ( LGR5 ) , a transcriptional target gene of the Wnt signalling pathway , is overexpressed in multiple cancers , including colorectal cancer ( CRC ) , hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) and pre-B acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( pre-B ALL ) and has emerged as a promising therapeutic target . Here , we reflect on the bottom-up development of a novel alpha-LGR5 therapeutic antibody we have recently reported , into a palette of LGR5-targeting immunotherapeutic modalities : antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) , bispecific T cell engagers ( bispecific engagers ) , and chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T cells . The alpha-LGR5 antibody is highly specific and accurately detects LGR5 protein expression levels , enabling its use as a prognostic biomarker for identifying LGR5 ( + ) tumour types . Preclinical studies road-testing the various alpha-LGR5-based modalities established potent and safe elimination of LGR5-expressing cancer cells in vitro and efficacy in a mouse model of human cancer in vivo . In this review , we discuss the utility of our antibody as the building block for a novel set of immunotherapeutics and highlight the importance of matching specific alpha-LGR5-based therapeutic modalities to individual tumour type and patient characteristics .
Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ECMO ) is a form of life support for critically ill patients with severe respiratory or cardiac failure . Interactions between patient blood and ECMO biomaterials increase the risk of thrombosis , necessitating concurrent anticoagulation treatment , with the standard of care being heparin . However , hemostatic complications such as thrombosis and bleeding remain prevalent . Activated factor XII ( FXIIa ) inhibitors are selective anticoagulants and offer a potential alternative to heparin . We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of IMB-F12 , a cyclotide-based FXIIa inhibitor , in human blood using an ex vivo ECMO model . Ten circuits were randomly allocated to heparin or IMB-F12 and ran for 6 h . Primary hemostasis was assessed by full blood cell count , aggregometry , flow cytometry , and von Willebrand factor multimer analysis ; secondary hemostasis by activated clotting time ( ACT ) , rotational thromboelastometry ( ROTEM ) , prothrombin time , and activated partial thromboplastin time . All circuits ran successfully for 6 h with stable oxygenator resistance ( pressure drop , flow ) . ACT was higher in the IMB-F12 group than in the heparin group ( p = 008 ) . Significant differences were observed between ROTEM INTEM and HEPTEM in both IMB-F12 ( clotting time ( CT ) p = 001 , clot formation time ( CFT ) = 0004 , maximum clot firmness ( MCF ) p = 03 ) and heparin ( CT p = 01 , CFT = 004 , MCF p = 02 ) groups . Collagen- and thrombin receptor activating peptide ( TRAP ) -induced platelet aggregation were better preserved in the IMB-F12 group ( p = 004 and 005 , respectively ) . In conclusion , IMB-F12 provides an effective alternative to heparin anticoagulation with an improved preservation of collagen- and TRAP-induced platelet aggregation in an ex vivo model .
Feline leukemia virus ( FeLV ) is an oncogenic immunosuppressive virus belonging to the Retroviridae family and one of the most common causes of a major infectious disorder in cats that can lead to potentially fatal associated diseases with a worse prognosis . FeLV infects and replicates in hematopoietic and lymphatic cells causing anemia , lymphoma , and leukemia . Diagnosis is usually performed by clinicians using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) or lateral flow tests that detect the p27 FeLV antigen . The aim of this work was the development of the FeLVCHECK Ag ELISA , a new rapid direct sandwich ELISA assay that detects the p27 antigen of FeLV . Assay cut-off was estimated by multiple approaches , including the Youden index and the ROC curve , to obtain the optimal test performance . The new test was validated by using 112 feline sera ( 42 positives and 70 negatives for FeLV ) against the ViraCHEK/FeLV ELISA ( Zoetis ) as a reference , which agreed at 3% , with 6% sensitivity ( 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 0%-9% ) and 1% specificity ( 95% CI : 1%-5% ) . Compared with another rapid and direct ELISA , the INgezim FeLV DAS ( Gold Standard Diagnostics ) , the agreement was 2% . The new ELISA is both accurate and precise , with intra and inter-assay coefficients of variation ( CV ) below 10% . Accelerated and real-time stability studies set the shelf life of the kit at 18 months . This study clearly suggests that the FeLVCHECK Ag ELISA can be a valuable tool in clinical practice , as it provides very rapid and reliable results without the need for sample preparation or particular laboratory equipment since all incubations are performed at room temperature .
INTRODUCTION : Astragali Radix ( AR ) - Curcumae Rhizoma ( vinegar processed , CR ) herb pair was recorded in ' YIXUE ZHONGZHONG CANXILU ' to treat colitis-associated colorectal cancer ( CAC ) . Hedysari Radix ( HR ) was categorized under the AR entry in ' SHENNONG BENCAO JING ' . HR is still an alternative to AR paired with CR clinically in northwest China . Hedysari Radix Praeparata Cum Melle ( HRPCM ) is a product that HR fries with honey to enhance the therapeutic effect . However , the mechanism of HRPCM paired with CR ( HRCR ) in CAC needs to be further elucidated . METHODS : HRCR-MIAS were prepared using the eversion intestinal sac method . UHPLC Q-Exactive-MS investigated the compositions in HRCR-MIAS . Then , the mechanism of HRCR in CAC mice was predicted based on network pharmacology analysis in combination with the compositions in HRCR-MIAS . The pharmacodynamic effects of HRCR-MIAS for SW620 colon cancer cells were invested in vitro . The efficacies of HRCR low- , middle- , and high-dose groups ( HRCR-L , 413 g/kg ; HRCR-M , 825 g/kg ; HRCR-H , 650 g/kg ) in CAC mice were explored . Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kits were employed to assay The inflammatory factors levels , like IL-1beta , IL-6 , IL-10 , and TNF-alpha in serum . The expressions of the intestinal permeability proteins , such as Claudin-1 , Occludin , and ZO-1 , were detected via immunohistochemical ( IHC ) analysis . Finally , the predicted signalling was verified by Western blot ( WB ) . RESULTS : 855 common components were identified in HRCR and HRCR-MIAS , and 25 specific components in HRCR-MIAS were pointed out . Based on network pharmacology analysis , the inflammatory response and the cross-linked MAPK signalling and NF-kB signalling were predicted to be the main reasons for HRCR in CAC . HRCR-MIAS inhibited the proliferation , induced apoptosis , regulated the cell cycle progression , and restrained the SW620 cells ' ability to migrate and invade in vitro . The outcomes of the WB experiment exhibited that HRCR-MIAS inhibited the expression of key proteins such as MEKK1 , RAS , ERK , IKB and NF-kB in the MAPK/NF-kB signalling pathway of SW620 cells . The study in vivo found that the different doses of HRCR recovered the loss of body weight , the shortened colon length , the increased tumour counts , the abnormal changes in spleen and thymus indices , the colonic lesions , the unbalanced inflammatory factors levels like IL-10 , IL-6 , IL-1beta , and TNF-alpha in serum , and the down-regulated intestinal permeability proteins such as Claudin-1 , Occludin , and ZO- Experimental validation by WB confirmed that HRCR inhibited the expression of the key proteins , including MEKK1 RAS , ERK , IKB , and NF-kB , in the MAPK/NF-kB signalling in CAC mice . DISCUSSION : HRCR not only suppresses the process of colonic inflammation and improves intestinal permeability but also relieves CAC by inhibiting the activated MAPK/NF-kB signalling cascade to alleviate CAC .
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) is a key target for metabolic disorders that contribute to obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) . However , full agonists such as thiazolidinediones ( TZDs ) have limitations in terms of side effects . Selective PPARgamma modulators ( SPPARgammaMs ) that target alternative binding pockets offer the potential for safer partial agonists . Here , we employed six computational algorithms ( Fpocket , DeepSite , CavityPlus , DoGSiteScorer , CASTpFold , POCASA ) to identify a novel allosteric pocket ( pocket 6-5 ) in the PPARgamma ligand-binding domain ( LBD ) , localized at the helix 3 ( H3 ) , helix 2 ( H2 ) , helix 2 ' ( H2 ' ) , and beta-sheet interface . A virtual screening of 4 , 097 natural compounds from traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM ) libraries was conducted , which led to the identification of ginsenoside Rg5 ( TWSZ-5 ) as a top hit . Molecular docking and molecular dynamics ( MD ) dynamics revealed TWSZ-5 stabilizes pocket 6-5 through hydrogen bonds with Ser342 , Gln345 , Lys261 , and Lys TWSZ-5 promoted beige adipocyte differentiation in adipose-derived stem cells ( ADSCs ) in vitro , upregulating Ucp1 , Prdm16 , Cpt1alpha , and Pgc1alpha . The present study identifies TWSZ-5 as a novel SPPARgammaM that utilizes an allosteric binding pocket to enhance thermogenesis while mitigating adverse effects . These findings emphasize the potential of TCM derivatives and structure-based screening strategies to develop safer antidiabetic therapies with precision pharmacology .
Bacteriophages ( phages ) have emerged as promising agents for combating bacterial pathogens , including nontyphoidal Salmonella enterica ( S . enterica ) , the most common foodborne pathogen worldwide . The emergence of antimicrobial-resistant ( AMR ) S . enterica poses a severe healthcare issue . Nowadays , many countries worldwide have banned antibiotics for animal feeds or additives , and various strategies have been developed and gained popularity for their potential to address S . enterica infection . Among these strategies , phage therapy shows more promise because of its ability to specifically target bacterial pathogens without disrupting the beneficial microbiota or animal/human cells . Phages are viruses that rupture host cells through the lysis of phage-encoded endolysin proteins . Nonetheless , phages also face various challenges , including phage resistance , gene transduction , serovar diversity , and the immune response of animal/human organisms , which limit the efficacy of S . enterica . Due to this limitation of phages , endolysin , as a lytic protein for bacterial cells derived from phages , has been demonstrated as another promising solution against various bacterial pathogens , including AMR . This review is aimed at discussing the benefits and limitations of phage therapies and exploring the promising potential of phage-encoded endolysins in controlling S . enterica .
Marine endophytic fungi serve as a valuable source of bioactive molecules , with growing applications in enzyme production . This study investigates the therapeutic potential of glutaminase- and urease-free Type II L-asparaginase derived from the mangrove endophyte Penicillium citrinum MEF 455 against neoplastic cells . Extracellular L-asparaginase production was done using Czapek Dox broth amended with L-asparagine and a 66 kDa molecular mass asparaginase could be observed . The specific activity of 6 U/mg with 8-fold purification was attained using DEAE cellulose and Sephacryl S-200 column . The kinetic study showed that the Km , Vmax ( , ) and Kcat were 370 mM , 29 U/mL/min , and 69/min , respectively . Purified L-asparaginase displayed optimal activity at 40 degrees C and pH 8 , with a substrate concentration of 5 mM L-asparagine . Metallic ions like Na ( + ) , K ( + ) , Mg ( 2+ ) , Co ( 2+ ) , and Li ( + ) , improved asparaginase activity . The enzyme displayed strong anticancer potential with considerable reduction in the growth of HL-60 , and NCI-H 460 cells with IC values of 37 +/- 225 U/mL and 39 +/- 176 U/mL , respectively . Major cancer-controlling genes i . e . p53 , caspase-3 , caspase-9 , NF-kB , Bax , and Rb1 were up-regulated . In contrast , anti-apoptotic i . e . Cox-2 and Bcl-2 were down-regulated on asparaginase treatment in Human cancer cell lines HL-60 and NCI-H The experimental study demonstrates that Type II L-asparaginase produced from an endophytic fungal source , P . citrinum MEF 455 , was free from glutaminase and urease activity , thereby minimizing associated immunogenic complications . In general , understanding the physicochemical properties and functionality of the enzyme highlights its potential as a promising antitumor candidate for therapeutic development and clinical applications .
[This corrects the article DOI : 1093/rb/rbac] .
BACKGROUND : With the popularization of assisted reproductive technology ( ART ) , the question of whether ART increases the risk of malignancy in offspring has received increasing attention . Although many studies have explored the relationship between ART use and malignancy in offspring , the results remain controversial . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Two authors used the Embase , Web of Science , PubMed , and the Cochrane Library databases to conduct a systematic search of published studies on the effects of ART on the risk of malignancy in offspring . Odds ratios ( OR ) and 95% confidence intervals were used for the analysis . RESULTS : Twenty cohort and four case-control studies were included in this review . ART did not increase the risk of overall malignancy in the offspring ( OR , 04 ) compared with natural pregnancy ( NP ) . However , the subgroup analysis showed that the offspring in the ART group had a higher risk of leukemia ( OR , 24 ) , soft tissue tumors ( OR , 35 ) , hepatic tumors ( OR , 10 ) , and epithelial tumors and melanoma ( OR , 50 ) . The risks of lymphoma , retinoblastoma , central nervous system tumors , neuroblastoma , renal tumors , germ cell and gonad tumors , and embryonic tumors did not differ between the ART and NP groups . Subgroup analysis based on ART type showed that in vitro fertilization , intracytoplasmic sperm injection , frozen embryo transfer , and intrauterine insemination or ovulation did not increase the risk of overall malignancy compared to the NP group . CONCLUSIONS : ART may not be associated with the risk of overall malignancy in offspring . However , we found that ART may be associated with an increased risk of leukemia , soft tissue tumors , hepatic tumors , epithelial tumors , and melanoma .
Aims/Background Pneumonia is a complex condition with rapid progression , often leading to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome ( MODS ) , which significantly impacts patient quality of life and prognosis . This study aims to identify risk factors closely associated with the development of MODS by conducting a retrospective analysis of clinical data from 150 patients with pneumonia , providing insights for informing the prevention and treatment of pneumonia . Methods We recruited 150 patients with pneumonia admitted to Huzhou Third Municipal Hospital , the Affiliated Hospital of Huzhou University between 2019 and The patients were divided into two groups according to whether they had developed MODS : the non-MODS group ( n = 100 ) and the MODS group ( n = 50 ) . Patients ' data , such as their demographic information , clinical characteristics , laboratory test results , treatment course and outcomes , were collected . Logistic regression analysis was conducted to determine the independent predictors of MODS occurrence . Results After propensity score matching , the baseline data of the two groups of patients presented no significant difference ( p > 05 ) . The predominant clinical and laboratory manifestations of both groups of patients were fever , cough , decreased arterial partial pressure of oxygen ( PaO ) , as well as elevated white blood cell ( WBC ) count , C-reactive protein ( CRP ) level , and procalcitonin ( PCT ) level , but inter-group differences in these metrics were not statistically significant ( p > 05 ) . However , the clinical manifestation of dyspnea was significantly more prevalent in the MODS group ( p < 01 ) . The MODS group also had a significantly higher likelihood of receiving mechanical ventilation and renal replacement therapy ( p < 001 ) , as well as experiencing respiratory failure , cardiac failure , and death ( p < 01 ) . Univariate analysis indicated that factors including age >/=65 years , WBC count >/=15 x 10/L , PCT >/=2 ng/mL , PaO </=60 mmHg , arterial partial pressure of carbon dioxide ( PaCO ) >/=50 mmHg , severe pneumonia , and dyspnea were associated with a significantly increased risk of MODS ( p < 05 ) . These factors , except for the PCT , were validated as independent risk factors for MODS in the multivariate logistic regression analysis ( p < 05 ) . Conclusion Age >/=65 years , WBC count >/=15 x 10/L , PaO </=60 mmHg , PaCO >/=50 mmHg , severe pneumonia , and dyspnea are independent risk factors for developing MODS in patients with pneumonia . Patients with MODS presenting respiratory failure as the main manifestation have a high mortality rate , and timely mechanical ventilation and supportive treatment are essential to improve the prognosis . FAU - Zhou , Jie
Venous thromboembolism ( VTE ) , which includes pulmonary embolism ( PE ) and deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) , is a serious vascular disease that ranks third in cardiovascular-related deaths . Inflammation along with neutrophil extracellular traps ( NETs ) play a key role in the pathophysiology of VTE . This review focuses on articles that that evaluate the role of NETs in the development of VTE and their potential as therapeutic targets . Research has demonstrated that when NETs become overactivated , they take part in thrombotic activities , which is the opposite of their defensive functions under healthy conditions . When endothelial cells are activated , neutrophils are recruited very early , releasing NETs and initiating a thrombotic process . NETs promote thrombosis by directly activating factor XII ( FXII ) , ultimately triggering platelet recruitment , and initiating the intrinsic coagulant pathway . Subsequently , monocytes and factors such as tissue factor join the process , further increasing NET formation , the inflammatory reactions and progression of venous thrombus . NETs play a crucial part in the intricate interaction between inflammation and thrombosis , where each triggers the other . High levels of NETs also correlate with the severity of VTE . These properties of NETs make them potential therapeutic targets for VTE prevention and treatment . This article aims to describe NETs , their occurrence , and how they relate to VTE . Taking into account what is now known , the function of NETs as targets for treatment in VTE using various approaches , the benefits and drawbacks of these approaches , and suggestions for the future are examined . FAU - Dinc , Rasit
Aims/Background Bronchopneumonia is a common infectious disease in pediatrics , which can lead to myocardial and hepatic impairments . Children with bronchopneumonia accompanied by wheezing are vulnerable to hypoxia , which may damage other systems . Therefore , this study explored the influence of montelukast combined with methylprednisolone on liver function , platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzymes in children with bronchopneumonia accompanied by wheezing . Methods The clinical data of this retrospective study included 82 pediatric cases diagnosed with bronchopneumonia and wheezing between April 2022 and April Based on treatment methods , patients were divided into the methylprednisolone group ( 40 cases ) as well as the montelukast and methylprednisolone group ( 42 cases ) . Therapeutic efficacy , resolution time of clinical symptoms , and adverse effects were recorded . Furthermore , liver function indicators , platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzyme levels were comparatively assessed using biochemical analyzer , hematology analyzer and biological kits in both groups . Results The total efficacy rate of the montelukast and methylprednisolone group was 2% ( 40/42 ) , higher than the 5% of the methylprednisolone group ( p = 018 ) . Patients in the montelukast and methylprednisolone group had shorter hospitalization and clinical symptom disappearance times than the methylprednisolone group ( both p < 05 ) . In addition , there was no significant difference in total incidence of adverse reactions ( p = 700 ) . Methylprednisolone monotherapy or in combination with montelukast , substantially reduced liver function indicators , platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzyme levels ( p < 05 ) . Moreover , the platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzymes [aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , creatine kinase ( CK ) , and creatine kinase isoenzyme ( CK-MB ) ] were reduced in the montelukast and methylprednisolone group compared to the methylprednisolone group after treatment ( p < 05 ) . Compared to the methylprednisolone group , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) , total bilirubin ( TBIL ) , direct bilirubin ( DBIL ) levels were significantly diminished in the montelukast and methylprednisolone group following treatment ( p < 05 ) . Conclusion Montelukast and methylprednisolone combination therapy reduces platelet and eosinophil counts , alleviates myocardial and liver function damage , and demonstrates good therapeutic efficacy in children with bronchopneumonia accompanied by wheezing . FAU - Yuan , Wei
Aims/Background The resolution of non-tuberculous mycobacterial ( NTM ) lung disease is associated with the extent of pulmonary lesions and the presence of lung cavities . This study aims to identify factors influencing the development of extensive lung lesions and cavities in patients with NTM lung disease , thereby generating valuable insights for the management and treatment of NTM lung disease . Methods Retrospective analysis was conducted on clinical data from 198 hospitalized patients with NTM lung disease at the Department of Tuberculosis , The Second Hospital of Nanjing , between 2022 and Patient data like age , gender , past medical history , nutritional risk screening 2002 ( NRS-2002 ) score , lymphocyte count , peripheral blood neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) , pulmonary computed tomography ( CT ) imaging findings ( including extent of lung lesions and presence of cavities ) , and T cell subsets count were gathered through electronic medical records and hospital information system ( HIS ) system . Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were carried out with extensive lung lesions and cavities as dependent variables and other factors as independent variables . Results Among the 198 patients , 138 ( 7% ) exhibited extensive lung lesions , while cavities were observed in 76 individuals ( 4% ) . Based on the results of logistic regression analysis , a high NLR ( OR = 685 [176-663] , p = 029 ) and an NRS-2002 score >/=3 ( OR = 082 [726-183] , p < 001 ) were identified as risk factors for the development of extensive lung lesions in patients with NTM lung disease . Furthermore , elevated NLR ( OR = 454 [483-047] , p = 004 ) was associated with an increased risk of cavities in patients with NTM lung disease . Conclusion In patients with NTM lung disease , high NLR is the risk factor for extensive lung lesions and formation of pulmonary cavities , whereas malnutrition elevates the risk for prevalent lung lesions . Early intervention and active monitoring of these related indicators are necessary to prevent disease progression and enhance overall cure rates . FAU - Li , Xueqi
Magnetic fields ( MF ) exert a considerable influence on biological processes in various organisms , including prominent effects on plant growth and development . Plant responses to MFs are highly diverse , implying that a plethora of processes are affected , hampering their molecular characterization . In this report , we employed the well-characterized plant model Arabidopsis thaliana to determine root growth responses to both static magnetic fields ( SMF ) and gradient magnetic fields ( Gradient MF ) . SMF exposure resulted in a dosage-dependent inhibition of root elongation growth and altered auxin-responsive reporter expression , whilst Gradient MF exposure interfered with root curvature and auxin signaling under conditions of minimized gravity effects . Mutants deficient in components of the Arabidopsis auxin transport machinery were less responsive to MFs than wild type , indicative of MF-induced effects on polar auxin transport . When viewing the subcellular localization of PIN-FORMED ( PIN ) auxin efflux transporters in root meristems , we found that MFs impact their subcellular distribution in root cap and epidermis cells . These effects on PIN localization hint at a molecular switch , linking cellular protein dynamics , auxin transport , and morphogenesis , by which MFs impact the growth of higher plants .
Previous structural and biochemical studies revealed that a negatively charged intrinsically disordered region ( IDR ) at the C-terminal of the Spt16 subunit of an evolutionarily conserved heterodimeric histone chaperone , FACT ( Facilitates chromatin transcription ) , interacts with histone H2A-H2B dimer , and hence interferes the interaction of DNA with histone H2A-H2B dimer . However , the functional relevance of the binding of Spt16 ' s IDR to histone H2A-H2B dimer with impact on chromatin dynamics and transcription has not been clearly elucidated in living cells . Here , we show that Spt16 ' s IDR facilitates the eviction of histone H2A-H2B dimer ( and hence chromatin disassembly ) from the inducible GAL promoters upon transcription induction . Such facilitation of chromatin disassembly by Spt16 ' s IDR stimulates the pre-initiation complex ( PIC ) formation at the promoter , and hence transcription initiation . Further , we find that Spt16 ' s IDR regulates chromatin reassembly at the coding sequence in the wake of elongating RNA polymerase II . Collectively , our results reveal that Spt16 ' s IDR facilitates promoter chromatin disassembly for stimulation of the PIC formation for transcription initiation with additional function in chromatin reassembly at the coding sequence in the wake of elongating RNA polymerase II , thus illuminating novel IDR regulation of chromatin dynamics and transcription in vivo . FAU - Barman , Priyanka
Cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) is a rare but devastating liver cancer which is commonly diagnosed at a late stage and often resistant to chemotherapy . Bcl-2 family members , which control apoptotic cell death , are known to be involved in the chemoresistance of some cancer types . This study investigated the role of Bcl-2 family members in the chemoresistance of cholangiocarcinoma organoids ( CCAOs ) in both undifferentiated and matured branching phenotypes ( BRCCAOs ) . Patient-derived CCAOs and BRCCAOs were cultured to assess chemoresistance to an FDA-approved anticancer drug panel by testing cell viability using ATP quantification and apoptotic cell death by cleaved caspase 3 staining . More specifically , sensitivity to the first-line drug gemcitabine was tested in combination with Bcl-2 family inhibitors or activators . We found that in gemcitabine-resistant CCAOs , inhibition of Bcl-xl could overcome gemcitabine resistance and induce apoptotic cell death . Although inhibition of Mcl-1 or activation of Bax induced spontaneous cell death , this could not overcome gemcitabine resistance . The BRCCAOs , which mimic tumor architecture better than CCAOs , show broader chemoresistance to anticancer drugs . Of note , in the resistant BRCCAOs , Bcl-xl inhibition could restore gemcitabine sensitivity . In conclusion , this study shows that targeting Bcl-xl can overcome chemoresistance to gemcitabine in CCA organoids . CCAOs and BRCCAOs provide good preclinical models for testing new drug combinations and assessing personalized therapeutic approaches .
Myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( MDSCs ) are a heterogeneous population of pathologically expanded immature myeloid cells originating from bone marrow precursors , characterized by their potent immunosuppressive activity through mechanisms such as T cell inhibition , cytokine dysregulation , and metabolic interference . These cells are critically implicated in diverse pathological contexts , including cancer progression , chronic infections , and inflammatory disorders . In chronic liver diseases , MDSCs contribute to the pathogenesis of multiple conditions , such as chronic viral hepatitis , alcoholic liver disease ( ALD ) , nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , and autoimmune liver diseases ( AILD ) . Emerging evidence highlights their dual roles in both exacerbating tissue injury and modulating immune responses , positioning MDSCs as pivotal regulators of disease progression and potential therapeutic targets . In this review , we summarize the biological roles of MDSCs in a variety of chronic inflammatory liver diseases and explore the therapeutic potential of targeting these diseases to provide new insight for the treatment of chronic liver diseases .
Legumes play a pivotal role in human nutrition due to their high nutritional value , especially protein content . Therefore , enhancing the productivity of grain legumes is desirable for ensuring food and nutritional security . Seed size and seed weight are key factors influencing productivity . This article consolidates the substantial amount of research conducted to uncover the molecular signatures associated with seed size into a structured format , providing a one-stop platform of available resources for enhancing genetic gains in legumes . The advent of NGS technologies enabled the decryption of genomes and transcriptomes of important grain legumes . Moreover , molecular signatures such as SSRs , SNPs , transcription factors , methylation patterns and so forth scanned from phenotypically and genotypically well-characterized natural and mapping populations helped identify the QTLs , MTAs and candidate genes associated with seed size . Many of these QTLs and candidate genes have been utilized in marker-assisted breeding for achieving larger seeds and enhanced yield in legumes . Besides , the characterization of legume orthologs of candidate genes from other crops using different omics approaches helped in understanding the regulatory pathways involved in seed size determination in legumes . This review provides a direction for the effective utilization of available resources to enhance legume productivity .
Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors ( MPNSTs ) primarily originate from the neurofibromatosis 1 ( NF1 ) - associated and/or sporadic neurofibromas . Reports of malignant transformation from a sporadic soft tissue schwannoma are rare . In most tumors documented in this context so far , the malignant component is an epithelioid MPNST with a strong and diffuse S100 positivity . We present a patient diagnosed with a sporadic soft tissue schwannoma on core biopsy , which underwent rapid malignant transformation to a spindle cell type MPNST . Somatic tumor profiling of the excision specimen revealed NF2 loss , TP53 , NRAS , and subclonal RICTOR gene mutations . A retrospective immunohistochemical stain for p53 on the core biopsy demonstrated an aberrant staining pattern , indicating an early effect of TP53 in the process of malignant transformation . FAU - Ramineni , Madhurya
Micro/nano-topographies ( MNTs ) of biomaterials are well-known to influence osteoblast differentiation , although the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood . Piezo1 is involved in mechanotransduction in various cell types , and we hypothesized that Piezo1 may play a key role in osteogenic differentiation through the NFATc1-Wnt/beta-catenin or YAP signaling pathways . To test this hypothesis , polished titanium plates ( PT ) and titanium plates with TiO nanotubes ( TNT-30 and TNT-100 ) were used . Experimental results showed that TNT-100 increased the gene expression and activation of Piezo1 , upregulating osteogenic genes such as NFATc1 , Wnt3a , and beta-catenin , and promoting the nuclear localization of NFATc1 , beta-catenin , and YAP compared to PT . The influx of Ca ( 2+ ) through Piezo1 , activated by MNTs , initiated the signaling cascades . Furthermore , compared to TRPV4 , another recently reported mediator in MNTs-stimulated osteogenic differentiation , Piezo1 responded to MNTs much faster . These findings suggest that Piezo1 acts as an early mediator of osteogenic differentiation stimulated by MNTs in BMSCs .
A cystathionine beta-synthase ( CBS ) gene , FpCBS , of the wheat crown rot pathogen , Fusarium pseudograminearum , was identified . FpCBS was highly expressed during conidiation and the early phases of infection . Compared to the wild-type and FpCBS complemented strains , the FpCBS deletion strain had a similar hyphal morphology and growth rate but reduced conidiation . In culture , the FpCBS deletion strain showed broad-scale changes with a decrease in HS levels , changes in sulphur-containing amino acids and 1207 differentially expressed proteins . The deletion strain also showed reduced deoxynivalenol ( DON ) production , cellophane penetration ability , antioxidant capacity , as well as increased hyphal iron levels , sensitivity to HO and lipid peroxidation . During infection , the DeltaFpcbs strain showed diminished virulence to wheat with fewer penetration structures , and there was a stronger host defence response with wheat epidermal cells having thickened walls and greater reactive oxygen species accumulation . Transcriptomic analysis of infected leaves showed 1954 differentially expressed genes in the FpCBS deletion strain compared to the wild-type strain . This included genes for sulphur metabolism , antioxidative defence , plant cell wall-degrading enzymes and trichothecene production . FpCBS not only plays a pivotal role in sulphur metabolism and HS production , but it is also important for a broad range of fungal functions , including iron homoeostasis , mycotoxin production and development ( conidiation and penetration structures ) . These factors may all contribute to varying extents to the significant decrease in virulence of the FpCBS deletion strain . The findings have shown that FpCBS is important for much more than sulphur metabolism and HS synthesis . However , its role in virulence highlights its potential as a novel target for developing strategies to control wheat crown rot .
Silicon ( Si ) anodes hold exceptional promise for high-energy-density lithium-ion batteries ( LIBs ) due to their ultrahigh theoretical capacity ( ~4200 mAh g ( - ) ) . However , their commercialization is severely hindered by the significant volume expansion ( ~300% ) and unstable solid electrolyte interphase ( SEI ) . Conventional SEI , predominantly composed of organic species , suffers from low ionic conductivity , low electronic insulation and poor mechanical robustness , leading to rapid capacity decay . Herein , we propose an interface engineering strategy by decorating Si nanoparticles with an in-situ conversed MgF layer ( with coating integrity of 6% ) . During initial lithiation , the applied MgF layer is in-situ conversed into SEI film with high ionic conductivity , electronic insulation and better mechanical adaptability . The prepared Si@MgF-1 anode achieves a high initial coulombic efficiency ( 7% ) , superior rate capability ( 2000 mAh g ( - ) at 10 C ) , and remarkable cycling stability ( 9 mAh g-1 after 500 cycles ) . Full-cell based on the Si@MgF-1 anode and NCM811 cathode further validate the practicality of this approach . The robust conversion strategy for the construction of a mechanically adaptive LiF-rich SEI layer holds significant promise for the advancement of durable silicon-based LIBs .
BACKGROUND : Erectile dysfunction ( ED ) significantly affects both psychological and physiological well-being , with limited effective treatments available for nerve injury-induced ED . Stem cell therapy , particularly using human amniotic fluid stem cells ( hAFSCs ) , shows promise due to the secretome ( hAFSC-S ) , which is rich in growth factors and chemoattractants . This study investigated the paracrine effects of hAFSC-S on erectile function recovery in a rat model of bilateral cavernous nerve crush ( BCNC ) injury . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Thirty rats were divided into Sham and BCNC groups . The BCNC group received 200 microL of hAFSC-S via intracavernous injection . Western blotting was used to evaluate endothelial markers , while both Western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay were used to characterize the secretome . Four weeks post-treatment , intracavernous pressure ( ICP ) was measured to assess erectile function . Histological analysis , immunofluorescence staining , and electron microscopy were conducted to examine penile tissue and nerve integrity . RESULTS : The hAFSC-S-treated group demonstrated significantly higher ICP ( 77 +/- 21 cmHO ) compared to the untreated BCNC group ( 60 +/- 64 cmHO ) . Histology revealed improved muscle integrity in the corpus cavernosum , increased smooth muscle content , and enhanced nerve myelination . Immunofluorescence staining showed elevated expression of neuronal markers , including nNOS and beta-III-tubulin , in the major pelvic ganglion ( 42 +/- 01% ) and dorsal penile nerve ( 46 +/- 01% ) . No significant differences were observed in vWF expression between the BCNC and BCNC + Secretome groups in some regions ( 07 +/- 009% ) . However , Western blot analysis revealed restored expression of endothelial markers CD31 and eNOS in penile tissue . CONCLUSION : hAFSC-S therapy enhanced nerve regeneration and penile tissue restoration , leading to improved erectile function in a BCNC rat model . These findings highlight its potential as a therapeutic option for ED .
BACKGROUND : Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent cell death , has been widely reported to impede the progression of various malignancies , including breast cancer ( BC ) . Previous evidence has indicated that high expression of non-coding RNA activated by DNA damage ( NORAD ) is correlated with poor prognosis in BC patients . Nonetheless , it is unclear whether NORAD plays a role in the ferroptosis of BC cells . METHODS : BC cells were treated with the ferroptosis agonist erastin to induce ferroptosis . Western blotting and qRT-PCR were employed to determine protein and RNA levels , respectively . The cell counting kit-8 assay was used to assess cell viability . Mitochondrial morphology , lipid peroxidation , and intracellular Fe2+ , MDA , and GSH levels were evaluated for ferroptosis . ChIP , luciferase reporter , and RIP assays were conducted to explore the molecular mechanism of NORAD . A xenograft mouse model ( BALB/c nude ) was established to evaluate NORAD ' s effect on ferroptosis of BC in vivo . RESULTS : NORAD displayed a high level in human BC tissues and cells . NORAD overexpression or silencing inhibited or facilitated erastin-induced ferroptosis of BC cells , respectively . NORAD upregulated NR3C1 expression via interaction with FUS , and NR3C1 could transcriptionally upregulate SLC7A Overexpressing SLC7A11 could reverse NORAD silencing-mediated promotion of ferroptosis . NORAD upregulation attenuated the antitumor activity of erastin in tumor-bearing mice . CONCLUSIONS : NORAD upregulates SLC7A11 via the FUS/NR3C1 axis , thereby suppressing erastin-induced ferroptosis of BC cells .
Podocytopathies are a diverse group of kidney diseases characterized by podocyte injury , leading to proteinuria and reduced kidney function . This injury often disrupts cytoskeletal dynamics and cellular adhesion , causing glomerular dysfunction . Current in vitro models fail to accurately mimic the three-dimensional ( 3D ) organization and mechanics of kidney tissue , hindering the understanding of podocyte pathophysiology and therapeutic development . In this study , 3D microtissues are developed that replicate the structure and mechanics of the glomerular filtration barrier , enabling the modeling of chemically and genetically induced podocyte injuries for drug target validation . These microtissues simulate the glomerulus ' s three-layer structure and hemodynamic mechanical stretch , providing a platform to evaluate relevant mechanobiological signaling pathways and podocyte dynamics . Collective cellular forces are measured to assess podocyte resilience against genetic or chemical injuries . As a proof-of-concept , podocyte injury is modeled through transient receptor potantial canonical 6 ( TRPC6 ) overexpression , a validated target in podocytopathies , and evaluated by the TRPC6 inhibitor SAR The results demonstrated a loss of podocyte contractile forces upon TRPC6 overexpression , with recovery following treatment . This highlights the potential of glomerular microtissues to model podocyte mechano-pathophysiology and serves as a robust platform for screening new therapies .
Kidney diseases , posing significant global public health challenges due to their complex pathogenesis and diagnostic/therapeutic difficulties , have seen emerging advancements through nanomedicine . In diagnostics , nanoparticles leverage unique physicochemical properties to enhance imaging precision . Superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles improve magnetic resonance imaging sensitivity by amplifying T-weighted contrast , while microbubbles/nanobubbles enhance ultrasound resolution via signal reflection . Quantum dots and gold nanoparticles optimize photoacoustic imaging with superior fluorescence and photostability . Therapeutically , nanoparticle-based drug delivery systems demonstrate targeted delivery , reduced systemic toxicity , and improved drug stability and bioavailability in preclinical studies . Nanocarrier-integrated stem cell and gene therapies further show potential in repairing renal cells and mitigating kidney injury . This review systematically examines nanomedicine ' s dual diagnostic and therapeutic roles in kidney diseases , compares strengths and limitations of various nanodelivery platforms , and addresses current challenges in clinical translation . By exploring novel nanotechnology-driven strategies , it aims to guide future research toward effective , tailored therapies for improved renal disease management .
Hydrogel electrolytes are promising for aqueous zinc metal batteries but face challenges in suppressing Zn dendrites and cathode dissolution . This study develops a polyanionic hydrogel electrolyte , poly ( 2-acrylamido-2-methyl-1-propanesulfonic acid-co-acrylamide ) ( P ( AMPS-co-AM ) ) , featuring a dense porous structure that enables a higher Zn ( 2+ ) transference number ( t ( Zn ) ( 2+ ) = 81 ) and homogeneous zinc deposition . Additionally , the dense porous structure further reduces the proportion of free water molecules , thereby suppressing side reactions . Based on the benefits of the hydrogel , the Zn||Zn symmetric cell demonstrates over 3000 h of continuous cycling , and the Zn||Cu asymmetric cell exhibits an exceptional Coulombic efficiency of 29% in the first cycle . Benefiting from the fixation of transition metals by polyanionic groups and the reduced content of free water molecules within a densely packed porous architecture , the PBA||Zn full cell achieves a high energy density of 267 Wh kg ( -1 ) . This hydrogel electrolyte design strategy provides significant insights for achieving long cycle life through both the microscale and macroscale structure design to achieve low cost and high energy density of aqueous zinc-metal batteries ( AZMBs ) .
Tuberculosis ( TB ) remains a significant global health challenge with approximately 2 million new cases reported in 2023 , despite the century-old Bacillus Calmette-Guerin ( BCG ) vaccine . BCG ' s protective efficacy diminishes over time , especially against pulmonary TB in adults . This study evaluates ethanol-inactivated Mycobacterium paragordonae ( M . pg ) delivered via Microneedle Array Patches ( MAPs ) as a novel booster strategy to enhance BCG vaccination efficacy . Various inactivation methods including heat treatment , formalin , and ethanol were compared , with ethanol-inactivated M . pg selected for optimal preservation of morphology and immunologically significant proteins . MAPs were fabricated using the droplet extension technique ( DEN ) . Immunological assessment was conducted in a mouse model receiving either BCG alone or BCG followed by one or two administrations of inactivated M . pg MAP . Protective efficacy was evaluated through M . tuberculosis H37Rv challenge . Ethanol inactivation uniquely preserved morphology and maintained protein integrity , particularly Ag85B . Two administrations of inactivated M . pg following BCG priming significantly enhanced protective immune responses compared to BCG alone , inducing strong Th1-polarized immunity characterized by elevated IFN-gamma , TNF-alpha , and IL-2 production in both CD4+ and CD8+ T cells . This vaccination strategy effectively generated effector memory T cells in lung and spleen , contributing to significant reduction in bacterial burden following challenge , with the BCG+Inactivated M . pg ( 2nd ) group demonstrating the greatest reduction . Inactivated M . pg delivered via microneedle patches represents an effective booster strategy for enhancing BCG-induced protection against tuberculosis , with a two-dose schedule demonstrating optimal efficacy . This approach combines the safety advantages of an inactivated vaccine with the practical benefits of MAPs , addressing key limitations of tuberculosis vaccination strategies . FAU - Lee , Moonsu
Metal-based LDHs incorporated with TMDs , exhibiting excellent synergistic effects , have attracted significant interest from researchers for energy production and storage applications due to their outstanding properties . In the present research , manganese cobalt sulfide incorporated into a manganese cobalt layered double hydroxide ( MnCoS@MnCo LDH ) composite has been developed for supercapacitors and overall water splitting . At a current density of 1 mA cm ( -2 ) , the MnCoS@MnCo LDH-NF exhibits the highest specific capacitance ( 8 F g ( -1 ) ) compared to other electrodes . The MnCoS@MnCo LDH//AC ASCD demonstrates an energy density of 27 Wh kg ( -1 ) and a power density of 06 W kg ( -1 ) , along with high cyclic stability , retaining 75% of its capacitance and 36% Coulombic efficiency . Furthermore , MnCoS@MnCo LDH-NF shows lower overpotentials ( n ) and Tafel slopes for HER ( -9 mV and 2 mV dec ( -1 ) ) and OER ( -68 mV and 95 mV dec ( -1 ) ) compared to control electrodes . The fabricated water-splitting cell ( MnCoS@MnCo LDH ( ( + , - ) ) ) efficiently generates both oxygen ( O ) and hydrogen ( H ) bubbles at a low voltage of 38 V . These results demonstrate that the MnCoS@MnCo LDH composite is an excellent candidate for both energy storage ( supercapacitor ) and green energy production ( water splitting ) , showing potential for future renewable energy systems .
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to analyze the ultrasound findings of bile duct involvement in pediatric Langerhans cell histiocytosis ( LCH ) . METHODS : We retrospectively analyzed 42 patients diagnosed with pediatric LCH by pathology at our hospital from December 2016 to December All patients had comprehensive clinical data and ultrasound findings indicating biliary abnormalities . This study analyzed intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile duct dilation , the extent of bile duct wall thickening , and surrounding abnormal echoes . RESULTS : Among the 42 children , ultrasonography showed intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile duct dilation in 27 cases ( 64% ) , bile duct wall thickening in 21 cases ( 50% ) , hypoechoic areas along the intrahepatic bile ducts in 16 cases ( 38% ) , and thickening of the Glisson ' s capsule with decreased echogenicity around the bile ducts in 8 cases ( 19% ) . CONCLUSION : Ultrasonography revealing varying degrees of bile duct dilatation or stenosis , thickened bile duct walls , and abnormal echo patterns along the bile duct in the liver in pediatric patients with cholangitis should raise suspicion for LCH .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide . Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of programmed cell death driven by lipid peroxidation , has emerged as a promising strategy for cancer treatment . However , the development of ferroptosis resistance limits the efficacy of such treatments . This study reports that phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase 1 alpha ( PIP5K1A ) promotes HCC tumorigenesis and predicts poor prognosis in HCC patients . Knockdown of PIP5K1A enhances lipid peroxidation and increases sensitivity to sorafenib-induced ferroptosis by inhibiting the activation of downstream ferroptosis-related genes regulated by nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) . Mechanistically , PIP5K1A competitively binds to the Kelch domain of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 in a kinase-independent manner , leading to NRF2 escaping from ubiquitination degradation , thereby promoting NRF2-dependent transcription and suppressing ferroptosis . Furthermore , ISA-2011B , a PIP5K1A-specific inhibitor , effectively inhibits HCC growth and sensitized HCC cells to sorafenib . In conclusion , PIP5K1A is a promising therapeutic target for improving the efficacy of sorafenib and other ferroptosis inducers in HCC .
Tin perovskite solar cells are emerging as a sustainable lead-free alternative in thin film photovoltaics . DMSO-free processed tin perovskites are gaining interest due to the detrimental effects of DMSO on tin oxidation . However , replacing DMSO with other solvents remains challenging due to the accelerated crystallization dynamics in non-DMSO systems . In this study , the crystallization process in a DMSO-free solvent system is regulated by managing the transition from the sol-gel phase to the solid film . Specifically , piperazine dihydriodide ( PDAI ) and 4-tert-butylpyridine ( tBP ) are utilized to coordinately tune the colloidal chemistry through forming large pre-nucleation clusters in perovskite ink , further , facilitating the film formation process . By combining tBP and PDAI , a controllable crystallization rate is achieved as evidenced by in situ photoluminescence ( PL ) measurement during spin-coating . As a result , tin perovskite films show high crystallinity and improved microstructure . Devices treated with tBP+PDAI exhibit a champion power conversion efficiency of 8% and excellent stability without observable degradation for over 3000 h stored in the N glovebox . These findings advance understanding and managing crystallization in DMSO-free solvents processed tin perovskite solar cells .
Interface engineering has become the main force in reforming the photogenerated carrier and energy losses in perovskite solar cells ( PSCs ) . Here , a multifaceted hole-selective molecule C-DPT , is designed and synthesized with methoxy-triphenylamine-carbazole and diphenyl-triazine units , which is employed as the interface modulator between perovskite and hole transport layer . The introduction of C-DPT endows the perovskite/hole transport layer heterojunction with a more flat physical contact , lower trap density , and faster hole extraction . The combined theoretical and experimental results decipher that C-DPT possessing the compatible contact and favorable perovskite binding ability can efficiently boost the interfacial defect restoration , compensate the interfacial energetic offset , and promote the interfacial carrier transportation . As a result , C-DPT-modified PSC delivers a champion power conversion efficiency of 02% in conjunction with the pronouncedly improved long-term ambient , thermal , and humidity stability .
BACKGROUND : For patients with locally advanced ( la ) or metastatic ( m ) cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma ( cSCC ) who are not candidates for curative surgery/radiation or systemic anti-PD1 therapy , anti-EGFR in combination with chemotherapy is a rational treatment option . PATIENTS AND METHODS : We analyzed data from 20 patients with cSCC in this monocentric , retrospective study . 4/20 patients had laSCC and 16/20 patients had mSCC . Patients received combined cetuximab and 5-FU between 2015 and Nine patients received cetuximab + 5-FU as second-line therapy ( 8 patients after anti-PD-1 , 1 patient after radiochemotherapy ) . RESULTS : One patient had partial response ( PR ) and 9/20 ( 0% ) had stable disease ( SD ) . Disease control rate ( PR + SD ) was 50% . No complete remissions were observed . One of the non-responders suffered from laSCC , nine patients had mSCC with distant metastases ( including parotid ) and locoregional lymph node metastases . Treatment was well tolerated , with a median PFS of 3 months ( 95% confidence interval [CI] 2 months to not assessable [NA] ) and median overall survival ( OS ) of 29 months ( 95% CI 11-NA ) . The most common adverse event was acne-like rash in 0% of patients . CONCLUSIONS : For patients with advanced cSCC who are contraindicated to or have progressed on first-line cemiplimab , combination of cetuximab and 5-FU is a well-tolerated but limited treatment option .
Immunotherapy represents a highly promising modality in cancer treatment , with substantial advancements in therapeutic strategies . The primary challenge lies in enhancing the efficacy of immunotherapy approaches . Here , novel cryo-inactivated cancer cells ( CICC ) derived magnetic micromotors ( CICC@FeMnP ) are reported for tumor synergistic immunotherapy . Through the magnetic control , the CICC@FeMnP micromotors can on-demand target and accumulate at the tumor site . The FeMnP can induce ferroptosis and then trigger immunogenic cell death of tumor cells . The CICC containing the whole cancer antigen can conduct vaccination effects . Together with the Mn ( 2+ ) -mediated cGAS-STING pathway to stimulate the immune response , substantial anti-tumor immune effects can be achieved . Importantly , the CICC@FeMnP micromotors not only facilitate the establishment of a collaborative anti-tumor immune network to enhance effective tumoricidal immunity but also induce long-lasting immune memory effects . These results contribute to the inhibition of tumor progression , recurrence and lung metastasis , thereby prolonging the overall survival of tumor-bearing mice . This work underscores the potential of an engineered biohybrid micromotor system as an alternative therapeutic approach in immunotherapy to enhance efficacy against tumors .
This work unveils a diffusion-kinetic modulation strategy that fundamentally redefines sodium management in kesterite photovoltaics , enabling spatially controlled Na sequestration within CuZnSn ( S , Se ) ( CZTSSe ) absorber layers through a thermally engineered " Na-locking " mechanism . By establishing critical correlations between post-processing thermal protocols and alkali metal migration dynamics , how synchronized extension of sintering duration and rapid cooling termination creates a non-equilibrium state that traps Na at strategic interfacial positions is demonstrated . This approach leverages Na ' s dual functionality as a crystallization promoter and defect passivator , driving concurrent improvements in crystallographic coherence and electronic uniformity . The optimized absorber architecture features laterally expanded grains with reduced boundary density and homogenized interfacial charge transport pathways , yielding the highest reported efficiency of 22% for Na-doped CZTSSe solar cells to date , marked by synergistic enhancements in both V ( OC ) and FF . Crucially , this substrate-derived Na regulation paradigm outperforms conventional extrinsic doping methods through its self-limiting diffusion characteristics , ensuring compositional stability while eliminating secondary phase risks . The methodology establishes a universal framework for defect engineering in chalcogenide photovoltaics , bridging fundamental insights into alkali metal diffusion thermodynamics with scalable manufacturing solutions . These findings advance kesterite solar cell technology and offer a blueprint for optimizing thin-film devices , improving process tolerance and material sustainability .
ObjectiveGinsenoside Rg1 has demonstrated beneficial effects in myocardial ischemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) injury . However , its potential anti-arrhythmic role in ventricular arrhythmias remains unclear . MethodsIn this study , a whole-cell patch clamp technique was employed to evaluate the effects of Rg1 on L-type calcium current ( I ( CaL ) ) and ventricular arrhythmia . Western blot analysis was conducted to investigate the underlying signaling pathways involved . ResultsGinsenoside Rg1 inhibited I ( CaL ) in ventricular myocytes in a concentration-dependent manner . Additionally , Rg1 alleviated the I/R-induced increase in diastolic intracellular calcium concentration ( [Ca ( 2+ ) ]i ) and reduced calcium overload . Importantly , Rg1 decreased the incidence of ventricular tachycardia ( VT ) and ventricular fibrillation ( VF ) in I/R injury models . Mechanistically , these cardioprotective effects appear to be mediated via modulation of the cAMP-PKA and PI3K-AKT signaling pathways . ConclusionsRg1 may attenuate the deterioration of cardiac function during acute I/R injury , lower the susceptibility to ventricular arrhythmias , and prevent their occurrence following I/R . These findings suggest that Rg1 holds therapeutic potential in the management of I/R-induced ventricular arrhythmias . FAU - Wang , Teng
Lung adenocarcinoma remains a significant public health concern , necessitating novel therapeutic approaches . Neuregulin 4 ( NRG4 ) , a secreted protein of the epidermal growth factor family , is recognized for its roles in metabolic regulation and anti-inflammatory processes , suggesting therapeutic potential across various diseases . However , its specific function in lung adenocarcinoma progression is not well elucidated . Methods : We utilized The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) database to examine correlations between NRG4 expression , epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) -related genes , and overall survival in lung adenocarcinoma patients . The effects of recombinant NRG4 ( rNRG4 ) on cell migration and cancer progression were evaluated through Transwell assays , quantitative PCR , immunofluorescence , and immunohistochemistry . Additionally , a lung adenocarcinoma mouse model ( LLC-bearing ) was employed to assess the impact of rNRG4 on tumor progression . RNA sequencing of primary tumors was conducted to explore the functional mechanisms underlying rNRG4 ' s effects . Results : Our analysis revealed that NRG4 expression inversely correlates with key molecules involved in cell migration and EMT in lung adenocarcinoma . Treatment with rNRG4 significantly inhibited cell proliferation , migration , EMT , and tumor growth in both in vitro and in vivo models . RNA sequencing indicated that rNRG4 downregulates extracellular matrix ( ECM ) proteins , and online database analyses confirmed that higher NRG4 expression is associated with reduced ECM levels and improved patient survival . Conclusions : These findings suggest that NRG4 serves as a potential candidate for further investigation for lung adenocarcinoma . FAU - Zhang , Shufan
BackgroundPrevious studies suggest that transient receptor potential melastatin 2 ( TRPM2 ) plays a protective role in sepsis by enhancing bacterial clearance . This effect is mediated through the modulation of macrophage phenotypic changes , which strengthen the immune response against infection . However , the specific role and underlying mechanism of TRPM2 in macrophage polarization during sepsis remain unclear . MethodCecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) was used to establish a mouse sepsis model , and bone marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDMs ) and peritoneal macrophages were prepared from C57BL/6 wild-type and TRPM2 knockout ( trpm2 ( -/- ) ) mice . IPI549 was utilized as a specific inhibitor of PI3K . Macrophage polarization , bactericidal ability , and the PI3K/protein kinase B ( AKT ) /cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein signaling pathway were assessed . In addition , survival rate , bacterial burden , lung wet/dry weight ratio , lung and liver injury scores , and cytokine levels were measured in CLP-induced septic mice . ResultsIn lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -stimulated BMDMs , trpm2 deficiency increased the expression of characteristic markers associated with the M2b phenotype , reduced the bactericidal ability , and activated the PI3K/AKT/CREB signaling pathway . Consequently , both trpm2 ( -/- ) BMDMs and trpm2 ( -/- ) mice exhibited impaired bactericidal clearance during CLP-induced sepsis . Furthermore , IPI549 attenuated TRPM2 deletion-induced M2b polarization and restored the bactericidal function of BMDMs . Notably , IPI549 preconditioning reversed the increased susceptibility of the trpm2 ( -/- ) mice to sepsis . The 7-day mortality rate was 92% in trpm2 ( -/- ) mice , compared to 42% in IPI549-pretreated trpm2 ( -/- ) mice . Moreover , IPI549-treated mice exhibited improved lung wet/dry ratios , reduced lung and liver injury scores , reversed M2b polarization and decreased bacterial load . ConclusionThe PI3K/AKT/CREB pathway mediates the effect of TRPM2 by inhibiting M2b macrophage polarization and promoting bacterial clearance during sepsis . FAU - Shen , Yanping
The placenta is vital for fetal growth , and its methylation patterns reflect placental function , affecting the fetus and providing insights into disease origins . While cord blood methylation is convenient for assessing the fetal environment , methylation profiles vary by tissue due to variance in cell populations , function , and life stage . As tissue differences extensively contribute to the DNA methylation patterns , using surrogate samples such as cord blood may result in inconsistent findings . In this study , we aim to quantify the correlation of cytosine-phosphate-guanine dinucleotides ( CpGs ) between paired cord blood and placenta samples . Using the Infinium Human Methylation 450 K BeadChip , we compared methylation patterns in cord blood mononuclear cells ( CBMC ; n = 54 ) , the maternally-facing side of placental tissue ( MP ; n = 68 ) , and the fetal-facing side of placental tissue ( FP ; n = 67 ) . Methylation patterns from the FP ( 6 , 021 CpGs ) were significantly correlated with CBMC compared to the MP ( 2 , 862 CpGs ) . These CpGs were related to the biological ( mitotic cell ) process and molecular function ( ribonucleoprotein complex binding ) . Our findings quantified CpG site correlation between cord blood and placenta , providing a valuable reference for future studies on placental health that rely on cord blood methylation in the absence of placental biospecimens . FAU - Puvvula , Jagadeesh
In the present study , we investigated the potential biological effects of proteins and peptides extracted from four different commercial quinoa grain varieties : Black ( B ) , Red ( R ) , White ( W ) , and Royal White ( RO ) , using Caco-2 cells as a proliferation model . Concentration-response curves were constructed to evaluate cytotoxicity and antiproliferative effects . Interestingly , peptides exhibited higher cytotoxicity than proteins , particularly in R and RO quinoa varieties . Based on these findings , we used a data mining approach to identify and compare the cytotoxic proteins in the four quinoa varieties . Using their relative abundance , we successfully classified R and RO quinoa as a cohesive group using classification models . To gain deeper insights into the biological effects on cells , we comprehensively analyzed the differential expression of apoptosis biomarkers using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) targeted proteomics . Finally , we correlated the apoptosis profile with the relative abundance of cytotoxic proteins . All these studies were supported by the application of multivariate data analysis . The results demonstrated the potential anticancer of quinoa grain proteins and peptides and provided the basis for more focused mechanistic studies aimed at developing functional foods and nutraceuticals .
Inspired by dynamic systems in nature , we can introduce dynamics into synthetic biomaterials through dynamic covalent bonds or supramolecular interactions . Combining both types of dynamic interactions may allow for advanced and innovative networks with multiple levels of dynamicity . Here we present two types of solid materials consisting of either dynamic covalent imine bonds or a combination of these dynamic covalent bonds with supramolecular hydrogen bonding ureido-pyrimidinone ( UPy ) units to obtain double dynamic materials . We showed the facile synthesis and formulation of both materials at room temperature . The thermal and physical properties of each material are highly tunable by altering the ratio and type of cross-linker . Interestingly , we showed that minimal amounts of UPy units result in a drastic increase in material mechanics . Furthermore , we show that both types of materials are suitable as biomaterials through functionalization with cell-adhesive peptides , through either a dynamic covalent imine bond or a supramolecular UPy moiety . FAU - Aarts , Jasper G M
Biological barriers present remarkable challenges for therapeutics delivery , requiring an advanced drug delivery system that can navigate through the complex physiological environment . Polymeric particles provide remarkable versatility due to their adaptable physiochemical properties , facilitating new designs that address complex delivery issues . This review focuses on recent advancements in the morphology of polymeric particles that emulate biological barriers to improve drug efficacy . It includes how structural engineering horizontal line such as designing rod-shaped particles for improved cellular uptake , red-blood-cell-shaped particles for prolonged circulation , worm-shaped carriers for improved tissue penetration , and multicompartmental systems for providing combination therapies horizontal line profoundly alters drug delivery capabilities . These designer particles exhibit enhanced target specificity , controlled release kinetics , and improved therapeutic outcomes relative to traditional spherical carriers . This particular review also emphasizes how a combination of polymer chemistry and fabrication methods facilitates achieving these advanced structures , while highlighting ongoing challenges in scale-up , reproducibility , and clinical translations . Through the analysis of structure-functional property correlations in various biomimetic designs , we have also attempted to provide insight into future advancements in polymeric delivery systems that have the potential to transform treatment strategies for complicated diseases via shape-directed biological interactions for better therapeutic outcomes . FAU - Gupta , Nidhi
Rotator cuff disease is a prevalent musculoskeletal condition associated with significant pain and functional impairment . Various injection therapies , ranging from corticosteroids to advanced biologic approaches , offer potential solutions for managing rotator cuff disease . This scoping review consolidates evidence on the efficacy , safety , and mechanisms of these treatments . Corticosteroid injections , while effective for short-term pain relief , pose risks of tendon degeneration with prolonged use . Platelet-rich plasma demonstrates promise in promoting tendon healing and improving long-term outcomes , but variability in preparation methods limits its clinical consistency . Hyaluronic acid and prolotherapy show potential in improving pain and tendon function , often serving as adjuncts in combined therapeutic strategies . Emerging regenerative options , such as polydeoxyribonucleotide and bone marrow aspirate concentrate , leverage growth factors and stem cells to enhance tendon repair and reduce degeneration , with preliminary evidence supporting their clinical efficacy . By synthesizing current knowledge on injection therapy for rotator cuff disease , this review provides valuable insights for clinicians and researchers seeking to enhance the management of rotator cuff disease through injection therapy . FAU - Kim , Jong-Ho
Long blood circulation and fast cellular uptake are essential yet paradoxical requirements for efficient tumor-targeted drug delivery carriers . For instance , polyzwitterions , generally nonfouling to proteins and cells , have been extensively explored as long-circulating drug delivery carriers but suffer ultraslow cell internalization , making them inefficient in delivering drugs to cells . Protein-resistant yet cell membrane-binding polymers will simultaneously achieve long blood circulation and fast cellular internalization , but their designs are generally complicated , such as introducing cell-membrane binding groups . Here , it is shown that the N-alkyl chain length of zwitterionic poly ( sulfobetaine ) can be used to tune its affinity toward proteins and cell membranes . A poly ( sulfobetaine ) with a moderately long N-alkyl chain became cell membrane-philic while retaining protein resistance , leading to long blood circulation and fast cellular uptake , which further triggered efficient tumor cell transcytosis and intratumor penetration . Thus , its paclitaxel ( PTX ) -loaded micelles demonstrated potent antitumor efficacy in triple-negative breast cancer models . This study showcases a paradigm of designing polyzwitterions harmonizing long blood circulation and fast cellular uptake properties as tumor-active drug delivery carriers .
Bacterial resistance represents one of the greatest challenges in modern medicine , requiring innovative strategies . This study presents the rational design of two synthetic analogue peptides , WK-MAP1 , and WG-MAP2 , inspired by the structure of the enzyme papain ( PDB 9PAP ) , emphasizing the novelty of using an enzyme as a model for developing new antimicrobials . Initially , in silico studies , including molecular modeling and docking experiments , revealed a high affinity of the peptides for mimetic bacterial membranes . Subsequently , in vitro assays confirmed their antimicrobial efficacy . WK-MAP1 demonstrated superior activity against carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae ( KPC+ ) , with a minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) of 25 muM , whereas WG-MAP2 exhibited activity against both tested strains ( KPC+ and ATCC ) , with MICs of 50 and 100 muM , respectively . Both peptides effectively inhibited biofilm formation and exhibited low cytotoxicity in murine cells . This research highlights the potential of WK-MAP1 and WG-MAP2 as promising candidates for novel antimicrobial therapies , offering an innovative approach to overcoming the limitations of conventional antibiotics .
AIMS : Atypical spindle cell lipomatous tumour ( ASLT ) and atypical pleomorphic lipomatous tumour ( APLT ) have been grouped together under the umbrella designation atypical spindle cell/pleomorphic lipomatous tumour ( ASPLT ) in the 2020 edition of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) Classification of Soft Tissue and Bone Tumours . They are thought to exist on a morphologic spectrum and share similar clinicopathologic and biological characteristics . The aim of this study was to further explore the genetic background of ASLTs and APLTs by employing DNA-based next-generation sequencing and immunohistochemistry , with a specific focus on the TP53 gene . METHODS AND RESULTS : Using DNA-based NGS and immunohistochemistry , TP53 alterations were identified in 20 out of 21 APLT cases ( 95% ) . This is in contrast to the ASLT cases , in which no TP53 alterations could be observed . Among APLT cases with an abnormal p53 immunohistochemical profile and successful DNA NGS testing , 92% ( 12 of 13 cases ) harboured a TP53 alteration . CONCLUSIONS : APLTs predominantly harbour a TP53 alteration in contrast to ASLT cases . Our findings support the classification of APLT as a distinct ( sub ) entity within a spectrum that overlaps with ASLT , and it remains to be determined whether the broader term ' ASPLT ' will hold up . Furthermore , p53 immunostaining proved to be a potentially valuable diagnostic tool , aiding pathologists in differentiating between ASLT and APLT .
A previous study found that repeated intrauterine infusions of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) followed by an LPS infusion into the mammary glands attenuated the mammary inflammatory response . This suggests that repeated LPS infusion into the uterus promotes endotoxin tolerance ( ET ) in the mammary gland . However , the specific changes in mammary glands under ET conditions remain unclear . We hypothesized that ET affects leukocyte function in milk . This study aimed to investigate leukocyte function in milk under ET conditions induced through repeated LPS infusions into the uterus for three days followed by LPS infusion into the mammary glands of goats . Goats in the IU group ( n = 17 ) received an infusion of 100 mug LPS in 5 ml saline into the uterus for three consecutive days ( d -3 , -2 , and -1 ) , whereas the goats in the control group did not receive this infusion ( n = 19 ) . On d 0 , 1 mug LPS in 5 ml saline was infused into the mammary glands of both groups . Milk was collected 0 , 4 , 8 , 12 , 24 , 48 , 72 , and 120 h after LPS intramammary infusion . The IU group decreased cytokine production ( interleukin ( IL ) -1beta , tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) -alpha , and IL-1Ra ) in milk following intramammary LPS infusion . Moreover , leukocyte activation , measured by phagocytic activity and CD11b expression , was higher in the IU group than in the control group . These findings suggest that goats exhibit enhanced leukocyte function in mammary glands under ET conditions , induced by repeated intrauterine infusion of LPS . FAU - Jaisue , Jirapat
Advancing clinical diagnostics requires platforms that combine catalytic efficiency , biocompatibility , and real-time , in vivo accessibility . Herein , this study reports a structurally integrated FePc-ZIF-8-MX nanozyme that combines the redox activity of FePc , the porous confinement of ZIF-8 , and the electrical conductivity of MX . Synthesized via a low-energy , ambient-condition process , this hybrid enables efficient electron transfer , enhanced analyte enrichment , and sustained catalytic activity in physiological environments . To translate this functionality into a wearable diagnostic format , the hybrid is seamlessly incorporated into a microneedle array , offering minimally invasive access to interstitial fluid for continuous L-cysteine ( L-Cys ) monitoring . The resulting platform exhibits high selectivity and sensitivity across complex biological matrices , including serum , urine , cultured cells , and a murine model of myocardial infarction . This study presents a multifunctional electrochemical platform that enables on-body metabolite monitoring through a microneedle-integrated nanozyme interface . To the best of our knowledge , it constitutes the first realization of real-time , in vivo L-Cys sensing in this format , setting a new benchmark for precision biosensing in translational healthcare .
Mixed tin-lead ( Sn-Pb ) perovskites are integral to all-perovskite tandem solar cells ( TSCs ) , offering significant potential to surpass the theoretical efficiency limits of single-junction solar cells . However , the rapid crystallization of Sn-Pb perovskite thin films and the propensity of Sn ( 2+ ) to oxidize into Sn ( 4+ ) remain critical challenges , hindering device performance and stability . Herein , it is demonstrated that a multifunctional dual-anion synergistic regulation strategy to fabricate high-quality MA-free Cs ( 1 ) FA ( 9 ) Pb ( 5 ) Sn ( 5 ) I perovskite thin films with superior morphology and crystallinity via a simplified antisolvent-free spin-coating process . Acetate anions ( Ac ( - ) ) derived from formamidinium acetate ( FAAc ) effectively regulate crystallization kinetics and mitigate Sn ( 2+ ) oxidation via intermediate phase formation and anion exchange process . Simultaneously , the combination of Ac ( - ) and thiocyanate anions ( SCN ( - ) ) from guanidinium thiocyanate ( GuaSCN ) promotes larger crystal grain growth and stabilizes Sn ( 2+ ) via strong coordination interactions . The dual-anion strategy effectively minimizes grain boundaries , suppresses non-radiative recombination , and optimizes the energy level alignment at interfaces . As a result , the champion single-junction Sn-Pb perovskite solar cell ( PSC ) achieves an impressive power conversion efficiency ( PCE ) of 26% , setting a new benchmark for Sn-Pb PSCs fabricated without antisolvent . While all-perovskite TSCs reach 07% efficiency with remarkable operational stability , retaining 81% of initial performance after 600 h under maximum power point tracking .
Mesoporous electron transport layer ( ETL ) in printable mesoscopic perovskite solar cells ( p-MPSCs ) enables rapid and selective extraction of photogenerated electrons and facilitates device fabrication without a hole transport layer ( HTL ) . However , the inherent mesoporous architecture introduces abundant interfacial defects that promote undesired non-radiative recombination , limiting the power conversion efficiency ( PCE ) . To address this challenge , an interface field-effect passivation strategy is implemented , leveraging spatially selective cation extrusion . By incorporating tetraphenylphosphonium cations , sterically bulky organic ions that migrate to the perovskite/ETL interface during crystallization , a robust interfacial electrostatic field is introduced . This field simultaneously suppresses the non-radiative recombination by inducing field-effect passivation and enhances the charge extraction through optimizing energy alignment . The synergistic effects yield a PCE enhancement from 4% to 0% . This work underscores the potential of cation-engineered interfacial fields to improve the performance of HTL-free carbon-electrode perovskite photovoltaics .
Highly sensitive detection and in situ tracing analysis of small-molecule biomarkers are particularly indispensable to deciphering the pathogenesis and pathological process . Despite DNA assembly-based barcoding and amplification strategies across the breadth of molecular in situ analysis , an easy-to-design , nonenzymatic , highly efficient , background leakage-avoided , highly specific , and sensitive system is highly required yet is still in its infancy . Spatial confinement nano-assembly can increase the reaction efficiency in a localized isothermal autonomous manner . Here in this work , the DNA assembly that originally relies on random collisions between freely diffusing probes is constructed between two extended linear confined probes , by which a novel confined reaction model named as extended linear confined zipper hybridization chain reaction ( ZHCR ) is proposed . ZHCR can significantly improve the efficiency of probe assembly and enable stable assembly within live cells , providing precise in situ target information . ZHCR system is employed to analyze two thyroid cancer-specific miRNAs , achieving in situ tracing and serum content detection . By integrating machine learning algorithms , ZHCR demonstrates significant potential in thyroid cancer auxiliary diagnosis , establishing a versatile platform that enables both highly sensitive homogeneous detection and in situ analysis of low-abundance nucleic acid fragments .
Genome-wide screens using CRISPR/RNAi can identify new therapeutic vulnerabilities in prostate cancer . In this study , we combine DepMap functional screen data with a large gene expression database ( N = 1012 ) and clinical outcomes to identify potentially druggable targets . Eight genes ( CYC , CYP51A1 , DHFR , EBP , KIF15 , PPM1D , SQLE , and UMPS ) demonstrated strong dependency in cell lines and were also associated with worse prognosis clinically , representing potential therapeutic targets in metastatic prostate cancer . Four of these ( DHFR , EBP , KIF15 , and PPM1D ) demonstrated higher expression in neuroendocrine prostate cancer . Furthermore , all but one ( KIF15 ) were not significantly decreased from pretreatment to posttreatment , suggesting that they may remain targetable postabiraterone therapy . All eight genes showed evidence of protein expression in prostate cancers or cell lines . These potentially druggable targets associated with prostate cancer cell line dependency and worse clinical outcomes have also demonstrated literature support as potential targets , supporting further research into their potential clinical relevance as therapeutic targets in prostate cancer .
BACKGROUND : Islet beta-cell dedifferentiation is a major pathological mechanism of type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) . Forkhead box o1 ( Foxo1 ) is a master regulator of beta-cell dedifferentiation . The mechanisms by which Foxo1 expression is regulated remain unexplored . Epigenetic modification is involved in the occurrence and development of T2D . Ubiquitin-like with PDH and ring finger domains 1 ( Uhrf1 ) , as an important epigenetic regulator , is associated with the maintenance of DNA methylation and histone modification . PURPOSE : This study aimed to discover whether Uhrf1 regulates Foxo1 expression and beta-cell dedifferentiation of rat insulinoma ( INS-1 ) cells . METHODS : RT-qPCR and Western blot were performed to detect the levels of Uhrf1 , Foxo1 , beta-cell dedifferentiation , and proliferation and apoptosis related indicators . ChIP-qPCR was used to analyze the relative lysine trimethylation at positions 4 , 9 , and 27 on histone H3 ( H3K4/9/27me3 ) enrichment on the Foxo1 promoter . Dual-luciferase reporter assay was performed to assess the interaction between Uhrf1 and Foxo Finally , a diabetic rat model was established and the rat islet beta-cells were isolated . RESULTS : Glucolipotoxicity-induced beta-cell dedifferentiation of INS-1 cells , which was restored after Uhrf1 overexpression . Mechanistically , Uhrf1 regulated the H3K4/9/27me3 of the Foxo1 promoter region . Besides , Foxo1 overexpression suppressed beta-cell dedifferentiation of INS-1 cells . Moreover , islet beta-cells isolated from diabetic model rats showed increased dedifferentiation . CONCLUSION : Uhrf1 knockdown promoted H3K27me3 and H3K9me3 and reduced H3K4me3 level in INS-1 cells , resulting in the downregulation of Foxo1 expression , thus promoting beta-cell dedifferentiation .
The construction of hierarchical pores , especially mesopores , usually leads to abundant interfaces with high curvature , while the recognition of the impact of interface curvature upon intrinsic reactivity is yet limited . In this work , a large number of high-curvature interfaces were identified in the as-synthesized mesoporous catalysts ( Cu/Ni-MNC-T ( x ) , MNC = mesoporous nitrogen-doped carbon ) through advanced three-dimensional reconstruction technologies . It was further confirmed that high-curvature interfaces can induce nondegenerate splitting of d-orbital energy levels in the affixing metal sites . As a result , Cu/Ni-MNC-T exhibited a significantly reduced apparent activation energy ( from 7 to 8 kJ . mol ( -1 ) ) and remarkably promoted intrinsic activity ( reduced energy barriers by 60% ) in the hydrogenation of furfural . DFT calculations revealed that the abundant high-curvature interfaces of Cu/Ni-MNC-T accomplished a parallel adsorption of furfural on Cu sites and also facilitated H splitting on Ni sites . Furthermore , in the rate-determining step , the C-OH bond of the key *fur-CHOH intermediate not only exhibited an impaired electron enrichment at the nearby oxygen end but also displayed an elongated bond length , indicating effective C-OH bond activation with the reduced hydrogenation energy barrier . The application feasibility of such a promotion mechanism was additionally verified by the considerable hydrogenation performances of Cu/Ni-MNC-T for a wide scope of aldehydes . FAU - Zhao , Xin
Aging has a profound impact on the immune system , leading to a gradual decline in its function and increased systemic inflammation , collectively known as immunosenescence and inflammaging . These changes make older adults more susceptible to infections , including COVID-19 , and contribute to worse clinical outcomes , such as higher morbidity and mortality rates . This review explores immunological changes associated with aging , including impaired innate immune responses , reduced T- and B-cell function , and altered cytokine profiles . A comprehensive literature search identified relevant studies on the topic , and inclusion criteria focused on studies addressing age-related immune changes and their impact on responses to COVID- The findings underscore the need for targeted healthcare strategies to mitigate the negative effects of aging on immunity and improve immune resilience , and ultimately clinical outcomes and quality of life for this vulnerable population .
A short peptide derived from the occludin protein regulates tight junctions ( TJ ) of the blood-testis barrier and impairs germ cell development . However , the mechanism behind how this peptide regulates TJ and induces cell apoptosis remains unclear . In the present study , an animal model with induced TJ disruption via the short peptide was used to evaluate its impact on spermatogenesis . Here , we demonstrate that the short peptide promoted the infiltration of immune cells into the testicular interstitial tissue , accompanied by upregulation expression of the pro-inflammatory factors interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha . Moreover , mitochondrial fragmentation and mitophagy were upregulated in Sertoli cells and Leydig cells . Consistently , terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling staining revealed extensive apoptosis in the testes during spermatogenesis . Notably , the severity of these disruptions began to attenuate after 27 days , although full functional recovery was not observed . Our findings reveal a novel mechanism wherein peptide-induced immune dysregulation and mitochondrial dysfunction synergistically impair spermatogenesis , potentially via microenvironmental perturbation of the TJ . Overall , these findings could hold valuable insights for the development of non-hormonal male contraceptives .
Heat therapy ( HT ) has been shown to induce physiological adaptations in muscle , including a reduction in the severity of muscle atrophy resulting from unloading . The muscle atrophy caused by unloading can be partially attributed to the dysregulation of Ca ( 2+ ) in the muscle cell , which can activate calpain-mediated proteolysis . The sarco ( endo ) plasmic reticulum Ca ( 2+ ) -ATPase ( SERCA ) is a primary regulator of Ca ( 2+ ) in muscle , and SERCA dysfunction has been repeatedly demonstrated in various models of muscle unloading . Heat shock protein 70 ( HSP70 ) is a heat-inducible chaperone protein that binds to SERCA and protects against its dysfunction . While previous research has shown HT to upregulate HSP70 in rodent muscle , even in the unloaded state , the effects of HT on SERCA function in rodent skeletal muscle under these conditions remain unknown . Here , we characterized the effects of 4 weeks of HT on soleus muscle size , HSP70 expression , SERCA function , and maximal calpain activity in male C57BL/6J mice subjected to muscle unloading through tenotomy . Four weeks of HT preserved the cross-sectional area of soleus myofibres following tenotomy , while also upregulating HSP70 , maintaining SERCA-mediated Ca ( 2+ ) uptake , and reducing maximal calpain activity . Therefore , our research offers new insights into the advantages of HT for muscle health and physiology .
The aim of this study was to investigate the number of muscular branches and muscular branching characteristics of the deep peroneal nerve to the muscles . In this study , a total of 16 lower extremities from 8 male cadavers fixed with formalin , ethanol , and glycerol solution were dissected and the number of muscular branches of the deep peroneal nerve and muscular branching features were investigated . It was observed that 5% of the muscular branches given by the deep peroneal nerve came to the tibialis anterior muscle , 9% to the extensor digitorum longus muscle , 5% to the extensor hallucis longus muscle , 4% to the peroneus tertius muscle and 7% to the peroneus longus muscle . Muscular branches to the tibialis anterior muscle , extensor digitorum longus muscle , and peroneus tertius muscle were generally originated from the deep peroneal nerve in the proximal 1/3 of the leg . Muscular branches to the extensor hallucis longus muscle arose usually from the deep peroneal nerve in the middle 1/3 of the leg . We think that the data we obtained in our research will reduce the rate of important complications such as neurovascular injury in interventions planned for the deep peroneal nerve and the structures adjacent to the nerve . FAU - Goral , Kivanc
Inflammation of the vomeronasal organ ( VNO ) was evaluated in the context of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( EAE ) . The VNO was sampled in mice with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein-induced EAE , and processed for paraffin embedding . The sections were immunohistochemically evaluated for various markers , including ionized calcium binding adaptor molecule 1 ( Iba1 ) , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) , and olfactory marker protein ( OMP ) . Inflammatory cell infiltration was detected in the connective tissues . Both Iba1-positive macrophages and MPO-positive neutrophils infiltrated the VNO of EAE , with increased secretion of mucus into the lumen . The intensity of the OMP-positive immunoreaction was decreased in the vomeronasal sensory epithelium of EAE-induced mice . We postulate that the inflammatory response of the VNO in EAE is associated with dysfunction of the accessory olfactory system . FAU - Jung , Kyungsook
INTRODUCTION : Though evidence suggests that multiple myeloma ( MM ) in adolescents and young adults ( AYA ) ( < 50 years ) has significant biological differences from that in older individuals ( >/= 50 years ) , the understanding of the disease in this group is limited . We examined the outcomes in AYA hospitalizations with MM . METHODS : Using the National Inpatient Sample database , we examined sociodemographic , hospital-level , and clinical characteristics between AYA and older populations with MM . RESULTS : Among 183 846 non-elective MM hospitalizations , 13 765 ( 5% ) were AYA . There was a higher proportion of males in the AYA group compared to the older group ( 6% vs . 8% , p < 001 ) but a lower distribution of non-Hispanic Whites ( 6% vs . 7% , p < 001 ) . The AYA group had lower odds of mortality ( aOR : 59 , p < 001 ) relative to the older adult group . They were more likely to receive autologous stem cell transplantation ( aOR : 80 , p < 001 ) but had similar odds of acute venous thromboembolism ( aOR : 87 ; p = 24 ) and severe sepsis ( aOR : 89 ; p = 52 ) . CONCLUSION : We highlight the unique characteristics and outcomes of AYA-MM , emphasizing the need for their greater representation in clinical research . Additionally , we underscore the importance of further investigation to better understand and optimize survivorship care in AYA patients with MM .
Glut1 Deficiency Syndrome ( Glut1DS ) has emerged as a treatable , but complex entity . Increasing data on pathogenic mechanisms , phenotype , genotype , and ketogenic dietary therapies ( KDT ) are available , as summarized in this review . Many challenges remain : novel symptoms emerge and vary with age . In Glut1DS , KDT in pregnancy and the clinical features in neonates and adults are poorly understood . KDT are ineffective in some patients for reasons yet unknown . Research reaches beyond the concept of brain energy depletion by impaired GLUT1-mediated glucose transfer across the blood-brain barrier . Novel concepts investigate alternative substrates , transport mechanisms , and metabolic interactions of different brain cell types . Future , yet currently unavailable prospects are neonatal screening for Glut1DS , reliable biomarkers , predictors for outcome , and alternative therapies , along with and beyond KDT .
BACKGROUND : ZNF384 is a C2H2-type zinc finger protein ( ZNF ) which is implicated in DNA double-strand break ( DSB ) repair through the classical non-homologous end-joining ( cNHEJ ) pathway . AIMS : To clarify the regulatory mechanisms involving ZNF384 in colon adenocarcinoma ( COAD ) . METHODS AND RESULTS : First , we conducted a differential expression gene ( DEG ) analysis of mRNA and lncRNA using TCGA-COAD RNA-Seq data . We also identified ZNF384-related mRNAs through Pearson ' s correlation coefficient calculation and conducted weighted gene co-expression network analysis ( WGCNA ) for these genes , leading to the identification of a cluster of 331 genes with strongly positive correlation to tumor , 84 of which overlapped with DEGs . Gene functional analysis showed enrichment of genes in DNA repair , replication fork , and cell cycle checkpoint signaling pathways . Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network analysis of these 84 genes led to the identification of the top 20 key mRNAs . Then we employed three machine learning methods to refine our selection of candidate genes from these intersecting mRNAs . We constructed a competitive endogenous RNA ( ceRNA ) network and identified two significant intersecting miRNAs , miR-20b-5p and miR-424-5p , which have been shown to act as a tumor suppressor gene and an oncogene , respectively . Additionally , we found that KIF14 and KIF18B are regulated by these two miRNAs in this ceRNA network , particularly in DNA damage repair and cell cycle . Finally , validation using an external dataset from the GEO database confirmed their expression patterns . CONCLUSION : The current study clarifies the mechanisms of how miR-20b-5p and miR-424-5p work in colon cancer and underscores their predictive capabilities in colon cancer .
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the blood vessels caused by elevated levels of lipoproteins . The hyperlipoproteinemia triggers a series of cellular changes , particularly the activation of the macrophages , which play a crucial role in the development and progression of atherosclerosis . The presence of free cholesterol ( FC ) in lipoproteins may contribute to macrophage stimulation . However , the mechanisms linking the accumulation of FC in macrophages to their pro-inflammatory activation remain poorly understood . Our research found a positive correlation between the number of pro-inflammatory macrophages ( CD14 + CD16 + CD36 ( high ) ) in visceral adipose tissue and the levels of LDL-C and cholesterol remnant particles in 56 healthy people . In contrast , the proportion of anti-inflammatory , alternatively activated macrophages ( CD14 + CD16-CD163+ ) correlated negatively with HDL-C . Additionally , our in vitro study demonstrated that macrophages accumulating FC promoted a pro-inflammatory response , activating the TNF-alpha and chemokine CCL3 genes . Furthermore , the accumulation of FC in macrophages alters the surface receptors on macrophages ( CD206 and CD16 ) and increases cellular granularity . Notably , the CD36 surface receptor and the ACAT and CD36 genes did not show a response . These results suggest a link between excessive FC accumulation and systemic inflammation to underlie the development of atherosclerosis .
Genetic variation in the 9p3 chromosomal region has one of the strongest associations known for coronary artery disease ( CAD ) that often leads to myocardial infarction ( MI ) . This risk locus encodes a long noncoding RNA , ANRIL , which has been suggested to regulate the neighboring cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors 2A and B ( Cdkn2A/B ) , the key regulators of cell proliferation . In this study , we aimed to clarify the role of the 9p3 risk locus in acute and chronic myocardial ischemia in mice . Mice carrying a deletion equivalent to the human CAD risk interval ( Chr4 ( Delta70kb/Delta70kb ) ) and wild type mice were exposed to MI and followed until 5 days or 4 weeks . In the wild type mice , expression of a lncRNA , Ak148321 , was increased after MI , and Cdkn2a was upregulated in chronic ischemia . Chr4 ( Delta70kb/Delta70kb ) downregulated both Cdkn2a/b , but this did not affect the survival or cardiac pathology after MI . These results suggest that the 9p3 locus is activated in response to cardiac ischemia . However , deficiency in the risk locus does not play a role in the cardiac pathophysiology in mice , supporting the studies suggesting the risk locus being more involved in the development of CAD , rather than the subsequent MI .
Neurodegenerative diseases , including Alzheimer ' s and Parkinson ' s disease , affect an increasing number of people in aging societies , dramatically reducing the quality of life of those affected . Hence , intensive research efforts are aimed at understanding the molecular mechanisms of the disease progress , with the hope for developing effective therapeutic strategies . The progress of neurodegenerative diseases is associated with a complex activity of the immune system in the brain tissue . Carbohydrate-binding proteins ( lectins ) play a key role in the inflammation-related activation of microglia . Siglecs , maintained in an active state by binding to sialic acid-terminated glycoconjugates , help establish homeostasis by protecting nerve cells from phagocytosis and preventing triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 ( TREM2 ) activation . Upon activation , microglia release sialidase , an enzyme that cleaves sialic acid residues from glycoconjugates , thereby exposing galactose as the next monosaccharide in the glycan chain . After losing siglec-mediated protection , the glycan becomes a ligand for Galectin-3 ( Gal-3 ) . Overexpression of this lectin under inflammatory conditions activates TREM2 and TLR4 signaling pathways , enhances the phagocytic activity of microglia and leads to tissue damage . Blocking Gal-3 interactions with the thiodigalactoside inhibitor ( TD-139 ) appears to be a promising novel approach to pharmacologically alleviating neuroinflammation . FAU - Olejnik , Beata
The recognition of endogenous peptides by HLA class I plays a crucial role in CD8+ T cell immune responses and human adaptive cell immune . Thus , the prediction of HLA class I-peptide binding affinities is always the core issue for the research of immune recognition and vaccine development . In this study , an evolutionary scale model ( ESM ) combined with parallel CNN blocks and a cross attention mechanism was used to construct a novel ESMpHLA model for predicting HLA class I binding peptides . Based on the 91 , 560 binding peptides of 41 HLA-A alleles , 56 , 731 of 50 HLA-B alleles and 2444 of 10 HLA-C alleles , the ESMpHLA model was successfully established and achieved satisfying prediction performances with the overall accuracy and AUC values of 874 and 938 for the test dataset . The results indicate that the ESMpHLA model performs well in dealing with different HLA class I 2-field alleles as well as the peptides with different lengths . Then , the generalisation ability of the ESMpHLA model was validated by an independent test dataset compiled from recent IEDB weekly benchmark datasets . The results showed that the ESMpHLA model achieved the highest ROC-AUC and PR-AUC values when compared with the latest BVMHC , CapsNet-MHC , STMHCpan and BVLSTM models . In addition , two ensemble models were also established by integrating the above 5 deep learning models using soft-voting and hard-voting strategies .
Begonia semperflorens ( Begoniaceae ) , native to South America , is widely grown in the tropics for vibrant , lasting blooms . In July 2021 and 2022 , a leaf rot disease was observed on B . semperflorens in nurseries in Nanning , Guangxi Province , China . The incidence of the disease across the survey area ( 27 ha ) was ~35% ( n=150 ) . The disease initially appeared as irregular brown water-soaked spots that expanded into grayish-white lesions with brown margins , leading to leaf softening and wilting . To isolate the pathogen , leaf tissues ( ~ 5 mm2 ) from lesion borders , surface disinfected in 1% NaOCl for 2 min , rinsed thrice in sterile water , plated on potato dextrose agar ( PDA ) , and incubated at 28 degrees C for 3 days ( 12 h photoperiod ) . A total of 22 fungal isolates with similar morphological characteristics were obtained and purified via the single-spore isolation method . On PDA , colonies were flat with dense white aerial mycelia , white . On synthetic nutrient poor agar ( SNA ) , colonies were convex with sparse aerial mycelia . Microconidia on SNA were oval to subcylindrical , smooth , thin-walled , hyaline , 0-1 septate , measuring 8-7 x 2-5 mum ( n=60 ) . Macroconidia were falcate , slender , straight to curved , hyaline , apical cell papillate to hooked , basal cell barely to distinctly notched , 3 to 6 septate , measuring 4 to 7 x 7 to 9 mum ( n = 60 ) . Chlamydospores were smooth-walled and globose to subglobose . Conidiophores were straight or curved , smooth , thin-walled , mostly simple , with single monophialides . The internal transcribed spacer ( ITS ) , partial translation elongation factor-1 alpha ( TEF-1alpha ) , and RNA polymerase second largest subunit ( RPB2 ) genes of the representative isolate HT-2D were amplified and sequenced using the primer pairs ITS1/ITS4 ( White et al . 1990 ) , EF-1/EF-2 ( O ' Donnell et al . , 1998 ) , and 5f2/11ar ( Liu et al . 1999 , Reeb et al . 2004 ) . The ITS ( OQ048269 ) and RPB2 ( OP994263 ) sequences showed 3% ( 532/536 bp ) and 4% ( 832/837 bp ) identity with those of Fusarium parceramosum CBS 115695 ( JX435199 and JX435249 , respectively ) , and TEF-1alpha ( OP994261 ) showed 100% ( 662/662 bp ) identity with the corresponding locus of F . parceramosum NRRL 31158 ( DQ246916 ) ( Sandoval-Denis et al . , 2019 ) . Furthermore , multilocus phylogenetic analysis based on ITS , TEF-1alpha , and RPB2 confirmed that isolate HT-2D clustered with F . parceramosum . Thus , based on morphological and molecular characteristics , the isolates were identified as F . parceramosum ( synonym : Neocosmospora parceramosa ) ( Guarnaccia et al . , 2022 ; O ' Donnell et al . , 2020 ; Sandoval-Denis et al . , 2019 ) . To test pathogenicity , three healthy leaves on each of three B . semperflorens plants were inoculated with a 10-mul HT-2D conidial suspension ( 1 x 106 conidia/mL ) . Three control leaves were treated with sterilized water . All plants were incubated in a greenhouse ( 26 degrees C , 12 h photoperiod , ~ 90% humidity ) within plastic bags . The experiments were repeated three times with three replicates in each . Three days after inoculation , B . semperflorens leaves exhibited irregular lesions with pale yellowish-brown edges , which aligned with field observations , while the control plants remained healthy . To fulfill Koch ' s postulates , the F . parceramosum isolates were consistently re-isolated from the infected leaves and confirmed by morphology and sequencing ( ITS , TEF-1alpha , and RPB2 ) , with no fungi detected in controls . This is the first report of F . parceramosum causing leaf rot on B . semperflorens . FAU - Su , Jiali
Bacterial gall caused by Pseudomonas amygdali pv . loropetali ( PAL ) is a prevalent problem on Loropetalum chinense shrubs in commercial plant nurseries . A method was developed to reliably detect PAL on the surface of loropetalum twigs . A whole genome analysis resulted in the identification of a locus encoding an AraC regulator that is specific to PAL . A pair of primers and a TaqMan probe were designed based on a 71-base pair sequence in this locus . Positive results of PCR amplification were obtained with genomic DNA samples from all PAL strains but not from those of other Pseudomonas species , Agrobacterium tumefaciens , or Burkholderia contaminans . Melting curve analysis demonstrated that all PAL PCR products shared the same melting temperature of 79 degrees C . TaqMan-based qPCR analysis of the serially diluted genomic DNA from PAL strain AAC exhibited a strong linear response for regressed cycle threshold ( Ct ) and logarithm copy values ( Adjusted R2 = 9944 ) with a high amplification efficiency ( E = 96 ) , while the linear response ( Adjusted R2 = 8885 ) for PAL genomic DNA extracted from serially diluted bacterial cell suspension had a reduction in detection sensitivity . The limits of detection and quantification of PAL from the spiked plant twigs ( diameter x length = ~45 x 45 cm ) were 873 and 14 , 724 cells , respectively , using a modified Promega Wizard extraction protocol . These limits of the qPCR method , while restrictive , still allow a practical detection of PAL strains associated with plant tissue that can be utilized in epidemiological studies to develop disease management options . FAU - Jia , Jiayuan
BACKGROUND : V-set and immunoglobulin domain containing 4 ( VSIG4 ) is a B7-family-related protein almost exclusively expressed on macrophages . The difference in its expression mediates the dynamic transformation of the polarization state of macrophages , but the underlying mechanism is still unclear . We sought to reveal the correlation between VSIG4 and the polarization of tumour-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and the immune escape of tumour cells in colorectal cancer ( CRC ) . METHODS : THP-1 monocyte-derived macrophages expressing different levels of VSIG4 were used for in vitro investigations . In addition , the co-culture system was used to verify the effect of tumour cells on the expression of VSIG4 in macrophages , and the effect of VSIG4 expression level on tumour cells in turn . Subcutaneous xenograft models evaluated the tumour growth inhibition efficacy of VSIG4 blockade as monotherapy and combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) . RESULTS : CRC cells secreted lactate to promote VSIG4 expression in macrophages . On the contrary , VSIG4 promoted macrophage M2 polarization and induced malignant progression of tumour cells by promoting M2 macrophage secretion of heparin-bound epidermal growth factor . In vivo experiments confirmed that knockdown VSIG4 inhibited tumour growth and improved the efficacy of ICIs therapy . Mechanistically , lactate secreted by CRC cells promoted its expression by influencing the epigenetic modification of VSIG4 in macrophages . In addition , VSIG4 enhanced the fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) of macrophages and upregulated PPAR-gamma expression by activating the JAK2/STAT3 pathway , which ultimately induced M2 polarization of macrophages . Downregulation of VSIG4 or blocking of FAO reversed the M2 polarization process of macrophages . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings provide a molecular basis for VSIG4 to influence TAMs polarization by regulating the reprogramming of FAO , suggesting that targeting VSIG4 in macrophages could enhance the ICIs efficacy and represent a new combination therapy strategy for immunotherapy of CRC . KEY POINTS : Colorectal cancer cells secrete lactate to upregulate VSIG4 in macrophages via the H3K18la-METTL14-m6A axis . VSIG4 promotes fatty acid oxidation of macrophages and drives its M2-type polarization . These VSIG4-expressing M2 macrophages promote tumour progression and an immunosuppressive microenvironment . Inhibition of VSIG4 expression can synergistically enhance the therapeutic effect of anti-PD-1 antibody .
To register their device , manufacturers of automated differential cell counters ( ADCC ) are required to demonstrate satisfactory precision that meets regulatory standards such as those in 21 CFR 5220 in the United States . Mixed-effects models can be used for the estimation of variance components from a range of factors ( operators , days , reagent lots , etc . ) to characterize the " within-laboratory " or " across laboratories " analytical error associated with ADCCs for a variety of samples representing a plethora of measurand intervals . However , this task can be daunting and time-consuming due to the increasing complexity of the number of blood-associated parameters reported by those devices and the iterative calculations over numerous factors . In this paper , we propose a simple-to-follow R algorithm that overcomes these challenges and provides a comprehensive and effective estimation of variance components in a regulatory-ready reporting format .
Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) is one of the key strategies for treating various haematologic malignancies . Although there are haematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) in umbilical cord blood ( UCB ) , the number is limited . Thus , the purpose of this work was to investigate if endogenous hydrogen sulphide ( HS ) could encourage the ex vivo expansion of HSCs produced from UCB ( UCB-HSCs ) . The CD34 ( + ) and CD34 ( + ) CD38 ( - ) cells were enriched and separated by immunomagnetic beads . UCB-HSCs were treated with overexpression plasmids of beta-synthase ( CBS ) , cystathionine gamma-lyase ( CSE ) , 3-mercaptopyruvate sulphurtransferase ( MPST ) and/or stimulated with AG490 ( JAK2/STAT3 inhibitor ) for 4 , 7 or 10 days , respectively . The content of HS in cells was detected using its assay kit . The proportion and quantity of CD34 ( + ) , CD34 ( + ) CD38 ( - ) and CXCR4 ( + ) CD34 ( + ) cells as well as the ALDH1A1 ( + ) CD34 ( + ) cells in CD34 ( + ) cells were detected by flow cytometry . qPCR was used to detect the expression of CD34 , CXCR4 and ALDH1A1 in CD34 ( + ) cells . Western blot was used to detect the activation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway in CD34 ( + ) cells . The results showed that endogenous HS enhanced the ex vivo expansion of CD34 ( + ) and CD34 ( + ) CD38 ( - ) cells , upregulated the expression of CXCR4 and ALDH1A1 during ex vivo expansion of HSCs , and promoted the JAK2/STAT3 pathway in CD34 ( + ) cells . However , the aforementioned effects of endogenous HS were partially reversed by AG In conclusion , endogenous HS promotes the activation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway to facilitate the ex vivo expansion of UCB-HSCs .
The Kinesin Eg5 motor protein is essential for the formation of the mitotic spindles and chromosome segregation , which is necessary for cell division . The inhibition of Eg5 has emerged as a potential therapeutic strategy for inhibiting the uncontrolled proliferation of cancer cells . This study aims to identify inhibitors targeting the allosteric site I of Eg To this end , a hierarchical virtual screening was applied to screen the ZINC20-Anodyne compound library comprising approximately 11 million druglike compounds . The procedure includes a shape similarity screening , a pharmacophore screening , docking studies with subsequent re-scorings , molecular dynamics simulations , and Molecular Mechanics-Generalized Born Surface Area ( MM-GBSA ) binding free energy calculations and resulted in the selection of four compounds for Eg5 inhibition assays . One compound displays an IC value of 29 microM , while the remaining three compounds show weaker inhibition of Kinesin Eg As such , structurally novel Kinesin Eg5 inhibitors have been obtained for further hit-to-lead optimization programs .
Evernic acid ( EA ) has emerged as a potential therapeutic agent with its low toxicity and anticancer properties . In this study , the anticancer effect of EA on ovarian cancer cell lines and normal ovarian surface epithelial cells ( OSE ) was evaluated . The antiproliferative effect of EA was evaluated by xCELLigence Real-Time Cell analysis , colony formation assay , and acridine orange and DAPI staining methods . Genotoxicity analysis was performed by comet assay . The effect of EA on cell migration was analyzed by wound healing assay . The potential of EA to induce apoptosis was also determined by evaluating the changes in gene and protein expression levels by qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis , respectively . EA was found to be a promising potential therapeutic agent for ovarian cancer without showing significant cytotoxic effect on normal cells . Furthermore , EA decreased the ability of ovarian cancer cells for migration , increased the rate of apoptosis by inhibiting BIRC5 and activating CASP3 , triggered cell cycle arrest in the G2/M phase , and caused a decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential and genotoxic effects . The results have shown that EA could be an effective candidate molecule for ovarian cancer treatment .
The cell-cycle regulated methyltransferase SET8 is the sole enzyme responsible for the mono-methylation of histone H4 at lysine 20 ( H4K20 ) that is the substrate for di- and trimethylation mainly by SUV4-20Hs enzymes . Both SET8 and SUV4-20Hs have been implicated in regulating DNA repair pathway choice through the inverse affinities of BRCA1-BARD1 and 53BP1 complexes for disparate methylation states of H4K However , the precise and respective functions of each H4K20 methyltransferase in DNA repair pathways remain to be clarified . Here , we show that SET8 acts as a potent chromatin inhibitor of homologous recombination and that its timely degradation during DNA replication is essential for the spontaneous nuclear focal accumulation of BRCA1 and RAD51 complexes during the S phase . Strikingly , the anti-recombinogenic function of SET8 is independent of SUV4-20 h activity but requires the subsequent recruitment of the ubiquitin ligase RNF Moreover , we show that SET8-induced BRCA1 inhibition is not necessarily related to the loss of BARD1 binding to unmethylated histone H4K Instead , it is largely caused by the accumulation of 53BP1 in a manner depending on the concerted activities of SET8 and RNF168 on chromatin . Conversely , the lack of SET8 and H4K20 mono-methylation on newly assembly chromatin after DNA replication led to the untimely accumulation of BRCA1 on chromatin at the subsequent G1 phase . Altogether , these results establish the de novo activity of SET8 on chromatin as a primordial epigenetic lock of the BRCA1-mediated HR pathway during the cell . FAU - Perez , Yannick
To link IFNgamma-secretion levels of epitope-specific T-cells with their TCRalphabeta , we coated nanovials with pHLA-I to capture and activate epitope-specific T-cells and their secreted IFNgamma , followed by index-sorting and TCRalphabeta sequencing . We demonstrate that nanovials are a promising tool to link single epitope-specific TCRalphabeta clonotypes to the cell ' s functional properties .
For swimming bacteria near surfaces , pairwise encounters inevitably occur and impact their social behavior . However , we know little about how the encounter events influence bacterial dynamics due to the limitations in tracking interplaying bacteria in 3D . Herein , we elucidated the motions of encountering E . coli using a combination of 3D holographic tracking experiments and hydrodynamic simulations . We find encounters with other cells induce transient yet remarkable fluctuations in the swimming speed and angle of E . coli , concurrently diminishing their temporal correlations , in contrast to solitary cells . Notably , bacteria approaching each other in a face-to-face fashion both accelerate , whereas they both decelerate during pursuits . Generally , the motion of a pair of smooth-swimming E . coli is dictated by the relative angle , velocity , and intercellular distance , as validated by hydrodynamic simulations . The presence of the surface mitigates the velocity spikes during the encounter process . Additionally , the encounter process influences the timing of tumbles , i . e . , tumble tends to occur before the two bacteria get in close proximity . Despite the impact of one encounter being transient , we reveal that smooth-swimming E . coli gains propulsion advantage from the encounter , thus providing insights into bacterial physiology and guidance for designing active microdevices .
Ongoing improvements of genetically encoded fluorescent proteins have enhanced cellular localization studies and performance of bio-sensors , such as environmentally or mechanically sensitive FRET pairs , in cell biological and biophysical research . The brightest yellow fluorescent protein , widely used in these studies is YPet , derived from the jellyfish Aequorea victoria via the GFP derivative Venus . YPet dimerizes at concentrations used in cellular studies ( K ( D ) ( 1-2 ) = 4 muM ) which impacts quantitative interpretation of emission intensity , rotational freedom , energy transfer and lifetime . Although YPet is nearly 30% brighter than Venus , no atomic structures of YPet have been reported to ascertain the structural differences leading to the higher brightness , possibly due to the tendency to dimerize or oligomerize . Here we report properties of a new YPet derivative , mCLIFY , a monomeric , bright , yellow , and long-lived fluorescent protein created by circular permutation of YPet and substitution of the amino acid residues thought to mediate dimerization . mCLIFY retains the advantageous photophysical properties of YPet but does not dimerize at least up to 40 muM concentration . We determined the atomic structure of mCLIFY at 57 A resolution . Extensive characterization of the photophysical and structural properties of YPet and mCLIFY allowed us to elucidate the bases of their long lifetimes , enhanced brightness and the difference in propensity to dimerize .
Eukaryotic interphase chromosomes maintain a three-dimensional conformation within the nucleus and undergo fluctuations . However , the analysis of chromosome conformational fluctuations has been mainly limited to chromosome conformation capture data that record the contact frequencies between chromosomal regions . Herein , we investigated chromosome fluctuations as polymers based on experimental data from sequential fluorescence in situ hybridization ( seqFISH ) + using a multiomics methodology . To describe the principal modes of chromosome fluctuations , we applied principal component analysis to the three-dimensional conformation information of single chromosomes in 446 mouse embryonic stem cells ( mESCs ) obtained from seqFISH+ data analysis for spatial genomics and signals of nuclear factors ( histone marks , repeat DNAs , and proteins in interchromosomal nuclear compartments ) . We found that chromosome fluctuations exhibit both isotropic and anisotropic modes . The isotropic conformational fluctuations of all chromosome types tended to synchronize each other , reflecting extrinsic heterogeneity in chromosome conformation that is independent of the cell cycle . In contrast , anisotropic conformational fluctuations , occurring in a spindle-like shape , were associated with the interactions between repeat DNAs and nuclear factors . These results highlight the importance of dissecting cell cycle-independent nuclear organization based on the conformational folding of chromosomes and the interactions between genomic regions and nuclear factors .
Upon antigen recognition , T cells undergo rapid cell proliferation and differentiation , which is accompanied by a drastic change in cellular metabolism . The ADP-ribosylation factor ( Arf ) pathway contributes to cellular homeostasis by orchestrating vesicle trafficking , and our previous study using mice lacking both Arf1 and Arf6 ( Arf-KO ) revealed that Th17-mediated autoimmune diseases were markedly suppressed in Arf-KO mice though its precise mechanism remained elusive . Here , we show that Arf pathway modulates cellular metabolism in T cell activation and survival . We found that the lack of Arf1 and Arf6 resulted in hyper-activation of mTORC1 , a master regulator of cellular metabolism , as well as unresolved endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress , leading to exaggerated apoptosis during T cell activation . We further demonstrated that treatment with IL-21 , a potent inducer of Tfh differentiation , rescued Arf-KO T cells from apoptosis by attenuating ER stress in vitro . Accordingly , antigen-specific antibody production and host defenses against infections such as Leishmania major or Heligmosomoides polygyrus infections were significantly preserved in Arf-KO mice . Taken together , these findings provide mechanistic insights linking the Arf pathway with T cells homeostasis during activation and identify the Arf pathway as an ideal therapeutic target for autoimmune diseases with a low risk of opportunistic infections .
BACKGROUND Midazolam , a commonly used sedative , faces challenges in cancer therapy due to its central nervous system ( CNS ) toxicity and suboptimal targeting of tumor sites . This study explores the use of poly ( lactic-co-glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) nanoparticles to enhance the delivery of Midazolam , aiming to improve antitumor efficacy while minimizing CNS toxicity . MATERIAL AND METHODS We developed Midazolam-loaded PLGA nanoparticles ( Midazolam PLGA NPs ) using the ultrasonic emulsification-solvent evaporation technique . These nanoparticles were thoroughly characterized for particle size , polydispersity index ( PDI ) , zeta potential , encapsulation efficiency , drug loading , and stability . We assessed cellular uptake and cytotoxicity via the MTT assay , while organ accumulation was quantified using high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( HPLC-MS ) . The safety profile was evaluated by monitoring body weight changes in A549 tumor-bearing mice . RESULTS The Midazolam PLGA nanoparticles exhibited a spherical shape , uniform size , high encapsulation efficiency , and excellent colloidal stability . In vitro release studies indicated that 51% of Midazolam was released within 24 hours . Enhanced cellular uptake was noted for the nanoparticles in comparison to the solution , with significant accumulation at tumor sites and increased free drug release . The nanoparticles effectively killed tumor cells while sparing normal tissues , demonstrating superior antitumor activity compared to the Midazolam solution . Importantly , treated mice maintained stable body weight , suggesting a favorable safety profile . CONCLUSIONS Midazolam-loaded PLGA nanoparticles present a promising approach for targeted cancer therapy . They enhance encapsulation , stability , and selective tumor cell cytotoxicity , resulting in greater antitumor efficacy with minimal adverse effects compared to conventional Midazolam solutions . FAU - Jiao , Jinghua
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) is a prevalent malignant tumor of the upper respiratory tract . Ubiquitin-specific protease 39 ( USP39 ) has been identified as an oncogenic regulator in various malignant tumors ; however , its specific roles in LSCC remain unexplored . In this study , immunohistochemistry was employed to assess USP39 expression in LSCC tissues and adjacent normal tissues . Subsequently , a USP39 knockdown cellular model was established to investigate its effects on cell proliferation , apoptosis , and migration through Celigo cell counting , colony formation , flow cytometry , and transwell assays , respectively . A tumor-bearing animal model was established to verify the impact of USP39 on LSCC In Vivo . Co-immunoprecipitation ( Co-IP ) assay was used to validate protein-protein interaction . Our results suggested that USP39 was highly expressed in laryngeal cancer tissues , which exhibited a correlation with lymphatic metastasis . In Vitro loss-of-function experiments revealed that depletion of USP39 suppressed cell proliferation and migration , and induced apoptosis in LSCC cells . Furthermore , silencing USP39 restrained tumor growth silencing USP39 In Vivo . Mechanistically , USP39 was found to interact with and upregulated Aurora kinase B ( AURKB ) . AURKB depletion attenuated the protumorigenic effects of USP39 overexpression . Additionally , USP39 enhanced ERK1/2 phosphorylation , and pharmacological inhibition of ERK1/2 abrogated USP39-driven proliferative and clonogenic capacities . In summary , this study underscores the significance of USP39 in the development of LSCC , positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for LSCC treatment .
OBJECTIVE : In the present study , molecular subtypes were determined , programmed death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) and tumor-associated immune cells ( TAICs ) were quantitatively detected , and their effect on prognosis in uterine carcinosarcoma ( UCS ) was analyzed . METHODS : The study included 65 UCS cases . Direct sequencing of POLE exonuclease domain and immunohistochemistry of mismatch repair ( MMR ) deficiency proteins and p53 were used to stratify molecular subtypes . QuPath was used for quantitative immunohistochemical detection of PD-L1 and TAICs . The chi square test was used to determine the association between molecular subtypes and expression of PD-L1 and TAICs . The Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards regression were used for plotting and survival analysis . RESULTS : In 65 UCS cases , 1 case ( 5% ) was POLE ultramutated ( POLEmut ) subtype , 11 cases ( 9% ) were deficient MMR ( dMMR ) subtype , 32 cases ( 3% ) were p53 mutant ( p53mut ) subtype , and 21 cases ( 3% ) were nonspecific molecular profile ( NSMP ) subtype . The positive density of PD-L1 in tumor ( p=022 ) , CD8 in stroma ( p=036 ) , and CD163 in stroma ( p=025 ) were significantly associated with molecular subtypes . The patients with POLEmut and dMMR subtypes had a relatively better prognosis trend than patients with NSMP and p53mut subtypes . The patients with high positive density of PD-L1 in tumor had significantly better prognosis ; however , high positive density of CD163 in stroma showed significantly worse prognosis . CONCLUSION : UCS could be classified into four molecular subtypes associated with prognosis . PD-L1 and M2 macrophages could effectively predict the prognosis of patients with UCS .
Neural stem/progenitor cells ( NSPCs ) operate in specialized niches of the adult mammalian brain , where their proliferative and differentiative potential is modulated by a myriad of factors . Emerging evidence sheds light on the interaction between cannabinoids and neurotrophic factors underlying a major regulatory force of NSPC dynamics . Previous data show that cannabinoid type 2 receptors ( CB2Rs ) tightly regulate the actions of brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) , a neurotrophic factor highly upregulated during physical exercise . However , further research into the effects of exercise-associated neurotrophic factors in the regulation of NSPCs is still necessary . Therefore , we aimed at exploring the effects of exercise-associated factors in postnatal hippocampal neurogenesis and how CB2Rs regulate this process . By using dentate gyrus-derived neurospheres and treating them with a combination of exercise-associated factors , as an in vitro proxy for exercise , we found that these factors significantly promoted cell proliferation , an action partially reduced when CB2Rs were blocked . Moreover , CB2Rs were shown to be required for the actions of this exercise-mimicking cocktail in early neuronal commitment and differentiation . However , late neuronal differentiation promoted by exercise-associated factors remained unaltered in the presence of CB2R ligands . Together , these data suggest that CB2R actions are preponderant in early stages of hippocampal neurogenesis promoted by exercise . Astroglial late differentiation was also accelerated by a combination of exercise-associated factors , an effect prevented by CB2R blockage . This work provides a deeper understanding of the mechanisms underlying the actions of cannabinoids and exercise on NSPC regulation , highlighting the role of CB2R in modulating exercise-induced hippocampal neurogenesis .
Memory T helper ( Th ) cells , generated in response to immunogenic challenges , are crucial in orchestrating adaptive immune responses . Acetylcholine ( ACh ) , a key neurotransmitter of the parasympathetic nervous system , modulates immune function via muscarinic ACh receptors ( mAChRs ) . This study investigates the role of mAChRs , particularly the M3 muscarinic ACh receptor ( M3R ) , in regulating the cytokine and chemokine profile and NF-kappaB p65 activity in primary human memory Th cells . Memory Th cells were isolated from healthy donors and stimulated with anti-CD3/CD28/CD2 in the presence of oxotremorine-M ( M1R-M5R agonist ) , atropine ( M1R-M5R antagonist ) , or J104129 ( M3R-selective antagonist ) . CHRM1-CHRM5 expression was quantified using RT-qPCR . M3R and phosphorylated NF-kappaB p65 were analyzed by Western blot . IFN-gamma , IL-17A , and IL-4 were assessed by ELISA , while intracellular cytokine and chemokine receptor expression were measured by flow cytometry . CHRM3 knockout was performed using CRISPR-Cas Memory Th cells expressed all 5 mAChR subtypes . Oxotremorine-M increased IFN-gamma and IL-17A while reducing IL-4 in an atropine-sensitive manner . Blocking or knocking out M3R prevented oxotremorine-M-induced increases in IFN-gamma and IL-17A , but the suppression of IL-4 remained unchanged . Stimulation of mAChRs , particularly M3R , enhanced NF-kappaB p65 activity but did not affect chemokine receptor expression , cell proliferation , viability , or M3R levels . These findings indicate that mAChRs , including M3R , drive a pro-inflammatory memory Th-cell response through NF-kappaB p65 activation , while IL-4 suppression occurs independently of M3R . Targeting M3R specifically may provide a strategy for modulating adaptive immunity and treating inflammatory diseases .
Cell lines that produce non-originator versions of the National Institute of Standards and Technology ( NIST ) monoclonal antibody reference material 8671 ( NISTmAb ) are invaluable to the biopharmaceutical industry because , unlike typical commercial cell lines , they can be used on a collaborative and noncompetitive basis for bioprocess development . NIST has generated NS0 clones , NISTCHO research-grade test material 10197 and reference material 8675 NISTCHO to fill this need . We set out to optimize seed train procedures , media and feeding strategies , and stirred tank and rocking bioreactor processes to facilitate our studies on the effects of cell substrate and bioreactor process parameters on non-originator NISTmAb quality attributes . For two NS0 clones and NISTCHO , we improved the baseline methods for seed train culture and demonstrated the critical roles of agitation and gassing strategies for stirred-tank bioreactor operations . For NISTCHO we also tested fed-batch and perfusion processes in rocking bioreactors , identifying several critical process parameters and in-process controls . In this work , for the NIST NS0-59 and NS0-66 clones , we demonstrated that shake flask geometry was critical for culturing a highly viable seed train with a high growth rate and exhibited impacts of feeds , agitation , and gassing during initial bioreactor process development . We identified agitation rates and gassing strategy as critical process parameters for NISTCHO stirred-tank bioreactor operations and established processes for fed-batch and perfusion rocking bioreactor operations . We anticipate this work to benefit the growing number of researchers employing non-originator NISTmAb-expressing cell lines to support precompetitive innovation in biomanufacturing . FAU - Fratz-Berilla , Erica J
Higher circulating SARS-CoV-2 IgG titers correlate with SARS-CoV-2 ex vivo viral neutralization , but how well this translates to clinical protection in the real-world setting is unclear . In a prospective cohort study , we enrolled 44 SARS-CoV-2 negative , confirmed SARS-CoV-2 close contacts . Receptor-binding domain ( RBD ) and full-spike IgG and SARS-CoV-2 memory B-cell frequencies were measured at exposure , and participants were serially tested for incident infection over 14 days . Those who developed SARS-CoV-2 infection had significantly lower RBD titers , but not memory B-cell frequencies . An RBD IgG titer >6321 BAU/ml was associated with a reduced SARS-CoV-2 acquisition risk ( HR 32 , 95% CI 13-81 ) , while an RBD IgG titer >456 BAU/ml was associated with a reduced moderate or severe COVID-19 risk ( HR 15 , 95% CI 03-81 ) , identifying this threshold as a correlate of protection .
OBJECTIVES : This study aimed to investigate the impact of supplementing the maternal cafeteria diet with omega-3 fatty acids ( omega3 ) on serum glucose , insulin , and leptin levels , as well as hypothalamic mRNA expression levels of pro-opiomelanocortin ( Pomc ) , neuropeptide-Y ( Npy ) , agouti-related protein ( Agrp ) , and brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( Bdnf ) genes in the offspring . METHODS : Pregnant C57BL/6J mice were divided into four groups ( n = 8 each ) : cafeteria diet , cafeteria diet plus omega3 supplementation ( 300 mg/kg/day ) , chow diet , and chow diet plus omega3 supplementation . Gestation and lactation were monitored , and blood and tissue samples were collected from 62 offspring . RESULTS : No significant differences were observed in maternal body weight at pregnancy onset . However , dietary intervention influenced weight gain and intake during gestation and lactation . The cafeteria diet group consumed more energy , fat , saturated fat , and less protein and fiber , with similar carbohydrate intake . This group showed higher serum glucose levels in offspring than the control group , while insulin and leptin levels remained unaffected . Supplementing the maternal cafeteria diet with omega3 had no beneficial effect on serum glucose , insulin , or leptin . Neither the cafeteria diet nor omega3 supplementation altered hypothalamic Pomc , Npy , Agrp , or Bdnf mRNA expression . DISCUSSION : These findings suggest that the maternal cafeteria diet may adversely affect some biochemical parameters in offspring without inducing short-term changes in nutrition-related gene expression . Omega3 supplementation conferred no apparent therapeutic benefit . Limitations include the absence of adiposity measurements and long-term follow-up , which may have influenced outcomes . Further research is needed to explore long-term metabolic consequences and underlying epigenetic mechanisms . FAU - Koc , Aslihan
Acral lentiginous melanoma ( ALM ) is a rare and insufficiently understood subtype of melanoma lacking in effective treatment options . Recent work has demonstrated that the response of ALM to immune checkpoint blockade is inferior to that of cutaneous melanoma ( CM ) . Here we performed bulk genomic and transcriptomic sequencing of tumor tissue from 28 ALM and 5692 CM cases . Similar to prior studies , ALM was associated with a significantly lower incidence of point mutations , including in the TERT promoter and BRAF , but increased numbers of gene amplifications , notably of CCND1 , HMGA2 , and MDM Reactome pathway analysis revealed enhancement of keratinization and PI3K/AKT signaling pathways . Overall immunogenicity was decreased in ALM , which possessed lower IFNgamma ( p < 001 ) and T-cell inflammatory ( p = 03 ) pathway scores than CM . Despite higher computationally inferred levels of myeloid dendritic cells ( p = 006 ) , neoantigen load independent of predicted HLA binding affinity was lower ( p < 01 ) in ALM versus CM . Assessment of classical and nonclassical HLA mRNA levels revealed upregulation of HLA-G , suggesting alternative ALM immune evasion pathways in the setting of lower PD-L1 expression ( p = 005 ) . Additional research is needed to better understand and therapeutically target signaling networks in the ALM tumor microenvironment .
Pathogens frequently produce proteins to evade or inhibit host immune responses . One such protein is lymphostatin from attaching and effacing Escherichia coli ( also known as lymphocyte inhibitory factor A ; LifA ) , which influences intestinal colonization and inhibits mitogen- and antigen-activated proliferation of T lymphocytes and pro-inflammatory cytokine synthesis . Here , we report the cloning , purification and characterization of a LifA homologue from Chlamydia pecorum . The predicted 382 KDa protein ( CPE2_0552 ) exhibited 36% identity and 55% similarity over 3171 amino acids to lymphostatin from enteropathogenic E . coli strain E2348/ CPE2_0552 shares glycosyltransferase and cysteine protease motifs required for lymphostatin activity , including similarity in the tertiary structure of these domains predicted by AlphaFold Purified CPE2_0552 did not share the L-shaped globular structure of lymphostatin when analyzed by transmission electron microscopy . CPE2_0552 inhibited concanavalin A-stimulated proliferation of bovine T cells in a concentration-dependent manner , with an inhibitory dose 50 ( ID ) of 812 pg/mL . This was 38-fold higher than the ID of E . coli E2348/69 lymphostatin tested in parallel on T cells from the same donors ( 21 pg/mL ) , but was similar to another LifA homologue from E . coli O157 : H7 ( ToxB ) . Moreover , CPE2_0552 inhibited the secretion of interferon gamma ( IFNgamma ) , a key cytokine that influences the outcome of Chlamydia infections . At the concentrations at which CPE2_0552 inhibited T lymphocyte proliferation and IFNgamma secretion , negligible cytotoxicity was observed after 72 h of stimulation . Our study indicates that E . coli lymphostatin belongs to a wider family of lymphocyte-inhibitory molecules that exist in distantly related bacterial pathogens . FAU - Blackburn , Elizabeth A
Targeted therapies have pervasively enhanced clinical protocols and significantly improved survival and quality of life of cancer patients . Mostly grounded on small molecules and antibodies targeting deregulated mechanisms in cancer cells , precision oncology approaches are limited to a few tumor types because of the paucity of clinically actionable targets . Here , we report a comparative analysis of the cation channel transient receptor potential melastatin 8 ( TRPM8 ; also known as transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily M member 8 ) in lung , breast , colorectal , and prostate cancers . Our findings reveal high levels of channel expression in cores of all four carcinomas , irrespective of reduced expression of its RNA . Importantly , cancer cell lines that represent the various tumor types consistently show that sub-lethal chemotherapy dosages combined with the TRPM8 agonist D-3263 have a synergistic lethal effect . In addition , administration of D-3263 increases the cytotoxicity of 5-FU/Oxaliplatin in patient-derived colorectal cancer organoids , depending on the levels of TRPM Overall , our study strengthens the candidacy of TRPM8 as a molecular target for precision oncology approaches and paves the way for the design of basket trials for its clinical testing in TRPM8-high tumors .
This report details a rare pediatric case of hyperammonemic encephalopathy caused by the oral iron chelating drug deferasirox ( DFR ) in a septic patient . It is our contention that this study lends support to the existing literature , as it describes the case of a 15-year-old female patient with a history of sickle-cell disease who presented with a fever and vomiting , rapid development of sleepiness , consciousness disturbances , medium mydriasis , neck stiffness , and trismus with seizure . Her Glasgow Coma Scale ( GCS ) score was Laboratory tests revealed an increase in creatinine , metabolic acidosis , hyperammonemia , high cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) glutamine levels , alterations in coagulation and in liver function , rising inflammatory markers , cerebral oedema on brain Computerized Tomography ( CT ) scan , 10 ; 6 copies/ml of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus ( MRSA ) in pulmonary swab film array , and elevated DFR blood level . The treatment plan involved the early cessation of DFR , the correction of acidosis , mechanical ventilation , mannitol and bioarginine , vasoactive drug , antibiotics , and supportive care with continuous veno-venous hemodiafiltration ( CVVHDF ) for hyperammonemia and therapeutic plasma exchange ( TPE ) for a high CSF glutamine level resulting from cytotoxic encephalopathy . The patient successfully overcame the multiorgan failure , with no permanent neurologic complications . It is our opinion that healthcare providers and family caregivers of patients with chronic disease may be particularly attuned to the emergence of any sign or symptom , and thus well positioned to take prompt action to avert life-threatening clinical deterioration due to rising DFR levels . It is recommended that critical care providers commence extracorporeal blood purification therapies ( EBPT ) at the earliest opportunity , taking care to adapt the technique to the specific needs of the patient and to avoid the potential for fatal neurological complications .
Freeze injury is typically quantified by measuring electrolyte leakage from plant tissues exposed to a freeze-thaw cycle , whereby higher leakage indicates greater injury . The severity of stress is also assessed by the ability ( or lack thereof ) of the injured tissue to recover , wherein reduced leakage during the post-thaw period relative to right after thaw indicates recoverable injury . In this study , spinach leaves were injured to various degrees by freezing them for different durations at a fixed sub-zero temperature . We explored the cellular nature of freeze-thaw injury by comparing the profiles of cellular metabolites that were leaked from reversibly and/or irreversibly injured leaves . A total of 47 metabolites were , thus , detected in the leachate , including 8 sugars , 20 amino acids , GABA , uracil , adenine , palmitic acid , ferulic , coumaric acid , and other organic/inorganic acids involved in primary and secondary metabolism ( e . g . , citric acid , phosphoric acid , coumaric acid , etc . ) . Combined multivariate metabolome analysis , including principal component analysis , hierarchical clustering , and partial least square discriminant analysis , together identified 14 key metabolites mainly responsible for distinguishing the reversible vs . irreversible injury . These metabolites are also indicators for various lesions , including structural/functional perturbations to cellular components ( cell wall , chloroplast , vacuole , plasma membrane , nucleic acids ) , disruption of metabolic homeostasis ( antioxidant system , cytoplasmic pH , Kreb ' s cycle ) , protein degradation , and hypoxia .
Grapholita molesta ( Busck ) ( Lepidoptera : Tortricidae ) is a worldwide Rosaceae fruit tree pest . Although the Bacillus thuringiensis ( Bt ) Cry1Ac proteins exhibit excellent insecticidal activity against G . molesta , there are no reported Bt receptors for G . molesta . In the preliminary screening , we identified aminopeptidase N3 ( GmolAPN3 ) as a potential receptor for Cry1Ac in G . molesta . Ligand blot and homologous competition experiments confirmed the simultaneous binding of interaction domains 2 ( GluZincin superfamily domain ) and 4 ( ERAP1-C domain ) of GmolAPN3 to activated Cry1Ac . In the cell toxicity bioassay , the overexpression of GmolAPN3 rendered Sf9 cells more susceptible to activated Cry1Ac . The results from dsRNA interference demonstrated that knockdown of GmolAPN3 conferred resistance in G . molesta larvae against Cry1Ac . Our findings provide pioneering evidence for the role of GmolAPN3 as the first identified Bt receptor mediating both binding and toxicity of Cry1Ac in G . molesta and also offer theoretical guidance for understanding the mode of action of Cry1Ac in G . molesta and its field applications . FAU - Liu , Shaokai
BACKGROUND : Ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1 ( S6K1 ) is frequently amplified and correlates with drug resistance and poor prognosis in patients with breast cancer . Although S6K1 functions primarily in the process of translation , the genome-wide translational profiles regulated by S6K1 remain unclear . This study sought to clarify the pivotal role of S6K1 in translational regulation and investigate its novel targets in breast cancer . METHODS : Ribosome profiling sequencing ( Ribo-seq ) was performed to explore genome-wide translational profiles regulated by S6K1 in breast cancer cells . Integrated multiomics analyses , including Ribo-seq , RNA sequencing , and mass spectrometry , were employed to identify a new target of S6K1 translational regulation , the autophagy-related gene clusterin ( CLU ) . Western blotting and immunofluorescence were utilized to confirm that S6K1 regulated CLU translation , thus influencing autophagy in breast cancer cells . Bafilomycin A1 ( a late-stage autophagy inhibitor ) was used to demonstrate that S6K1 regulated autophagosome formation in breast cancer cells through affecting the translation of CLU . RESULTS : S6K1 depletion resulted in the downregulation of global messenger RNA ( mRNA ) translation and affected translation in multiple pathways that play crucial roles in carcinogenesis , with autophagy-related pathways being the most prominently affected . The role of S6K1 in autophagy was further confirmed in breast cancer cells , and CLU was identified as a novel target regulated by S6K1 at the translational level . Additionally , the overexpression of S6K1 promoted the translation of CLU , thus facilitating the formation of autophagosomes . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrated that the overexpression of S6K1 promoted autophagy in breast cancer cells by facilitating the translation of the autophagy-related gene CLU .
Invariant natural killer T ( iNKT ) cells differentiate into at least three distinct subsets within the thymus , with each subset ' s frequency varying considerably among mouse strains ; however , the molecular mechanisms involved remain unclear . We herein report that iNKT cell lineage diversity results from the significant expansion of iNKT2 cells with limited T cell receptor ( TCR ) diversity in BALB/c mice and the selection of iNKT1 cells with significantly diverse TCRs in B6 mice . Furthermore , SLAMF6 expression on immature thymocytes significantly differs among mouse strains , with the low expression of SLAMF6 on BALB/c immature thymocytes resulting in high " basal TCR signaling " in preselected DP thymocytes , associated with iNKT cell expansion . Our data suggest that the expression level of SLAMF6 on immature thymocytes affects basal TCR signaling in preselected DP thymocytes , which may influence thymocyte development in a T-cell subset .
Anemia of chronic disease ( ACD ) is the most frequent clinical issue in patients with chronic disease , ACD is usually secondary to chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) , cancer , and chronic infection , which is associated with poor health outcomes , increased morbidity and mortality , and substantial economic costs . Current treatment options for ACD are very limited . The discovery of the hypoxia-inducible factor-prolyl hydroxylase ( HIF-PHD ) pathway made it possible to develop novel therapeutic agents ( such as hypoxia-inducible factor-prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor , HIF-PHI ) to treat ACD by stabilizing HIF and subsequently promoting endogenous erythropoietin ( EPO ) production and iron absorption and utilization . Thus , HIF-PHIs appear to open a new door for the treatment of ACD patients with a novel mechanism . Here , we comprehensively reviewed the latest advancements in the application of HIF-PHIs in ACD . Specifically , we highlighted the key features of HIF-PHIs on ACD , such as stimulation of endogenous EPO , handling iron metabolism , inflammation-independent , and prolonging lifespan of red blood cells . In conclusion , the success of HIF-PHIs in the treatment of ACD may expand the therapeutic opportunity for other types of anemia beyond renal anemia .
Abnormal aggregation of tau protein into beta-sheet amyloid fibrils is closely associated with Alzheimer ' s disease and other tauopathies . Interactions between tau and cell membranes can lead to accelerated fibrillization and membrane deformation , serving as a toxicity pathway for tau aggregation . The tau fibril-nucleating core motif PHF6 ( VQIVYK ) has been reported to play a key role in tau-membrane interactions . However , the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unexplored , and the effect of terminal capping on PHF6-membrane interactions has often been overlooked . Herein , we performed extensive all-atom molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the interactions between four PHF6 terminal acetylation-amidation variant fibrils and a mixed POPC/POPG membrane . Our simulations highlight the pivotal role of N-terminal capping in modulating the membrane binding of PHF6 fibrils ( bilayer beta-sheets ) , as well as the resulting fibril stabilization and membrane disruption . We find that regardless of their C-terminal amidation states , the N-terminally acetylated PHF6 ( Ac-PHF6 and Ac-PHF6-NH ) fibrils are prone to bind to the membrane surface through electrostatic attraction between cationic side chains of K311 and anionic POPG lipids . This membrane binding reduces the dynamics of PHF6 fibril compared to that in solution , thus facilitating inter- and intrasheet interactions , and in turn stabilizes the overall fibril structure . In contrast , the N-terminally nonacetylated PHF6 ( PHF6 and PHF6-NH ) fibrils tend to insert into membranes via their cationic N-termini . This membrane insertion favors PHF6 intrasheet interactions but disfavors intersheet interactions due to the interference of lipid molecules during the insertion process and causes more severe membrane disruption than N-terminally acetylated PHF6 fibrils . Additionally , MD simulations on N-terminally nonacetylated PHF6 protofibrils ( single-layer parallel beta-sheets ) show that membrane binding stabilizes the protofibrils , which are unstable in aqueous solution . These findings provide comprehensive atomistic insights into the role of terminal capping in membrane-associated tau peptide fibrillization and cytotoxicity . FAU - Pan , Tong
Light scattering is a powerful tool that has been widely applied in various scenarios , such as nanoparticle analysis , single-cell measurement , and blood flow monitoring . However , noise is always a concerning and challenging issue in light scattering imaging ( LSI ) due to the complexity of noise sources . In this work , a deep learning-based adaptive denoising framework has been established to explore the temporal information on LSI videos , aiming to provide an unsupervised and self-learning denoising strategy for various application scenarios of LSI . This novel framework consists of three stages : noise distribution maps for describing the characteristics of LSI noise , video denoising based on the unsupervised learning of the FastDVDNet network , and denoising effect discrimination to screen the best denoised result for further processing . The denoising performance is validated by two common LSI applications : nanoparticle analysis and label-free identification of single cells . The result shows that our method compares favorably to existing methods in suppressing the background noise and enhancing the signal-to-noise ratio ( SNR ) and contrast-to-noise ratio ( CNR ) of LSI . Consequently , the successful analysis of both particle size distribution and cell classification can be notably improved . The proposed unsupervised adaptive denoising method is expected to offer a powerful tool toward a fully automated denoising and improved accuracy in extensive applications of LSI . FAU - Lin , Meiai
OBJECTIVE : Breast cancer ( BC ) has a poor prognosis due to metastasis and recurrence . LINC01158 is aberrantly expressed in breast cancer . Therefore , we investigated the regulatory mechanism and prognostic value of LINC01158 in BC . METHODS : 121 patients with BC were enrolled . LINC01158 and miR-711 levels were analyzed by RT-qPCR . Independent predictors of poor BC prognosis were analyzed by multifactorial Cox regression . Kaplan-Meier curves were used to analyze the 5-year survival rate of BC patients . DLR assay verified the relationship between LINC01158 and miR-711 target binding . CCK-8 was used to detect the proliferative capacity of cells . Transwell was used to analyze cell migration and invasion ability . RESULTS : In BC tissues and cell lines , LINC01158 expression was reduced and miR-711 levels were elevated . Low expression of LINC01158 resulted in a shortened overall survival of BC patients . LINC01158 binds to the miR-711 target and negatively correlates with the level of miR- Overexpression of LINC01158 decreased miR-711 levels and reduced BC cell proliferation , migration and invasion . In addition , Cox regression results showed that LINC01158 was an independent prognostic factor for BC . CONCLUSION : LINC01158 may be a prognostic marker for BC . Increasing the expression level of LINC01158 could reduce the expression of miR-711 , which could inhibit cell proliferation , migration and invasive behaviors , and has the potential to delay the progression of BC .
This review article examines how stem cell therapies can cure various diseases and injuries while also discussing the difficulties and moral conundrums that come with their application . The article focuses on the revolutionary developments in stem cell research , especially the introduction of gene editing tools like CRISPR-Cas9 , which can potentially improve the safety and effectiveness of stem cell-based treatments . To guarantee the responsible use of stem cells in clinical applications , it is also argued that standardizing clinical procedures and fortifying ethical and regulatory frameworks are essential first steps . The assessment also highlights the substantial obstacles that still need to be addressed , such as the moral dilemmas raised by the use of embryonic stem cells , the dangers of unlicensed stem cell clinics , and the difficulties in obtaining and paying for care for patients . The study emphasizes how critical it is to address these problems to stop exploitation , guarantee patient safety , and increase the accessibility of stem cell therapy . The review also addresses the significance of thorough clinical trials , public education , and policy development to guarantee that stem cell research may fulfill its full potential . The review concludes by describing stem cell research as a promising but complicated topic that necessitates a thorough evaluation of both the hazards and the benefits . To overcome the ethical , legal , and accessibility obstacles and eventually guarantee that stem cell treatments may be safely and fairly included in conventional healthcare , it urges cooperation between the scientific community , legislators , and the general public .
BACKGROUND : The mechanism by which circRERE ( hsa_circ_0006837 ) modulates the malignant progression of gastric cancer was investigated to identify a novel biomarker and therapeutic target for this disease . METHODS : Hsa_circ_0006837 expression in GC tissues and cells was detected by RT-qPCR . Several data analysis methods were used to evaluate the significance of dysregulated hsa_circ_0006837 in GC . The patients were followed up for five years , and survival analysis was conducted using Kaplan-Meier curves . Cox regression was subsequently performed to analyze the risk factors for prognosis . The malignant behaviors of the cells were detected by the CCK-8 and Transwell assays . The relationship between hsa_circ_0006837 and miR-424-5p was assessed by conducting Spearman correlation analysis and verified by dual-luciferase reporter assay . RESULTS : Hsa_circ_0006837 expression decreased in patients with GC , indicating a poorer patient prognosis . In GC cells , hsa_circ_0006837 overexpression suppressed malignant behaviors . Mechanistically , miR-424-5p was identified as a target of hsa_circ_ The overexpression of miR-424-5p partially counteracted the suppressive effects of upregulated hsa_circ_0006837 on the malignant behaviors of GC cells . FBXO21 was identified as a downstream gene of the hsa_circ_0006837/miR-424-5p axis . CONCLUSIONS : To summarize , hsa_circ_0006837 is a biomarker for the prognosis of GC . Mechanistically , hsa_circ_0006837 overexpression can modulate the malignant behaviors of GC cells through miR-424-5p .
BACKGROUND : Methylation of RNA is involved in many pathophysiological processes . The roles of N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) and N7-methylguanosine ( m7G ) in heart failure ( HF ) have been established . However , the impact of 5-methylcytosine ( m5C ) on HF and its relationship with the immune microenvironment ( IME ) remains elusive . METHODS : GSE141910 ( 200 HF , 166 NFDs ) was used as training cohort . Focusing on 9 identified m5C differently expressed genes ( DEGs ) , random forests ( RF ) , LASSO logistic regression , and SVM-RFE were employed to identify hub genes . ROC curves were plotted to confirm the predictive value in diagnostic model . ScRNA-seq revealed cell-type-specific m5C regulator expression patterns and HF IME . Hub genes were validated using HF rat models after myocardial infarction ( MI ) through quantitative reverse-transcription PCR ( qRT-PCR ) and western blot ( WB ) . Consensus clustering algorithms identified two m5C-related HF subtypes . Single-sample gene-set enrichment analysis ( ssGSEA ) and CIBERSORT deconvolution algorithm analyzed the IME in HF . Finally , we employed WGCNA and PPI network to find m5C associated key genes and their clinical significance in HF subgroups . RESULTS : In HF samples , four m5C regulators ( NSUN6 , DNMT3A , DNMT3B and ALYREF ) were greatly upregulated , while five ( NOP2 , NSUN3 , NSUN7 , DNMT1 and TRDMT1 ) were downregulated compared to NFDs in the training set . ALYREF positively correlated with activated NK cells and monocytes , whereas TRDMT1 and NSUN3 showed inverse correlations with these cells . Four hub genes were identified by machine-learning algorithms and all verified by validation model . Single-cell RNA-seq dataset GSE183852 examined the levels of 13 m5C regulators across 11 different cell types in HF . In vivo experiments including qRT-PCR and WB finally identified NSUN6 as the most remarkable regulator . The diagnostic model demonstrated excellent performance in distinguishing between HF and NFDs ( AUC 869 , 95%CI 832-906 ) . The two m5C subtypes exhibited distinct modification patterns , immune cell infiltration , immune checkpoints , and HLA gene expression . Additionally , 138 differentially expressed genes were uncovered based on m5C subtypes , and GSEA revealed associations with key pathophysiological mechanisms of HF . By using WGCNA and PPI network , three m5C associated key genes ( RPS21 , RPL36 and RPS19 ) were identified significantly influencing cardiac function in clinical practice . CONCLUSION : HF diagnostic model is developed based on 4 robust m5C RNA modification biomarkers ( DNMT3B , NOP2 , NSUN6 and DNMT1 ) . Two distinct m5C RNA modification patterns in HF are identified , illustrating different IME characteristics . Our findings underline the significance of m5C regulators in HF , offering new perspectives on HF mechanisms and potential diagnostic and therapeutic strategies .
BACKGROUND : Mammography screening has improved early breast cancer detection , leading to reduced mortality and lower rates of advanced breast cancer . However , mammography has a high false positive rate that results in over a million invasive breast biopsies of benign lesions in the US each year . Therefore , there is a need for noninvasive , blood-based diagnostics that can accurately assess risk of malignancy for women with indeterminate lesions identified by mammography , such as BI-RADS category 4 breast lesions . The aim of this study is to identify biomarkers from multiplexed extracellular vesicle liquid biopsy that can accurately classify mammographically detected BI-RADS 4 lesions . METHODS : We analyzed plasma from 113 prospectively enrolled subjects with BI-RADS 4 breast lesions , including 86 women with benign lesions and 27 women with malignant lesions ( including 12 with stage I invasive carcinoma and 14 with ductal carcinoma in situ ) . None of the invasive carcinomas were metastatic . From each plasma sample , we used track etched magnetic nanopore technology to separately isolate HER2 and CD24 expressing extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) and measured their miRNA cargo using next-generation sequencing . We evaluated the performance of EV-miRNA biomarkers for classifying malignancy and applied LASSO classification to identify a panel of four complementary EV miRNA biomarkers that we validated by qPCR . RESULTS : We identified 19 differentially enriched miRNA from HER2+ EVs and 11 differentially enriched miRNA from CD24+ EVs of women with malignant lesions compared to benign lesions . We observed individual miRNA with an AUC of up to 87 for miR-340-5p from HER2+ EVs and 75 for miR-223-3p from CD24+ EVs . LASSO classification selected a panel of four complementary EV miRNA for classifying breast cancer : miR-340-5p ( HER2+ EVs ) , miR-598-3p ( CD24+ ) , miR-15b-5p ( HER2+ ) , and miR-126-3p ( CD24+ ) . CONCLUSIONS : HER2+ and CD24+ EV subpopulations contain complementary biomarkers suitable for validation in larger studies that can accurately detect early-stage breast cancer among women with BI-RADS category 4 breast lesions .
BACKGROUND : Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) is a significant global health challenge , with 2% of cases fuelled by RET rearrangements . RET inhibitors ( RETi ) have revolutionized treatment for these patients , but resistance remains an important clinical challenge limiting therapy effectiveness . This study investigated the mechanisms underlying resistance to RETi . METHODS : NSCLC cells were exposed to increasing doses of RETi ( pralsetinib/BLU-667 and selpercatinib/LOXO-292 ) to generate resistant cells . RNA-Sequencing analysis identified differentially expressed genes in resistant versus sensitive cells , followed by in vitro and in vivo functional assays to explore novel therapeutic strategies . Additionally , tumor biopsies from RET-rearranged NSCLC patients who exhibited cancer progression on RET inhibitor therapy were analyzed . RESULTS : RNA-sequencing analysis revealed the upregulation of the EGFR signaling pathway and hyperactivation of AP1 complex members in resistant cells compared to sensitive cells . Silencing of EGFR and AP1 complex members significantly reversed drug resistance , whereas EGFR overexpression reduced the sensitivity of parental Lc2/AD cells to RET inhibitors . Furthermore , the combination of RET and EGFR inhibitors showed synergistic antitumor activity in vitro and hindered tumor growth in mouse models with resistant cell xenografts . Notably , we observed a significant increase in EGFR expression in tumor biopsies from NSCLC patients treated with RET inhibitors who experienced disease progression , further validating the clinical relevance of our findings . CONCLUSIONS : This study elucidates EGFR ' s role in mediating resistance to RET inhibitors in NSCLC patients . These findings offer insights into therapeutic adaptation and explore personalized combinations of RET and EGFR inhibitors for improved clinical outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Interactions between the nasal epithelium , commensal nasal microbiota , and respiratory pathogens play a key role in respiratory infections . Currently , there is a lack of experimental models to study such interactions under defined in vitro conditions . Here , we developed a porcine nasal organoid ( PNO ) system from nasal tissue of pigs as well as from cytological brushes . RESULTS : PNOs exhibited similar structure and cell types to the nasal mucosa , as evaluated by immunostaining . PNOs were inoculated with porcine commensal strains of Moraxella pluranimalium , Rothia nasimurium , and the pathobiont Glaesserella parasuis for examining host-commensal-pathogen interactions . All strains adhered to the PNOs , although at different levels . M . pluranimalium and G . parasuis strains stimulated the production of proinflammatory cytokines , whereas R . nasimurium induced the production of IFNgamma and diminished the proinflammatory effect of the other strains . CONCLUSIONS : Overall , PNOs mimic the in vivo nasal mucosa and can be useful to perform host-microbe interaction studies . Video Abstract .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancer neoadjuvant therapy may negatively impact the immune system . As a secondary outcome of the docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) for women with breast cancer in the neoadjuvant setting ( DHA-WIN trial ) , we sought to assess the effects of an intervention with DHA on parameters of immune function of women undergoing neoadjuvant therapy . METHODS : Women with early-stage breast cancer in the neoadjuvant setting were recruited for the DHA-WIN trial and randomly assigned to receive either 4 g/day of DHA or a placebo for 18 weeks in conjunction with their neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer . Venous blood was collected to isolate peripheral blood mononuclear cells . Immune parameters were assessed by measuring white blood cell concentration , flow cytometry , and cytokines concentration after mitogen-stimulated immune response . RESULTS : In the placebo group the proportion of T cells ( CD3 + ) , and functionally active monocytes ( CD14 + HLA-DR + ) was reduced at the last cycle of chemotherapy ( 15 weeks ) but remained constant in the DHA group ( P interaction < 05 ) . The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) was maintained in the DHA group but increased in the placebo at the end of chemotherapy ( P-interaction = 02 ) . An increase in this ratio was associated with lower chance of achieving pathological complete response ( OR = 32 , 95% CI [14 , 16] , P = 01 ) . After 15 weeks of therapy , the DHA-supplemented group had higher concentrations of stimulated cytokines IL-4 , IL-10 , and the T helper type 1 cytokine IFN-gamma after phytohemagglutinin ( PHA ) challenge , and higher concentrations of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma cytokines after lipopolysaccharide exposure ( P < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Supplementing DHA during breast cancer neoadjuvant chemotherapy improved systemic immune function by attenuating changes in blood cell concentrations , preventing depletion of immune cells , and enhancing ex vivo cytokine secretion after stimulation .
BACKGROUND : Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) results in chronic motor deficits and intractable neuropathic pain , driven by neuroinflammation and impaired tissue repair . Current therapies inadequately address these multifaceted challenges . This study investigated the therapeutic effects of human adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( hADSCs ) transplantation combined with green light ( GL ) therapy to modulate inflammation , enhance autophagy , and facilitate functional restoration post-SCI . METHODS : In a murine SCI model , hADSCs ( 1 x 10 cells ) were intraspinally delivered with concurrent GL irradiation ( 100 lux , 8 h/d ) . Behavioral assessments included footprint analysis , von Frey test , and thermal hyperalgesia testing . Histological analyses included Luxol Fast Blue ( LFB ) , Nissl , Masson , and hematoxylin and eosin ( HE ) staining for myelin integrity , neuronal survival and glial scar area . Immunofluorescence , ELISA and qPCR were used to assess inflammation , and autophagy-related proteins were analyzed using immunofluorescence and western blotting . The role of microglial autophagy was investigated by inhibiting autophagy using 3-methyladenine ( 3MA ) . RESULTS : The combined treatment group ( hADSCs + GL ) showed significant motor function recovery , pain relief , and histological improvement , outperforming either treatment alone . Histological analyses revealed enhanced myelin preservation , reduced glial scar formation , and increased neuronal survival . Quantitative analysis revealed that TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , and CD68 expression in the combined treatment group were markedly lower than those in single-treatment cohorts ( P < 05 ) . Furthermore , the combined treatment promoted microglia autophagy , evidenced by increased Beclin1 and LC3B expression and decreased P62 in microglia . Inhibition of autophagy with 3MA reversed the anti-inflammatory benefits of the combined therapy , exacerbating the inflammatory response . CONCLUSIONS : The combined treatment of hADSCs transplantation and GL therapy significantly improves functional recovery and reduces inflammation following SCI . The therapeutic effects are mediated in part by the modulation of microglial autophagy .
BACKGROUND : Despite various treatment strategies , the incidence and mortality of pancreatic cancer ( PC ) are among the highest for malignant tumors . Furthermore , there is a lack of effective molecular typing and targeted therapy to treat PC subtypes . METHODS : Multiplex immunofluorescence experiments were performed to explore the roles of FAM111B , FANCD2 , KRAS and TP53 in human PC tissues . Kaplan-Meier survival curves were generated and a nomogram was prepared for prognostic prediction . Protein correlations were analyzed using human PC tissues and TCGA and GEO data . Pathways analysis , immunoanalysis , and drug susceptibility analysis were performed based on information in the TCGA database . RESULTS : Our results indicate that expression of FAM111B and FANCD2 is correlated in human PC tissues and comprises a dual expression signature with predictive value for the prognosis of PC . Using information in public databases , we confirmed the oncogenic relevance of FAM111B and FANCD2 in PC and identified a positive correlation between FAM111B , FANCD2 , TP53 and KRAS . FAM111B and FANCD2 jointly regulate ferroptosis , mitotic nuclear division , and nuclear division pathways . Both proteins were demonstrated to be positively correlated with markers of CD4 + Th2 cells and PD-L1 in the tumor microenvironment . Furthermore , drug sensitivity analysis suggested that patients with high FAM111B or FANCD2 expression were highly sensitive to chemotherapeutic and targeted drugs , indicating that these proteins may serve as predictors of treatment efficacy . CONCLUSION : Elevated dual expression of FAM111B and FANCD2 is indicative of poor prognosis , alters the immune microenvironment , and exhibits sensitivity to certain therapeutic agents . Consequently , the high FAM111B/FANCD2 expression subtype may represent a novel and distinct phenotype of PC .
Despite the undeniable role of chemotherapeutics in cancer treatment , their administration may be associated with various side effects . Cardiac injury is among the most crucial side effects related to the induction of chemotherapeutic agents . Since the heart is a vital organ , cardiotoxicity often prevents clinicians from continuing chemotherapy . Hesperidin and hesperetin , flavonoids derived from citrus fruits , possess several pharmaceutical properties . This study firstly explores the cardioprotective effects of hesperidin and hesperetin against chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity mechanisms , emphasizing their potential as adjunctive therapies . Key literature gaps are identified , and further mechanistic studies will be proposed . The findings underscore the translational potential of these flavonoids , advocating for rigorous preclinical optimization and clinical trials to validate their efficacy and safety . This review lays a foundation for integrating natural compounds into cardioprotective strategies in oncology . A systematic search was conducted in databases ( PubMed , Scopus , ISI ) until May 2025 , according to PRISMA principles . The search terms were chosen according to our research objective and queried in the title and abstract . Following the screening of 82 papers , twelve articles were selected based on our inclusion and exclusion criteria . Based on the evaluated results , chemotherapy adversely affects cardiac tissue , leading to elevated risks of morbidity and mortality . Co-administration of hesperidin and hesperetin with chemotherapy prevents heart injury and preserves cardiac function , maintaining it almost like a normal heart . The protective role of hesperidin and hesperetin is based on their ability to fight free radicals , reduce inflammation , and stop cell death . Nonclinical investigations indicate that hesperidin and hesperetin ameliorate chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity . Nonetheless , they may influence the efficacy of anticancer medications , which primarily function by elevating oxidants , inflammation , and apoptosis . This indicates that meticulously designed trials are necessary to evaluate the efficacy and safety of this combination along with the synergistic potential of them in preventing chemotherapy-induced cardiotoxicity while maintaining anticancer effectiveness .
BACKGROUND : Lemur Tail Kinase 3 ( LMTK3 ) promotes cell proliferation , invasiveness and therapy resistance , and its expression correlates with poor survival in several different malignancies , including breast cancer . Crosstalk through extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) is an increasingly appreciated mechanism of cell communication within the tumour immune microenvironment , which contributes to different aspects of cancer progression and plays a pivotal role in shaping tumour fate . METHODS : Nanoparticle tracking analysis and transmission electron microscopy were used to study the effects of LMTK3 on EV size , while single particle interferometry allowed us to examine LMTK3-dependent effects on the subpopulation distribution of EVs . Quantitative mass spectrometry was used to profile LMTK3-dependent proteomics changes in breast cancer-derived EVs . Bioinformatics analysis of clinical data along with in vitro and cell-based assays were implemented to explore the effects of LMTK3-dependent EV protein cargo on the tumour immune microenvironment . To elucidate the mechanism through which LMTK3 impacts endosomal trafficking and regulates EV biogenesis , we used a variety of approaches , including in vitro kinase assays , confocal and electron microscopy , as well as in vivo subcutaneous and orthotopic breast cancer mouse models . RESULTS : Here , we report that LMTK3 increases the average size of EVs , modulates immunoregulatory EV proteomic cargo and alters the subpopulation distribution of EVs released by breast cancer cells . Mechanistically , we provide evidence that LMTK3 phosphorylates Rab7 , a key regulator of multivesicular body ( MVB ) trafficking , thereby reducing the fusion of MVBs with lysosomes and subsequent degradation of intralumenal vesicles , resulting in altered EV release . Moreover , LMTK3 causes increased packaging of phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 ( PSAT1 ) in EVs , leading to a paracrine upregulation of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase ( PHGDH ) in monocytes when these EVs are taken up . PSAT1 and PHGDH play key roles in the serine biosynthesis pathway , which is closely linked to cancer progression and regulation of monocyte behaviour . LMTK3 EV-induced elevated PHGDH expression in monocytes reduces their infiltration into breast cancer 3D spheroids and in vivo breast cancer mouse models . Furthermore , these infiltrating monocytes preferentially differentiate into pro-tumourigenic M2-like macrophages . Additional breast cancer mouse studies highlight the contribution of LMTK3-dependent EVs in the observed immunosuppressive macrophage phenotype . Finally , in vitro experiments show that pharmacological inhibition of LMTK3 reverses the pro-tumourigenic and immunomodulatory effects mediated by EVs derived from LMTK3 overexpressing cells . CONCLUSION : Overall , this study advances our knowledge on the mechanisms of EV biogenesis and highlights a novel oncogenic role of LMTK3 in the breast TME , further supporting it as a target for cancer therapy .
Rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) is characterized by elevated levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and a persistent inflammatory microenvironment dominated by M1 macrophages , both of which contribute to disease progression . To address these pathological features , we developed a core-shell nanoplatform consisting of silver-modified ceria nanoparticles loaded with celastrol ( Ag-CeNP@Cel ) . This nanoplatform significantly enhances the water solubility of celastrol and reduces its hepato-renal toxicity by enabling passive accumulation in inflamed joints . The silver-modified ceria nanoparticles synergistically combine with celastrol to scavenge excess ROS and reprogram M1 macrophages into M2 macrophages , thereby mitigating inflammatory responses and improving the rheumatoid arthritis microenvironment ( RAM ) . Ag-CeNP@Cel exhibited robust therapeutic efficacy and safety in preclinical models , presenting an innovative approach to RA treatment by integrating ROS elimination with macrophage modulation to ameliorate inflammatory microenvironment . This study underscores the potential of Ag-CeNP@Cel as a promising therapeutic strategy for RA management .
Obesity poses serious health risks and is trending younger , developing effective strategies to prevent obesity is crucial . Calcium intake is a potential strategy to reduce weight/fat , as it generally enhances the body ' s energy metabolism . However , calcium ' s effects on appetite and its specific mechanisms remain unclear . To investigate these questions , we administered calcium orally to fasted mice and found that calcium inhibited food intake during the first 3 h . Long-term calcium supplementation in water decreased HFD intake , weight gain , and fat deposition while increasing energy metabolism in young mice . Mechanistically , calcium activated the vagal afferent nerves and inhibited ARC ( AgRP ) neurons-key appetite regulation neuron . What ' s more , these effects are blunted by chemogenetic inhibition of gastrointestinal intestinal vagal afferent nerves or activation of ARC ( AgRP ) neuronal activity . Overall , we showed that ingested calcium activates vagal afferent nerves , inhibiting the activity of ARC ( AgRP ) neurons , thereby reducing food intake . This study supports calcium ' s role in obesity dietary therapy .
BACKGROUND : SMARCA4 and SMARCA2 , mutually exclusive catalytic ATPase subunits of human mammalian Switch/Sucrose-Nonfermentable chromatin remodeling enzymes , function as tumor suppressor genes . SMARCA4-deficient adenocarcinoma ( SMARCA4-dADC ) is a relatively rare subtype of TTF1/P40-negative non-small cell lung cancer . The concurrent presentation of SMARCA4-dADC and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma with SMARCA2 ( also known as BRM ) loss in separate lobes of the same patient is even less common . This report describes such a case involving the simultaneous occurrence of these two tumor types in distinct locations within the lungs . CASE PRESENTATION : A 68-year-old male presented with a three-week history of vague pain in the right side of the chest , with no obvious trigger . Imaging revealed solid masses in the upper and lower lobes of the right lung with bilateral enlarged cervical lymph nodes . So , both of these masses underwent wedge resection . Histopathological examination confirmed that the lower lobe tumor was SMARCA4-dADC , while the upper lobe tumor was diagnosed as poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma . Although histologically similar , both exhibiting predominantly solid sheets and complex glandular structures , the two tumors displayed distinct immunohistochemical and molecular profiles . The lower lobe mass showed complete loss of BRG1 protein expression and partial loss of BRM . Immunohistochemical analysis revealed negative expression of TTF1 , Napsin A , SALL4 , CD34 , and SOX2 , and positive expression of CK7 , pan-Cytokeratin ( CK-pan ) , and HepPar- Molecular analysis identified mutations in SMARCA4 , KRAS , and STK Conversely , the upper lobe mass retained BRG1 expression but showed complete loss of BRM protein expression , and negative expression of SALL4 , CD34 , and HepPar-1 , positive expression of CK7 , CK-pan , TTF1 , Napsin A , and SOX A KRAS mutation was also detected in this tumor . CONCLUSION : The simultaneous occurrence of SMARCA4-dADC and conventional adenocarcinoma in different locations within the same patient is exceedingly rare . However , the distinct immunophenotypic and molecular characteristics of SMARCA4-dADC differentiate it as a unique entity from conventional adenocarcinoma . We recommend including SMARCA4 in the marker panel used to evaluate TTF1-negative adenocarcinomas of potential or uncertain pulmonary origin . This report underscores the diagnostic challenge of concurrent SMARCA4-dADC and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma , proposing a standardized immunohistochemical workflow to guide therapeutic decisions .
BACKGROUND : Synaptic dysfunction is a relevant feature of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) and Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) and can be quantified through the measurement of cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) synaptic markers , such as the presynaptic proteins synaptosomal-associated protein 25 kDa ( SNAP25 ) and vesicle-associated membrane protein 2 ( VAMP2 ) . Plasma-based assays for synaptic markers are also emerging . In neurodegenerative diseases , synaptic dysfunction can be directly driven by proteinopathies such as amyloidosis ( A ) , tauopathy ( T ) , and alpha-synucleinopathy ( S ) , which in turn can be detected via CSF biomarkers . This observational study aimed to : ( i ) evaluate the concordance of SNAP25 and VAMP2 in CSF and plasma ; ( ii ) compare SNAP25 and VAMP2 concentrations in CSF and plasma across AD , PD , and control groups ; ( iii ) examine the impact on synaptic markers concentration of CSF alpha-synuclein seed amplification assay ( alphaS-SAA ) positivity ( S+ ) in AD , and ( iv ) of CSF amyloid/tau ( A+/T+ ) positivity in PD . METHODS : We included 80 AD patients ( preclinical , mild cognitive impairment [MCI] , and dementia stages ) , 47 PD patients , and 41 controls with other neurological diseases ( OND ) and known CSF A/T/S profiles . All AD and 5/47 PD patients were CSF A+/T+ , while 26/80 AD and all PD patients were CSF S+ . All OND had a non-A+/T + and a S - profile . SNAP25 and VAMP2 concentrations in CSF and plasma were measured using Simoa-based immunoassays . RESULTS : CSF and plasma SNAP25 were positively correlated , but no correlation was observed for VAMP2 in these matrices . CSF and plasma SNAP25 and CSF VAMP2 were higher in AD compared to PD and OND . Synaptic markers were elevated in preclinical AD and remained stable across MCI-AD and AD dementia stages . AD patients with CSF alphaS-SAA positivity showed no significant difference in synaptic markers compared to those without CSF alphaS-SAA positivity , independent of clinical stage . In PD , A+/T + patients had higher CSF and plasma SNAP25 ( 3 +/- 6 ; 9 +/- 5 pg/mL ) compared to non-A+/T + PD ( 4 +/- 2 ; 3 +/- 3 pg/mL ) ( p < 001 and p < 01 , respectively ) . CONCLUSIONS : SNAP25 reliably serves as a marker of synaptic injury when measured in both CSF and plasma , whereas VAMP2 demonstrates reliability exclusively in CSF . Both markers are primarily influenced by AD pathology and remain unaffected by alpha-synucleinopathy , suggesting their potential in detecting AD-related synaptic dysfunction .
BACKGROUND : Organoids have emerged as powerful tools in reproductive medicine and bioengineering , offering three-dimensional ( 3D ) models that closely mimic native tissues . However , the development of protocols for generating healthy epithelial ovarian organoids ( OvaOs ) remains significantly underexplored , as most studies focus on ovarian cancer models . This work presents an effective protocol for generating healthy bovine OvaOs as a physiological and translational model for ovarian research , mimicking the anatomical and functional similarities between bovine and human ovarian surface epithelium ( OSE ) . RESULTS : Healthy bovine OvaOs were successfully derived using a mechanical-enzymatic method with a predominant mechanical approach , which proved superior to exclusively enzymatic techniques that failed to yield an adequate number of OSE cells . The biological potential of the resulting OvaOs to establish long-term organoid lines was demonstrated by their exponential growth over a 21-day culture period , extensive passaging capacity , and high viability after freeze-thaw cycles . Histological analyses confirmed that healthy bovine OvaOs recapitulated OSE tissue characteristics , including the expression of Cytokeratin 18 , Vimentin , and CD44 , while the absence of Paired box gene-8 ( PAX8 ) expression excluded contamination by fimbrial cells . CONCLUSIONS : This study describes an effective mechanical protocol for deriving healthy OvaOs from bovine ovaries . These 3D models faithfully replicate the biological features of bovine OSE , with sustained viability across long-term cultures , passaging , and freeze-thaw cycles . These findings underscore their potential as translational models for advancing ovarian physiology research and adapting protocols to human ovarian tissue .
BACKGROUND : New drugs to treat Alzheimer s disease ( AD ) are urgently needed . Human triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 ( hTREM2 ) is a validated drug target which is genetically associated with AD . Existing anti-hTREM2 antibodies were raised in animal immune systems , and subsequently humanized , which may incur immunological complications upon repeated preventive or therapeutic applications in vivo in AD patients . In addition , anti-hTREM2 antibodies should be optimized for both , efficacy and safety . METHODS : A novel fully human monoclonal brain-targeting anti-hTREM2 antibody M07-TFN was created . Binding affinities , cell viabilities , and agonist potencies were investigated on rhTREM2 and in human microglia . Transcytosis assays modeled blood-brain barrier translocation ( BBB ) . Behavior tests were carried out in 5 x familiar AD ( 5xFAD ) mice of both genders , to test for brain function and cognition as well as hippocampus-dependent spatial memory using the Barnes maze . In addition , amyloid plaque formation was determined on brain sections at the end of the study . RESULTS : M07-TFN showed higher binding affinities and stronger activation of hTREM2 signaling than all previously described anti-hTREM2 antibodies . p-Syk activation was increased 30-fold in hTREM2-overexpressing HEK293 cells and fourfold in human microglia cells compared to baseline . Human microglia viability significantly improved after stress testing . M07-TFN showed strong BBB translocation in a human BBB model , and exerted cross-reactivity to the mouse TREM2 stalk region , which allowed us to investigate M07-TFN directly in an AD mouse model . In 5xFAD mice , M07-TFN resulted in improved novel object location and better spatial orientation and memory , and significantly reduced plaque load . Additional safety investigations in mice showed no negative effects on blood cells or major organs . CONCLUSION : Compared to existing humanized anti-hTREM2 antibodies that have been investigated in clinical trials , M07-TFN showed best-in-class affinities and agonist potencies . Being a fully human anti-hTREM2 antibody , M07-TFN holds the promise of reduced immunogenicity for use in human patients .
BACKGROUND : Allergic asthma features Th2-mediated airway inflammation , with dendritic cells ( DCs ) playing a crucial role . Acupuncture shows promise in modulating immune responses , yet its mechanisms in allergic asthma are not well understood . This study explores how acupuncture alleviates Th2 airway inflammation by modulating lung CD11b ( + ) DCs . METHODS : Female BALB/c mice were assigned to control and asthma model groups , with subsets receiving acupuncture at Dazhui ( GV14 ) , Fengmen ( BL12 ) , and Feishu ( BL13 ) . We evaluated airway hyperresponsiveness ( AHR ) , immune cell infiltration , histological changes , Th2 cytokine production , and serum IgE levels . The effects of acupuncture serum on T cell activation and bone marrow-derived dendritic cells ( BMDCs ) were assessed . The role of CD11b ( + ) DCs was analyzed using flow cytometry , cytokine assays , and adoptive transfer experiments . Epithelial-derived alarmins and type 2 innate lymphoid cells ( ILC2s ) were also examined . RESULTS : Acupuncture significantly reduced AHR , immune cell infiltration , goblet cell hyperplasia , and serum IgE levels in HDM-induced allergic asthma . It also suppressed Th2 cytokine production and differentiation . While acupuncture serum did not directly affect T cell activation , it modulated BMDC activity . Adoptive transfer of acupuncture-treated lung DCs into asthmatic mice reduced Th2 cell recruitment and ameliorated airway inflammation . Acupuncture reduced the population of lung CD11b ( + ) DCs and downregulated the expression of activation markers such as CD86 and OX40L , along with Th2-promoting chemokines CCL17 and CCL Furthermore , it influenced CD11b ( + ) DC migration by modulating CCR7 , CCL2 , and CCL8 expression . Acupuncture suppressed epithelial-derived alarmins IL-25 , IL-33 , and TSLP , attenuating ILC2 accumulation and activation , which indirectly affected CD11b ( + ) DCs and Th2 responses . CONCLUSIONS : Acupuncture alleviates Th2 airway inflammation in allergic asthma by modulating lung CD11b ( + ) DC activities . These findings provide new insights into acupuncture-based therapeutic strategies for asthma .
BACKGROUND : Crush syndrome is a severe condition caused by the systemic effects of rhabdomyolysis due to prolonged muscle compression . Common in disasters like earthquakes , it poses life-threatening risks , including acute renal failure , hyperkalemia , and metabolic acidosis . Although surgical interventions such as fasciotomy and amputation are critical in its management , the optimal timing and criteria remain unclear . This study investigates the impact of surgical intervention timing on crush syndrome outcomes , providing guidance through the first experimental rat model evaluating fasciotomy and amputation post-injury . METHODS : Forty-eight Wistar albino rats were divided into six groups . Rhabdomyolysis was induced experimentally , followed by amputation or fasciotomy at 0 , 12 , or 24 h . The control group underwent rhabdomyolysis induction without surgery . Weekly urine samples were collected during the study , and blood , muscle , and kidney tissues were examined biochemically and histopathologically at the experiment ' s end . Data analysis focused on the systemic and tissue-specific effects of intervention timing . RESULTS : Early intervention groups ( 0 h ) demonstrated minimal muscle inflammation and necrosis , preserved muscle fiber arrangement , and more pronounced regeneration . Late interventions ( 12 and 24 h ) were associated with intense inflammation , necrosis , edema , and hemorrhage in muscle tissue . Immediate amputation ( 0 h ) limited toxic metabolite effects , reducing kidney inflammation and damage . Late interventions showed increased interstitial nephritis and inflammatory cell infiltration in kidney tissue . Biochemical analyses revealed that urinary myoglobin levels decreased and renal function was preserved in the early intervention groups . CONCLUSIONS : The timing of surgical intervention is critical in managing crush syndrome . Early amputation and fasciotomy minimized necrosis and inflammation in muscle tissue , supported tissue regeneration , and reduced systemic complications by preventing toxic metabolite accumulation in the kidneys . Early amputation particularly showed superior renal protection and lower systemic complication risks compared to late interventions . These findings highlight the importance of timely surgical action and provide valuable insights for developing effective treatment strategies in disaster settings . However , the descriptive nature of the study and the fact that the data obtained from the experimental model cannot be directly applied to clinical practice should be taken into account . Therefore , the findings should be supported by future clinical trials .
BACKGROUND : Understanding the regional HPV genotype profile is critical for informing targeted vaccination strategies and optimizing cervical cancer screening programs to enhance their effectiveness . This study investigated the prevalence and distribution of human papillomavirus ( HPV ) genotypes among women with cervical squamous cell carcinoma ( CSCC ) in Linyi city , China , from 2015 to METHODS : Data were obtained from 606 women histologically diagnosed with CSCC at Linyi Cancer Hospital between January 2015 and December DNA was extracted from paraffin-embedded tissue samples . HPV genotyping was performed via gene chip-based polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) technology . Temporal trends and age-specific variations in HPV genotype distribution were analyzed to provide a comprehensive epidemiological assessment . RESULTS : The overall prevalence of HPV infection was 7% among 606 women with CSCC . HPV 16 was the most prevalent genotype ( 5% ) , followed by HPV 18 ( 2% ) , HPV 33 ( 8% ) , HPV 31 ( 8% ) , and HPV 58 ( 8% ) . Single infections were predominant ( 5% ) , while coinfections were observed in 5% of the cases . Age-specific analysis revealed that non-HPV 16 infections were more prevalent in women aged > 45 years , with greater genotype diversity in older age groups . Temporal trends indicated a decline in the prevalence of younger CSCC patients ( 26-45 years ) , whereas the prevalence of older women significantly increased . CONCLUSION : Our study revealed that HPV genotype diversity in CSCC patients varies with age , highlighting the need for age-stratified and personalized cervical cancer prevention strategies . Enhanced screening efforts for older women are essential because of the greater genotypes diversity in this group . Additionally , the observed trends in HPV prevalence over time suggest that HPV vaccination has effectively reduced the incidence of CSCC in women under 45 years of age . These findings emphasize the importance of expanding vaccination coverage and optimizing screening programs to further reduce the cervical cancer burden across different age groups .
BACKGROUND : The preservation of epididymal spermatozoa is useful for saving important genetic material from valuable individuals who die suddenly or have to be castrated . The birth of puppies after artificial insemination with canine epididymal spermatozoa has been reported in only a few cases . Surgical insemination with frozen-thawed epididymal spermatozoa has resulted in pregnancies , but usually with low conception rates . Freshly collected and chilled epididymal canine semen has also resulted in conception after vaginal insemination . Considering the invasiveness of surgical insemination and the almost unlimited storage time of cryopreserved spermatozoa , transcervical intrauterine insemination with frozen-thawed epididymal spermatozoa would be beneficial . It has the potential to use genetic material that would otherwise be lost , both in domestic dogs and for the preservation of wild threatened canids . CASE PRESENTATION : A 7-year-old , 20 kg male hunting dog was injured by a wild boar during hunting , and euthanasia was recommended for welfare reasons . Because the dog was a hunting champion in a numerically very small breed , the owner wanted to have spermatozoa preserved for future breeding . The dog was anaesthetised , both testes were removed , and the dog was thereafter euthanized . Spermatozoa from both caudae epididymides were released in a prewarmed Uppsala extender with the mincing method . The samples were routinely frozen with the Uppsala method . A half-filled straw was used for test thawing , resulting in 20% motile spermatozoa with slow progressive movement . Three years later , a 23-month-old bitch of the same breed was inseminated with endoscopically guided transcervical intrauterine sperm deposition . She was inseminated once , five days after a serum progesterone value of 9 nmol/mL was reached , and two days after a value of 8 nmol/mL was reached . The total amount of cryopreserved spermatozoa was used ( a total dose of 1087 x 10 spermatozoa and 217 x 10 progressively motile spermatozoa remaining after test thawing ) . Eight puppies were born 59 days after insemination . CONCLUSIONS : Although rarely reported , artificial insemination with cryopreserved epididymal canine spermatozoa is an alternative in preserving valuable genetic animals when a male is injured beyond recovery .
Oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) was the most common malignant type of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) with a low survival rate . The microbiota in oral cavity or tumor tissues may play a critical role in the OSCC . In this study , we characterized the microbiota from oral cancer tissues , oral swabs and saliva of patients with OSCC using 16S rRNA sequencing . We found differential profiles and amounts of microbiota in oral cancer tissues compared with adjacent tissues , as well as in oral swabs and saliva from OSCC patients compared with healthy individuals . Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas endodontalis were found increased in cancer tissues and saliva from OSCC patients . Prevotella melaninogenica was found increased in the saliva and oral swabs from OSCC patients . These data suggested that microbiota varied according to different samples . Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) analysis indicated an important role of metabolic pathways in the interaction between microbiota and cancers . Then we analyzed the metabolites from cancer tissues and saliva of OSCC patients by liquid chromatograph-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) and gas chromatograph-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . Differential profiles of metabolites were also observed in the cancer tissues compared with adjacent tissues and in the saliva from OSCC patients compared with healthy individuals . It showed that denticulaflavonol was significantly increased while D-mannose was significantly decreased in both cancer tissues and saliva of OSCC patients . Taken together , these results suggested an association between microbiota/metabolites ( such as Fusobacterium and mannose ) and OSCC , in which the molecular mechanism need further investigated .
Breast cancer remains one of the most prevalent malignancies worldwide , underscoring an urgent need for innovative therapeutic strategies . Immunotherapy has emerged as a transformative frontier in this context . In triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) , the combination of immunotherapy based on PD-1/PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) with chemotherapy has proven efficacious in both early and advanced clinical trials . These encouraging results have led to the approval of ICIs for TNBC , opening up new therapeutic avenues for challenging-to-treat patient populations . Furthermore , a multitude of ongoing trials are actively investigating the efficacy of immunotherapy-based combinations , including ICIs in conjunction with chemotherapy , targeted therapy and radiation therapy , as well as other novel strategies such as bispecific antibodies , CAR-T cells and cancer vaccines across all breast cancer subtypes , including HR-positive/HER2-negative and HER2-positive disease . This review provides a comprehensive overview of current immunotherapeutic approaches in breast cancer , highlighting pivotal findings from recent clinical trials and the potential impact of these advancements on patient outcomes .
Carbon ion radiotherapy ( CIRT ) , a type of particle therapy , is at the forefront of clinical oncology treatments due to its superior physical properties and biological performance . Although CIRT has demonstrated outstanding therapeutic outcomes in clinical settings , the biological mechanisms underpinning its effects , particularly its immunogenic potential and the superiority of its induced antitumor immune response compared to photon radiotherapy , remain areas of active investigation . This review summarizes the latest research progress on the mechanisms of antitumor immune responses triggered by CIRT and discusses preclinical and clinical studies related to combined CIRT and immunotherapy ( CCIT ) . Against the backdrop of extensive research and significant clinical efficacy achieved by combining radiotherapy with immunotherapy , this review provides a theoretical foundation for a better understanding of the superior tumor cell-killing effects of CIRT and the underlying immunological mechanisms . Further insights into the factors affecting the efficacy , toxic effects , and developmental limitations of this combination therapy mode will be instrumental in guiding the conduction of CCIT studies .
BACKGROUND : Disaccharide polyene macrolides exhibit superior water solubility and significantly reduced hemolytic toxicity compared to their monosaccharide counterparts , making them promising candidates for safer antifungal therapeutics . In this study , we engineered a Streptomyces gilvosporeus ( pSET152-nppY ) capable of producing disaccharide-pimaricin ( DSP ) through heterologous expression of the nppY gene , which encodes a glycosyltransferase responsible for the second sugar extension in the biosynthetic pathway . RESULTS : The novel compound was structurally characterized and designated disaccharide-pimaricin ( DSP ) , featuring an aglycone identical to pimaricin and a unique disaccharide moiety ( mycosaminyl-alpha1-4-N-acetylglucosamine ) . A purification protocol for DSP was established . Compared to pimaricin , DSP demonstrated a 50% reduction in antifungal activity , a 6-fold decrease in hemolytic toxicity , and a remarkable 6-fold increase in water solubility . Growth analysis revealed a delayed growth cycle in the mutant strain , suggesting that nppY expression may impose additional metabolic burden . Optimization of the fermentation medium using a statistical design identified an optimal formulation , with a maximum DSP titer of 168 mg/L . CONCLUSIONS : This study underscores the potential of disaccharide polyene macrolides as safer antifungal agents and establishes a robust framework for engineering strains to produce these compounds . The findings provide critical insights into balancing biosynthetic efficiency and strain fitness , advancing the development of next-generation polyene antibiotics .
With the rapid development of nanotechnology , layered double hydroxides ( LDHs ) have attracted considerable attention in the biomedical field due to their highly tunable composition and structure , superior biocompatibility , multifunctional bioactivity , and exceptional drug delivery performance . However , a focused and comprehensive review addressing the role of LDHs specifically in tissue regeneration has been lacking . This review aims to fill that gap by providing a systematic and in-depth overview of recent advances in the application of LDHs across various regenerative domains , including bone repair , cartilage reconstruction , angiogenesis , wound healing , and nerve regeneration . Beyond presenting emerging applications , the review places particular emphasis on elucidating the underlying mechanisms through which LDHs exert their therapeutic effects . Although LDHs demonstrate considerable promise in regenerative medicine , their clinical translation remains in its infancy . To address this , we not only provided our insights into the personalized problems that arise in the application of various tissues , but also focused on discussing and prospecting the common challenges in the clinical translation of LDHs . These challenges include optimizing synthesis techniques , enhancing biosafety and stability , improving drug-loading efficiency , designing multifunctional composite materials , and establishing pathways that facilitate the transition from laboratory research to clinical practice .
BACKGROUND : Proteases are important enzymes in food and pharmaceutical industries , but challenges persist in their recombinant production due to host cell proteome hydrolysis and fitness loss . The development of recombinant expression systems for directed evolution of proteolytic enzymes , and industrial production are desirable . This study evaluated Saccharomyces cerevisiae as expression host for three bacterial proteases : BdpK ( from Bdellovibrio bacteriovorus ) , IdeS , and SpeB ( both from Streptococcus pyogenes ) , each with distinct peptide substrate scopes . RESULTS : We developed an experimental pipeline for analysis of protease gene expression levels and fitness effects on yeast cultures . Heterologous genes were fused with green fluorescent protein and their expression and effects on cell viability was monitored at the single-cell level by flow cytometry . IdeS-GFP fusion was produced efficiently with a gaussian distribution within the population and without compromising cell growth or viability . BdpK , on the other hand , displayed lower expression level and a more heterogenous distribution that was less stable over time . Production of SpeB was not feasible . Inserting the speB-GFP fusion gene resulted in complete growth inhibition and a significantly higher frequency of cells with compromised membrane integrity . Plasmid-based expression was compared with integrated-based expression , revealing higher total expression levels and lower degree of population heterogeneity for the latter . CONCLUSIONS : S . cerevisiae was found to be an efficient expression host for the bacterial protease IdeS . In contrast , the expression of BdpK and SpeB faced significant challenges , including lack of activity for BdpK , or imposing a substantial fitness burden on the cells for SpeB , likely due to its broad substrate scope resulting in native protein degradation . The findings of this study provide valuable insights into the limitations and possibilities of yeast as an expression host for bacterial protease production and for studying their physiological effects using yeast as a model eukaryote .
BACKGROUND : HBV integration is considered as the main contributor to hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . However , whether HBV integrated sequences determine genotype pathogenicity and how to block their function during HCC progression remains unclear . METHODS : An in vitro HBV-infected PHH model and liver cancer cell lines were established to confirm the pathogenic potential of HBV-SITEs . The roles of HBV-SITE-1 in HCC development were analyzed using cellular phenotypic assays and molecular biology techniques , including the combined analysis of RNA-seq and ChIP-seq . Animal models were also used to evaluate the therapeutic effect of HBV-miR-2 inhibitors . RESULTS : We identified nine fragments of HBV Sequences Integrated To Enhancer , termed as " HBV-SITEs " . Particularly , a single nucleotide variation ( T > G ) was embedded at seed sequence of HBV-miR-2 in the highest integrated HBV-SITE-1 between genotypes B and H . Unexpectedly , B-HBV-SITE-1 , not H-HBV-SITE-1 , could abnormally activate oncogenic genes including TERT and accelerate HCC cell proliferation and migration . Meanwhile , HBV-miR-2 was gradually increased in HBV-infected cells and patient plasma with different HCC stages . Importantly , 227 genes upregulated by HBV , were also activated by HBV-miR-2 through triggering HBV-SITE-1 enhancer . Conversely , enhancer activities were particularly decreased by HBV-miR-2 inhibitors , and further downregulated activated oncogenic genes . Finally , HCC growth was dramatically restrained and HBV-induced transcripts were systematically reduced via injection of HBV-miR-2 inhibitors in animal models . CONCLUSION : HBV-SITEs were identified as novel oncogenic elements for HCC , which provides an insightful perspective for the other cancers caused by oncogenic DNA viruses . We demonstrated that the integrated HBV sequence itself acted as oncogenic enhancers and nucleotide variations of HBV genotypes account for particular pathogenic progression , supporting that the viral nucleotide sequences are vital pathogenic substances beyond viral proteins . And modulation of their enhancer activities could be clinically achievable strategy for blocking DNA viruses-related cancer progression in the future .
Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) and atherosclerosis ( AS ) are two interacting diseases mostly affecting aged adults . AD is characterized by the deposition of neuritic plaques mainly consisting of Abeta , and AS is defined by the formation of atheromatous plaque along the vascular wall . The shared mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of AD and AS remain unclear . Here we applied several bioinformatic analyses of bulk sequencing data sets of AD brain tissues and atherosclerotic plaques to seek relevant genes between AD and AS . WIPF3 , was identified as the most affected gene in both diseases using weighted gene co-expression network analysis , machine-learning-based Lasso Cox regression analysis and random forest analysis . Furthermore , immune cell infiltration analysis of AS data sets and cell portion of single-cell RNA sequencing data from AD patients revealed an essential role of inflammation in the co-occurrence of AD and AS . Taken together , WIPF3 deficiency and inflammation may simultaneously mediate both AD and AS and could be potential targets for the prevention and therapy of these two closely related diseases .
BACKGROUND : Neurological disorders , ranging from common conditions like Alzheimer ' s disease that is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and remains the most common cause of dementia worldwide to rare disorders such as Angelman syndrome , impose a significant global health burden . Altered facial expressions are a common symptom across these disorders , potentially serving as a diagnostic indicator . Deep learning algorithms , especially convolutional neural networks ( CNNs ) , have shown promise in detecting these facial expression changes , aiding in diagnosing and monitoring neurological conditions . OBJECTIVES : This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the performance of deep learning algorithms in detecting facial expression changes for diagnosing neurological disorders . METHODS : Following PRISMA2020 guidelines , we systematically searched PubMed , Scopus , and Web of Science for studies published up to August Data from 28 studies were extracted , and the quality was assessed using the JBI checklist . A meta-analysis was performed to calculate pooled accuracy estimates . Subgroup analyses were conducted based on neurological disorders , and heterogeneity was evaluated using the I statistic . RESULTS : The meta-analysis included 24 studies from 2019 to 2024 , with neurological conditions such as dementia , Bell ' s palsy , ALS , and Parkinson ' s disease assessed . The overall pooled accuracy was 25% ( 95% CI 75-73% ) . High accuracy was found for dementia ( 99% ) and Bell ' s palsy ( 7% ) , while conditions such as ALS and stroke had lower accuracy ( 2% ) . CONCLUSIONS : Deep learning models , particularly CNNs , show strong potential in detecting facial expression changes for neurological disorders . However , further work is needed to standardize data sets and improve model robustness for motor-related conditions .
BACKGROUND : Immunosenescence is characterized by a decline in naive T cells , a reduced T cell receptor repertoire , and the accumulation of terminally-differentiated and unspecifically-activated proinflammatory cells , a process called inflammageing . Premature immunosenescence is thought to be pathogenetically relevant in rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , either by posing a risk factor for its development , or by advancing the rheumatic disease as a result of excess antigenic and inflammatory stimulation . We investigated parameters of immunosenescence in RA patients treated with conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs ( csDMARDs ) only compared to patients treated additionally or exclusively with a tumor necrosis factor inhibitor ( TNFi ) and age-matched healthy controls to investigate the effect of RA treatment on age-associated T cell phenotypes and functions . RESULTS : The csDMARD-only treated patients , compared to the TNFi-treated patients and healthy controls , displayed an enhanced age-dependent decline in CD31 ( + ) recent thymic emigrants ( RTE ) and Interleukin-7 ( IL-7 ) -receptor alpha-chain ( CD127 ) -expressing CD4 ( + ) T cells participating in IL-7-associated homeostatic proliferation , a diminished proliferation of RTE and CD127 ( + ) T cells , as well as reduced T cell receptor excision circle ( TREC ) counts . However , whereas the RA patients exhibited reduced proportions of unspecifically activated IFNgamma- and IL-17-producing T cells , TNFi initiation induced an increase in these proinflammatory cells . CONCLUSIONS : Whereas a TNFi treatment seems to counteract the non-inflammatory aspects of immunosenescence , it induces increasing proportions of terminally-differentiated , cytokine-producing effector memory T cells , requiring awareness as possibly contributing to secondary autoimmune phenomena in RA .
BACKGROUND : The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) plays a pivotal role in cancer progression , with cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) significantly influencing tumor behavior . Especially , elevated COX2 expressing fibroblasts within the TME , notably in collagen-dense tumors like breast cancer , has been recently emphasized in the literature . However , the specific effect of COX2-expressing CAFs ( COX2 ( + ) CAFs ) on neighboring cells and their consequent role in cancer progression is not fully elucidated . METHODS : We induced COX2 ( + ) fibroblasts by forcing the fibroblasts forming aggregates to undergo Nemosis as a proxy for COX2 ( + ) CAFs . This approach enabled us to simulate the paracrine interactions between COX2 ( + ) CAFs and normal breast epithelial cells via conditioned media from COX2 ( + ) fibroblasts . We developed an innovative in vitro platform that combines cell mechanics-based analysis and biomolecular assays to study the interactions between COX2 ( + ) fibroblasts and normal breast epithelial cells . By focusing on the mechanical characteristics of the cells and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) marker expressions , we aimed to elucidate the paracrine mechanisms through which COX2 ( + ) CAFs influence the tumor microenvironment . RESULTS : Our in vitro findings demonstrate that COX2 ( + ) fibroblasts , through conditioned media , induce significant alterations in the mechanical behavior of normal breast epithelial cells , as evidenced by monolayer expansion measurements using traction force microscopy ( TFM ) . This transition was further corroborated by single-cell morphology and motility analyses , as well as increased expression of mesenchymal markers , including SNAI1 at the mRNA level and vimentin at the protein level . EP4 inhibition partially reversed these changes , preserving cell-cell interactions , limiting monolayer expansion , and reducing mesenchymal-like features , suggesting that PGE2-EP4 signaling plays a key role in mediating the paracrine effects of COX2 ( + ) fibroblasts . Together , our findings support a model in which PGE2-EP4 signaling contributes to EMT induction , potentially involving SNAI1 regulation , with implications for targeting stromal-epithelial interactions in breast cancer . CONCLUSION : This study advances our understanding of the potential mechanisms by which COX2 ( + ) CAFs influence tumor progression within the breast tumor microenvironment ( TME ) through controlled in vitro investigations . By integrating cell mechanics-based analysis , biomolecular assays , and innovative in vitro cell-based modeling of COX2 ( + ) CAFs , we have delineated the contributory role of these cells in a controlled setting . These insights lay a groundwork for future studies that could explore the implications of these findings in vivo , potentially guiding targeted therapeutic strategies .
OBJECTIVE : The results of this research contribute to the LifeSaver project , which focuses on reducing neonatal and infant mortality resulting from preterm births . The project aims to create an in vitro system simulating prenatal conditions to screen and analyze chemicals and pharmaceuticals , establishing scientifically justified regulations for their use during pregnancy . Because several papers have recently identified data inconsistencies in pre-clinical studies , a key part of the project involves optimizing cellular cytotoxicity assays to enhance the reliability of pharmacological and toxicity screening for drugs and environmental contaminants . RESULTS : The resazurin-based viability assay was chosen as the primary method due to its widespread adoption and simplicity in assessing drug cytotoxicity . This work describes the optimization of the resazurin-based viability assay on the P-MSC/TERT308 cell line , a placenta-derived mesenchymal stem cell used within the LifeSaver project . By applying our previously described and validated Standard Operating Procedure , we fine-tuned experimental parameters , consistently obtaining reliable results with measurement uncertainty of less than 10% .
BACKGROUND : Alternative splicing ( AS ) is consistently linked to tumor progression . SRSF1 , the first identified proto-oncogene in the serine/arginine-rich splicing factor ( SRSF ) protein family , plays a crucial role . However , the specific functions and potential mechanisms of SRSF1 in advancing bladder cancer ( BCa ) progression and influencing chemosensitivity remain largely unexplored . METHODS : The expression of SRSF1 in BCa tissues and cell lines was investigated using quantitative real-time PCR ( RT-qPCR ) and western blotting . Survival analysis was employed to examine the association between SRSF1 expression and prognosis of BCa . The functions of SRSF1 were evaluated through proliferation assays , migration assays , IC50 determination assays , and tumorigenesis assays in nude mice . Subsequent RNA sequencing validated the relationship between SRSF1 alternative splicing and the mitophagy pathway . Mitochondrial membrane potential ( MMP ) was assessed using JC-1 staining . Mitophagy and autophagic flux were quantified using transmission electron microscopy and fluorescence imaging . RNA immunoprecipitation , CUT & RUN assays , and luciferase reporter assays were performed to validate the SRSF1/HIF1A/BNIP3 axis . RESULTS : High expression of SRSF1 in BCa was significantly associated with poor prognosis . SRSF1 promoted the progression of BCa cells and conferred resistance to cisplatin both in vitro and in vivo . Mechanistically , SRSF1 interacted with pre-HIF1A via the RRM1/RRM2 domain , thereby enhancing the production of the transcription factor HIF1A through the alternative splicing pathway . This interaction subsequently activated the HIF1A/BNIP3 axis , which promoted mitophagy in BCa . Ultimately , this led to further progression of bladder cancer and a decrease in cisplatin sensitivity . CONCLUSIONS : SRSF1 indicated poor prognosis and promoted the progression and cisplatin resistance of BCa cells through the HIF1A/BNIP3/mitophagy axis . It holds significant potential as a novel biomarker for the diagnosis and treatment of BCa , particularly in chemotherapy .
BACKGROUND : Cadaverine , displaying potential in medicine , agriculture and polyamide production , is biologically produced through L-lysine decarboxylation . Considering the potential of the polyamide market , its biological production has been focused on with following diverse efforts to improve the production . In Escherichia coli , lysine decarboxylase exists in two forms : CadA and LdcC , and it is known that CadA exhibits superior catalytic activity compared to LdcC . Despite its potential , cadaverine production is limited due to increased intracellular pH , which destabilizes the decameric structure of CadA and inhibits its activity . RESULTS : In this study , based on the structural analysis , a chimeric CadA enzyme , CL2 , was engineered by replacing its pH-sensitive region with a structurally stable counterpart derived from LdcC . The resulting BLCL2 strain with CL2 produced 12 g/L of cadaverine-96 times higher than BLC strain with the wild type CadA in flask culture . Compared to the wild type CadA , structural modifications enhanced pH stability and improved the affinity of CadA toward pyridoxal 5-phosphate ( PLP ) , its cofactor . CONCLUSIONS : This study developed the improved strains for cadaverine production by creating the new enzyme , which is validated by enhanced amount of cadaverine . In addition , the segmental swapping guided by structure analysis was exhibited as the one of effective method in protein engineering strategies . These advancements offer a promising approach to optimizing cadaverine biosynthesis for industrial applications .
Chronic back pain and disability are primarily caused by intervertebral disc degeneration ( IDD ) that requires novel therapies to regenerate the nucleus pulposus ( NP ) and restore disc function . In this study , a bioengineered thermo-sensitive injectable hydrogel composed of co-polymeric poly-N-isopropyl acrylamide-grafted-chondroitin sulfate cross-linked with sodium alginate microspheres ( PNIA-g-CS-NaA Ms : denote HMs ) loaded with growth differentiation factor 5 ( GDF-5 ) , to stimulate Nucleus Pulposus cells ( NPCs ) activity and promote intervertebral disc ( IVD ) regeneration . The Low critical solution temperature ( LCST ) of PNIA-g-CS was 8 and 3 degrees C at 5% ( w/v ) and 15% ( w/v ) , respectively . In the in vitro study , GDF-5-loaded hydrogel ( 1 mg/mL ) marginally enhanced NPC proliferation and reduced inflammatory cytokines ( TNF-alpha , IL-6 , IL-1beta ) after 24 h . HMs-GDF-5 combined with Adipose-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells ( ADMSCs ) was delivered to NP tissue using a minimally invasive technique , promoting NP regeneration in rats . At 8 weeks , significant upregulation of COL-II and ACAN proteins and mRNA expressions was observed . X-ray imaging showed disc height recovery and increased water content , while histology revealed partial restoration of NPCs and matrix . The outcomes show that the biodegradable hydrogel could be used as a potential therapeutic agent for IVD repair .
BACKGROUND : Excess utilization of translational resources is a critical source of burden on cells engineered to overexpress exogenous proteins . To improve translational efficiency , researchers often modify codon usage in an exogenous gene to more closely match the composition of a host organism ' s highly expressed genes . Despite empirical data showing the benefits of codon optimization , little is known about the quantitative relationships between codon usage , protein yield , and the burden imposed on a host cell by protein overexpression . RESULTS : We develop and experimentally evaluate a stochastic gene expression model that considers the impact of codon usage bias on the availability of ribosomes and different tRNAs in a cell . In agreement with other studies , our model shows that increasing exogenous protein expression decreases production of native cellular proteins in a linear fashion . We also find that the slope of this relationship is modulated by how well the codon usage bias of the exogenous gene and the host ' s genes match . Lastly , our model predicts that an overoptimization domain exists where further increasing usage of optimal codons worsens yield and burden . We test our model by expressing sfGFP and mCherry2 from constructs that have a wide range of codon optimization levels in Escherichia coli . The results agree with our model , including for an mCherry2 gene sequence that appears to less efficiently express this gene due to codon overoptimization . CONCLUSIONS : Our model reproduces experimentally observed relationships between codon usage bias , gene expression , and burden for overexpressed proteins . Furthermore , it suggests that more nuanced recoding strategies that seek to match a host ' s overall codon usage bias are less burdensome and will lead to greater protein yields compared to strategies that simply maximize usage of optimal codons . Increasing the level of mechanistic detail in gene expression models can lead to insights that allow researchers to engineer more optimal cellular systems .
Membrane contact sites are specialized regions where organelle membranes are in close proximity , enabling lipid transfer while preserving membrane identity . In plants , ERchloroplast contact sites are critical for maintaining glycerolipid homeostasis . This review examines the lipid-modifying and lipid-transfer proteins/complexes involved in these processes . Key proteins at these sites , including components of the TGD and VAP27ORP2A complexes , as well as Sec14 proteins , facilitate lipid exchange . Additionally , the roles of lipid-modifying proteins at these contact sites are discussed . Despite significant progress , further research is needed to identify additional proteins , investigate ERchloroplast dynamics under stress and explore ER contact sites in non-chloroplast plastids .
BACKGROUND : Resilience is crucial for lung cancer patients to navigate the challenges they face . However , current research on the barriers to resilience , particularly in relation to various levels of stressors , is limited . This study seeks to explore and analyze the barriers at various levels affecting resilience among preoperative lung cancer patients . METHODS : A descriptive phenomenological qualitative research method was employed , conducting semi-structured interviews with 23 patients who had received a preliminary diagnosis of lung cancer and were preparing for surgical treatment . Data were analyzed using Colaizzi ' s seven-step method within the social-ecological framework . RESULTS : Three categories and 11 themes were identified among lung cancer patients : ( i ) Micro-level system : Individual vulnerability ( Fear of the unknown , Empathy for pain , Self-blame , Physical function decline , Waning interest ) . ( ii ) Meso-level system : Unstable family structure ( Family enmeshment , Role conflicts , Communication barriers between couples ) . ( iii ) Macro-level system : Weak support systems ( Lung cancer demonization , Workplace discrimination , Insufficient information support ) . CONCLUSION : This study sheds light on barriers to resilience at the individual , family , and societal levels among preoperative lung cancer patients . Given the variability in patient experiences , there is a critical need for patient-centered psychological , informational , and self-management support . Particularly in China , enhancing public awareness of lung cancer stands as a vital measure . Exploring the intricate dynamics of the empathy for pain , familial enmeshment , and the demonization of lung cancer emerges as pivotal areas for future inquiry . These knowledge can inform enhanced pain management strategies , improved family support systems , and a more accurate and less stigmatizing perception of lung cancer . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The registered No . from Chinese Clinical Trial Registry ( CHICTR ) was ChiCTR2300074853 and the registration date is August 17 , 2023 ( Archived by Webcite at https : //www . chictr . org . cn/showproj . html ? proj=205091 ) .
BACKGROUND : Glioblastoma ( GBM ) is a highly resistant tumor , and targeting its bioenergetics could be a potential treatment strategy . GBM cells depend on cytosolic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) , which is transported into the mitochondria via the malate-aspartate shuttle ( MAS ) for ATP production . N-phenylmaleimide ( KN612 ) is a MAS inhibitor that targets SLC25A11 , an antiporter protein of the MAS . Therefore , this study investigated the effects of KN612 in GBM treatment using in vitro and in vivo models . METHODS : We examined the biological effects of KN612 in GBM tumorspheres ( TSs ) , including its effects on cell viability , ATP level , cell cycle , stemness , invasive properties , energy metabolic pathways , and transcriptomes . Additionally , we investigated the in vivo efficacy of KN612 in a mouse orthotopic xenograft model . RESULTS : Transcriptomic analysis showed that SLC25A11 mRNA expression was significantly higher in GBM TSs than in normal human astrocytes . Additionally , siRNA-mediated SLC25A11 knockdown and KN612-mediated MAS inhibition decreased the oxygen consumption rate , ATP levels , mitochondrial activity , and cell viability in GBM TSs and decreased the stemness and invasion ability of GBM cells . Moreover , gene ontology functional annotation indicated that KN612 treatment inhibited cell-cycle and mitotic processes . Furthermore , KN612 treatment reduced tumor size and prolonged survival in an orthotopic xenograft model . CONCLUSIONS : Targeting GBM bioenergetics using KN612 may represent a novel and effective approach for GBM treatment .
BACKGROUND : As machine learning ( ML ) continuously develops in cancer diagnosis and treatment , some researchers have attempted to predict the expression of programmed death ligand-1 ( PD-L1 ) in non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) by ML . However , there is a lack of systematic evidence on the effectiveness of ML . METHODS : We conducted a thorough search across Embase , PubMed , the Cochrane Library , and Web of Science from inception to December 14th , A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to assess the value of ML for predicting PD-L1 expression in NSCLC . RESULTS : Totally 30 studies with 12 , 898 NSCLC patients were included . The thresholds of PD-L1 expression level were < 1% , 1-49% , and >/= 50% . In the validation set , in the binary classification for PD-L1 >/= 1% , the pooled C-index was 646 ( 95%CI : 587-705 ) , 799 ( 95%CI : 782-817 ) , 806 ( 95%CI : 753-858 ) , and 800 ( 95%CI : 717-883 ) , respectively , for the clinical feature- , radiomics- , radiomics + clinical feature- , and pathomics-based ML models ; in the binary classification for PD-L1 >/= 50% , the pooled C-index was 649 ( 95%CI : 553-744 ) , 771 ( 95%CI : 728-814 ) , and 826 ( 95%CI : 783-869 ) , respectively , for the clinical feature- , radiomics- , and radiomics + clinical feature-based ML models . CONCLUSIONS : At present , radiomics- or pathomics-based ML methods are applied for the prediction of PD-L1 expression in NSCLC , which both achieve satisfactory accuracy . In particular , the radiomics-based ML method seems to have wider clinical applicability as a non-invasive diagnostic tool . Both radiomics and pathomics serve as processing methods for medical images . In the future , we expect to develop medical image-based DL methods for intelligently predicting PD-L1 expression .
The potential of glioblastoma ( GBM ) photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is limited by inadequate GBM drug delivery , and the development of resistance to PDT as a result of cellular damage response that critically involves the hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha ( HIF-1alpha ) and yes-associated protein ( YAP ) . Herein , addressing these challenges , we demonstrated a strategy of photo-controlled , targeted co-delivery of verteporfin ( Vp ) , a photosensitizer and YAP inhibitor as well , and acriflavine ( Af ) , a HIF-1alpha inhibitor via platelets for enhanced GBM PDT . Mouse platelets were separately loaded with Vp ( Vp@Plt ) and Af ( Af@Plt ) and the mixture thereof is termed Vp@Plt + Af@Plt . Alternatively , platelets were simultaneously loaded with Vp and Af to yield ( Vp + Af ) @Plt . First , both Vp@Plt + Af@Plt and ( Vp + Af ) @Plt were shown to achieve rapid and efficient laser-triggered , GBM-targeted delivery of Vp and Af , which led to markedly higher phototoxicity in the GBM cells ( GBCs ) and ultimately more potent GBM PDT than Vp@Plt in mice . Next , a mechanistic study revealed the induction of a mutually promotional interaction of HIF-1alpha and YAP in the GBCs in response to PDT-inflicted DNA damage . This interaction protected HIF-1alpha from degradation and meanwhile assisted in the nuclear translocation of YAP leading to increased nuclear presence of both HIF-1alpha and YAP and escalated DNA damage repair activity under their regulation . Both Af and Vp were found to block the PDT-induced HIF-1alpha-YAP interaction and thereby severely impaired DNA damage repair , eventually resulting in exacerbated cell death . In conclusion , Af and Vp can be adequately co-delivered in GBM via platelets in a photo-controlled manner to achieve efficacious GBM PDT through double blocking of the HIF-1alpha-YAP interaction in the GBCs .
BACKGROUND : METTL16 has recently emerged as an N6-methyladenosine ( mA ) methyltransferase that serves an integral role in tumor regulation . However , its involvement in lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) remains unexamined . This investigation aims to explore METTL16 ' s role and mechanism in LUAD progression . METHODS : The expression of METTL16 and G2 and S phase-expressed-1 ( GTSE1 ) in LUAD was evaluated by qRT-PCR or western blotting . LUAD cell malignancy was checked by CCK-8 , wound healing , and transwell invasion assays . The relationship among METTL16 and GTSE1 was determined via Pearson correlation analysis and MeRIP assay . The p53 pathway-related proteins were detected by western blotting , and cell cycle was analyzed by flow cytometry . RESULTS : METTL16 was elevated in LUAD , and its silencing significantly reduced LUAD cell proliferation , migration , and invasion . GTSE1 was significantly downregulated upon silencing METTL Furthermore , increased levels of GTSE1 mRNA and protein were found in LUAD , and it was correlated positively with METTL16 in LUAD tissues . The stability of GTSE1 was modulated by METTL16 in an mA-dependent way , and GTSE1 overexpression partially rescued the suppressive effects METTL16 silencing on LUAD cells . In addition , GTSE1 overexpression also inhibited p53 pathway to promote LUAD cell cycle . CONCLUSIONS : These results indicate that METTL16-mediated mA modification of GTSE1 accelerates LUAD progression by regulating p53 pathway and cell cycle . The aforementioned findings suggest METTL16 and GTSE1 may serve as potential targets for LUAD management .
INTRODUCTION : High myopia correction is essential for improving visual acuity and quality of life . Traditional intraocular collamer lens ( ICL ) implantation using an ophthalmic viscosurgical device ( OVD ) is effective but often results in prolonged surgical times , impacting patient comfort and recovery . This study investigates a novel non-OVD ICL implantation technique aimed at reducing surgical duration and improving patient outcomes . METHODS : This prospective , randomized controlled trial was conducted at Changsha Aier Eye Hospital from May to August 2024 , enrolling 162 right eyes from high myopic patients aged 21 to 45 years . Participants were randomly assigned to either the non-OVD group , which utilized a disposable sterile irrigator for anterior chamber maintenance , or the OVD group , which underwent traditional ICL implantation . Primary outcomes included surgical time , endothelial cell density ( ECD ) , intraocular pressure ( IOP ) , and patient-reported experiences . RESULTS : The non-OVD group demonstrated a significant reduction in surgical time ( 113 +/- 103 s ) compared to the OVD group ( 436 +/- 118 s , p < 001 ) . ECD and IOP remained stable postoperatively , indicating no adverse effects on ocular health . Patient experiences were assessed through pain levels and self-perception reports ; the non-OVD group reported comparable pain levels with enhanced self-perception compared to the OVD group . CONCLUSION : The novel non-OVD ICL implantation technique significantly reduces surgical duration while maintaining ocular health and improving patient self-perception . Additional to it , we also explored patients ' self-perception , which refers to their subjective evaluation of recovery , well-being , and visual outcomes post-surgery . Unlike satisfaction , which primarily measures how pleased patients are with the results , self-perception encompasses how patients feel about their overall recovery process , including psychological and emotional factors . This approach may enhance operational efficiency and patient comfort in high myopia surgeries . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The study was registered with the China Clinical Trial Registration Center ( Registration No . ChiCTR2100046483 , Trial Registration : 2021-03-06 ) .
BACKGROUND : Unicellular eukaryotes were widely considered to r eproduce without sex . However , recent findings suggest that meiosis , and by extension ( sometimes cryptic ) sexual reproduction , might be present in almost all eukaryotic lineages . RESULTS : Here , we investigate the transcriptomic response underlying starvation-induced fusion in the Rhizaria protist Fisculla terrestris . Investigations of differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) with a particular focus on the expression of meiosis-associated genes suggest that some form of meiosis and recombination might occur in these Rhizaria . CONCLUSIONS : We showed that starvation triggered changes in gene expression of meiosis-associated genes in F . terrestris . However , if these processes are coupled with sexual reproduction remains to be investigated .
BACKGROUND : Synthetic biology is a young but rapidly growing field that allows for assembling long DNA fragments , including complete chromosomes . A key approach for long-DNA assembly is the Transformation Associated Recombination ( TAR ) , which relies on efficient homologous recombination in yeast cells . Recent reports indicate that the TAR method efficiently assembles some human and animal viruses characterized by their large DNA genome size . The application of the TAR method to synthesize long DNA fragments derived from insect viruses is scarce . Therefore , this study aimed to explore the TAR approach for the construction of a long DNA fragment ( >6 Kb ) from the insecticidal Heliothesis virescens ascovirus 3h ( HvAV-3h ) dsDNA genome to assess the suitability of this approach in genome-wide engineering studies in this family of viruses . RESULTS : The long DNA fragment assembly process involved three stages : first , we amplified 15 segments of about 9-2 Kb each via PCR . Next , we recombined these segments through three parallel TAR cycles , producing medium-sized fragments of about 15 Kb . Finally , we assembled these fragments in a single TAR cycle to form a long DNA fragment of about 6 kb . We identified some positive clones by colony PCR or restriction digestion pattern . To assess the quality of the assembled DNA fragment , we conducted next-generation sequencing ( NGS ) . A comparative analysis of Sanger sequencing for medium-sized fragments and NGS data from the synthesized long-DNA fragment demonstrated a nearly matched mutation profile , suggesting that the identified mutations and deletions were present at initial synthesis . Both datasets aligned with the reference HvAV-3h strain , revealing three specific nucleotide mutations and three unique mutation regions . CONCLUSIONS : Overall , the in vivo TAR assembly method efficiently assembled a long DNA fragment derived from the ascovirus genome as a template . The process is cost-effective and can be scaled up to synthesize the entire genome for gene functional studies .
BACKGROUND : Lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) is the most common subtype of lung cancer . Folic acid metabolism-related genes ( FAMGs ) have received increased attention because of their distinct role in DNA synthesis and repair . Nevertheless , the function of FAMGs in LUAD remains ambiguous . METHODS : LUAD transcriptome data from GEO and TCGA were analyzed . Patients were classified into two clusters based on gene expression levels , revealing distinct overall survival ( OS ) outcomes . Common differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified between LUAD and normal tissues , as well as between the two clusters . A prognostic risk model was established using Cox regression analysis to predict outcomes of LUAD patients and was validated with Kaplan-Meier and ROC curve analysis . Clinical correlations and enrichment analyses were carried out to explore the functions of DEGs and their associations with clinical characteristics of LUAD patients . The tumor microenvironment and drug sensitivity were evaluated between two risk subgroups . Moreover , expression levels of prognostic genes were validated across datasets using the Wilcoxon-test . RESULTS : The study identified seventy-seven common DEGs and nine prognostic genes ( ANLN , PLK1 , DLGAP5 , PRC1 , CYP4B1 , MKI67 , KIF23 , BIRC5 , TK1 ) . The risk model could effectively predict the prognosis of LUAD patients . Clinical correlation analysis revealed that age , pathologic-T , pathologic-N , and tumor stage were significantly correlated with the risk score . Enrichment analysis showed that DEGs between the two risk subgroups were predominantly enriched in cell cycle and cellular senescence pathways . Differences in immune cell infiltration and immunotherapy markers were markedly noted between the two risk subgroups . Drug sensitivity analysis disclosed significantly diverse responses to sixty-eight drugs between the two risk subgroups . Consistent expression tendencies of prognostic genes were observed across datasets . CONCLUSION : The prognostic model based on FAMGs demonstrates considerable potential for guiding diagnosis and clinical management of LUAD patients .
BACKGROUND : Non-Invasive Prenatal Testing ( NIPT ) is a technique that allows pregnant women to screen for chromosomal abnormalities in their developing fetus without the need for invasive procedures like amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling . However , current methods to detect anomaly from maternal cell-free DNAs ( cfDNAs ) that are based on the sequence read counts calculating z-scores face challenges with false positives and negatives . To address these challenges , we aimed to develop a novel NIPT algorithm named KF-NIPT , which is derived from the initials of k-mer and fetal fraction used in its development with the goal of significantly improving accuracy . RESULTS : We developed a KF-NIPT , a new algorithm that estimate chromosomal anomaly by calculating K-mer-based sequence depth and fetal fraction from the whole genome sequencing ( WGS ) data . Moreover , we implemented a modified preprocessing pipeline for the WGS data , correcting the biases of the genomic mapping quality and the GC contents . The performance of our method was evaluated using publicly available NIPT data . We could demonstrate that our method has better accuracy and sensitivity compared to those of the previous methods . CONCLUSIONS : We found that using k-mer and fetal fraction reduces errors in NIPT and have integrated this into a pipeline , showing that the traditional read count-based z-score method can be improved . KF-NIPT is implemented in the R and Python environment . The source code is available at https : //github . com/eastbrain/KF-NIPT . KF-NIPT has been tested on Ubuntu Linux-64 server and Linux-64 on Windows using a WSL ( Windows Subsystem for Linux ) .
Ferroptosis is a novel iron-dependent type of programmed cell death that is characterized by the oxidation of lipids by divalent iron ions to produce lipid peroxides , which leads to cell death . Fucosyltransferase 11 ( FUT11 ) is highly expressed in most tumors and is involved in tumorigenesis . However , there have been few studies regarding the relationship between FUT11 and ferroptosis . In this study , we found that FUT11 expression was abnormally high in gastric cancer ( GC ) cells and that the prognosis of patients with GC and high expression of FUT11 was poor . FUT11 expression was significantly correlated with the TNM stage of GC . Specific knockdown of FUT11 significantly inhibited the proliferation of GC cells , reduced the abundance of the key anti-ferroptotic protein glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , induced lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis in GC cells , and inhibited the proliferation of these cells . The overexpression of GPX4 reduced the inhibitory effect of FUT11 on GC cells . In addition , the knockdown of FUT11 significantly inhibited GC tumor growth in mice , and this inhibitory effect was reduced by the overexpression of GPX In conclusion , we have shown that FUT11 promotes GC progression by targeting GPX4 , thereby inhibiting ferroptosis in GC cells . These findings suggest that FUT11 is a potential therapeutic target for GC .
BACKGROUND : Hearing loss represents an escalating global health concern with profound implications for individuals and society . While prior studies suggest that reproductive factors may influence women ' s auditory health , the specific association between the number of pregnancies and auditory function remains inadequately understood . This research aimed to investigate the association between the number of pregnancies and hearing loss in U . S . women . METHODS : We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 5 , 269 U . S . women aged 20 years and older from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) 1999- Reproductive health data , including the number of pregnancies , were obtained via self-reported questionnaires . Hearing loss was defined as a pure-tone average >/= 25 dB HL at speech frequencies ( 5 , 1 , 2 , and 4 kHz ) in the better-hearing ear . All analyses incorporated NHANES sample weights . Weighted multivariable logistic regression and restricted cubic spline regression were employed to evaluate the relationship between the number of pregnancies and hearing loss . Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were used to test the consistency and robustness of the association . And mediation analyses explored the roles of white blood cells and high-density lipoprotein in this association . RESULTS : A total of 5 , 269 adult women were included in the analysis , of whom 624 ( 81% ) exhibited hearing loss . After adjusting for confounders , the number of pregnancies was significantly associated with hearing loss ( OR : 12 ; 95% CI : 05-20 ; P < 001 ) . Conversely , the use of birth control pills was associated with lower odds of hearing loss ( OR : 67 ; 95% CI : 47-94 ; P < 05 ) . Restricted cubic spline regression demonstrated a linear increase in the odds of hearing loss with a greater number of pregnancies . This positive association was consistent across most subgroups . Mediation analyses revealed that white blood cells and high-density lipoprotein partially mediated this association . Sensitivity analyses , including alternative definitions of hearing loss and multiple imputation for missing covariates , confirmed the robustness of the results . CONCLUSION : Our findings demonstrated that a higher number of pregnancies was significantly associated with hearing loss , while birth control pill use appeared protective . These findings highlight the importance of recognizing potential auditory health implications associated with multiple pregnancies and may inform future public health strategies aimed at supporting women ' s hearing health across the reproductive lifespan .
BACKGROUND : The synchronous occurrence of adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma in distinct cervical regions is exceptionally rare . This report highlights a case of HPV-associated adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma at distinct sites in a patient with primary stage IA1 cervical cancer . CASE PRESENTATION : A 54-year-old female tested HPV type 18 positive in a routine physical exam . Cervical Liquid - based Cytology Test ( LCT ) showed Atypical Squamous Cells of Undetermined Significance ( ASCUS ) . Colposcopy-directed biopsies revealed moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma at multiple sites ( 3 , 6 , 9 , 12 o ' clock positions and the ECC ) , with a clinical diagnosis of stage IA Preoperative abdominal MRI ( including contrast enhancement ) showed no lymph node enlargement , and urinary CT urography was normal . Squamous cell carcinoma antigen levels were within the normal range .
BACKGROUND : Pyrus ussuriensis Maxim . are rich in nutrients , with a pleasant aroma and postharvest softening properties . Postharvest softening influences shelf life of fruit and fruit quality . Melatonin is a natural and safe preservative , which can effectively maintain fruit quality after harvesting , and delay softening of fruit . The aim of study was to elucidate mechanism of pear fruit softening and fruit aroma during postharvest storage and effect of melatonin . RESULTS : Ethylene production rate , respiration rate , weight loss of fruit , soluble solid content , titratable acidity were assessed , and transmission electron microscopy , metabolite profiling , and whole-transcriptome RNA-sequencing were performed . Four important pathways that pentose and glucuronate interconversion , galactose metabolism , sphingolipid metabolism and the starch and sucrose metabolism pathway were involved in pear fruit softening . Ethylene production pathway-related genes , such as ACS and ACO were involved in pear fruit softening and expression of that under exogenous melatonin treatment were slightly inhibited . Fruit aroma changed after storage mainly through lipoxygenase pathway under ddHO treatment and exogenous melatonin treatment changed composition of volatile organic compounds . CeRNA networks associated with pear softening and aroma were established . Mdm-miR159a , mdm-miR396a/b-p3 and mdm-miR408a were found to modulate both fruit softening and aroma formation through ceRNA analysis . Mdm-miR10988-p3 was functionally diverse and as major regulatory components in ceRNA network . CONCLUSIONS : This study indicated that degradation of cell wall caused pear fruit softening , lipoxygenase pathway mainly affected change of fruit aroma during postharvest storage and exogenous melatonin treatment could improve fruit firmness after storage and alter pear ' s aroma . The mechanism underlying these effects was elucidated , providing theoretical basis for study of pear fruit softening and preservation technology .
Sepsis-induced acute kidney injury ( S-AKI ) is a life-threatening complication of sepsis , marked by dysregulated inflammation , metabolic derangements , and immune dysfunction , driving high mortality . Its multifactorial pathogenesis increasingly implicates DNA methylation-a core epigenetic mechanism-as a critical disease modulator . This review synthesizes current knowledge of DNA methylation in S-AKI , covering molecular mechanisms , cellular dysfunction , and translational potential . In immune cells , sepsis-induced aberrant DNA methylation promotes hypomethylation of pro-inflammatory genes and hypermethylation of anti-inflammatory loci , exacerbating cytokine storms and immunosuppression . In renal tubular epithelial cells , abnormal methylation disrupts apoptosis , oxidative stress responses , and mitochondrial bioenergetics , impairing repair and accelerating S-AKI progression . Renal vascular endothelial cells exhibit methylation-dependent dysregulation of vasoactive and inflammatory pathways , compromising microvascular homeostasis and renal hemodynamics . DNA methylation signatures offer promise as early S-AKI biomarkers , with cell-type-specific patterns reflecting severity , injury , and prognosis . Targeting DNA methyltransferases with epigenetic modifiers represents a novel therapy , though challenges arise from sepsis ' s complex epigenetic landscape-bidirectional methylation changes , histone crosstalk , and context-dependent responses . A key paradox lies in DNA methylation ' s dual traits : stability underpinning biomarker reliability and plasticity enabling dynamic inflammatory adaptation , yet introducing therapeutic heterogeneity . Future research should prioritize dissecting cell-specific methylation mechanisms , integrating multi-omics to identify epigenetic subnetworks , and developing real-time monitoring tools for precision diagnosis and tailored interventions . Advancing these frontiers may translate epigenetic insights into transformative strategies to improve outcomes for this devastating condition .
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths globally . Prolonged targeted therapy use can lead to drug resistance and target mismatches , necessitating more effective and safer treatment strategies . Recent research has focused on the tumor microenvironment , which includes immune and stromal cells that play roles in tumor proliferation , metastasis , and neovascularization . Tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are key immune cells in the tumor microenvironment , promoting tumor invasion , metastasis , and immune escape . Their infiltration density in lung cancer tissue is a poor prognostic factor . Piperlongumine ( PL ) , extracted from Piper longum , possesses antitumor and anti-inflammatory properties , inducing apoptosis and inhibiting invasion and metastasis in lung cancer cells . This study aims to elucidate the correlation between endoplasmic reticulum stress ( ERS ) in lung cancer cells and M2-type TAM polarization and the role of PL in regulating lung cancer progression . The network pharmacologic analysis revealed that Piperlongumine inhibits lung cancer progression by inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress . In vivo experiments demonstrated that Piperlongumine significantly reduced tumor volume and decreased the proportion of M2-type macrophages . Within the co-culture system , lung cancer cells were shown to promote macrophage M2-type polarization and enhance cancer cell migration . Piperlongumine effectively inhibited these effects by inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress in cancer cells , thereby reducing M2 polarization and cell migration . The addition of endoplasmic reticulum stress inhibitor 4-PBA counteracted Piperlongumine ' s effects , further underscoring the crucial role of ERS in the treatment mechanism . Piperlongumine suppresses lung cancer growth by inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress , which inhibits macrophage M2-type polarization and reduces cell migration . These findings support Piperlongumine ' s potential as a therapeutic agent and offer a foundation for targeting endoplasmic reticulum stress to modulate TAM function in lung cancer treatment .
Knee osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a common degenerative joint disease that affects millions of people worldwide . Inflammation is one of the key pathogenic factors of knee OA . However , the causal relationship between immune cells and knee OA development remains unclear . Herein , we used Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis to evaluate causal relationship between 731 immune cells and knee OA . Several methods were applied to ensure the robustness of our results , including inverse-variance weighted ( IVW ) , simple mode , weighted median , weighted mode , and MR-Egger . We found that 23 immune cell phenotypes were causally associated with knee OA ( P < 05 ) , including various subpopulations of B cells , T cells , TBNK ( T cells , B cells , Natural Killer cells ) and monocytes , which was confirmed by heterogeneity , sensitivity , and pleiotropy tests . B cells had dominant effects on OA development , and specifically , our findings suggest that BAFF-R in IgD + CD38- unswitched memory B cells may have a protective role , whereas CD25 in IgD + CD24 + B cells appears to be associated with increased risk , pending further validation . Moreover , a higher population of regulatory T ( Treg ) cells indicated a higher risk of OA and reversely , OA could induce Treg differentiation . Collectively , our study identified several immune cells that were closely related to OA development , which provided novel insights into the pathogenesis of OA and therapeutic targets for OA treatment .
PURPOSE : To investigate the clinical indicators that can predict myocardial damage in children with mycoplasma pneumoniae pneumonia ( MPP ) to help early identification and management . METHODS : The clinical data of 123 MPP children admitted from December 2023 to February 2024 in the affiliated Changzhou Children ' s Hospital of Nantong University were analyzed retrospectively . According to the creatine kinase isoenzyme ( CK-MB ) level , the children were divided into 61 cases without myocardial damage group and 62 cases with myocardial damage group . Clinical manifestations and laboratory parameters were compared between the two groups . The factors affecting myocardial damage in children with MPP were analyzed by logistic regression . The ROC curve analyzed the predictive value of relevant indicators for myocardial damage in children with MPP . RESULTS : The incidence of abnormal electrocardiogram ( ECG ) , extrapulmonary manifestations ( except myocardial damage ) , white blood cell count ( WBC ) , neutrophil/lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) , erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR ) , albumin and other myocardial enzyme parameters in the myocardial damage group were higher than those in the group without myocardial damage ( P < 05 ) , and the median age and platelet/neutrophil ratio ( PNR ) were lower than those in the group without myocardial damage ( P < 05 ) ; there was no significant difference in general data such as gender , duration of fever , length of hospital stay , the incidence of severe pneumonia between the two groups ( P > 05 ) ; multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that median age , NLR level and extrapulmonary manifestations ( except myocardial damage ) were the main factors affecting myocardial damage in children with MPP ( P < 05 ) ; considering the interaction between NLR and PNR . We also performed ROC curve analysis for PNR . Among the univariate factors , PNR had the highest predictive value , and the specificity was as high as 9% . The combined area under the curve of the four indicators was 747 , higher than that of the univariate factor ( P < 001 ) , with a predictive sensitivity of 9% and a specificity of 9% . CONCLUSION : Children with MPP younger than 79 years have extrapulmonary manifestations ( acute sinusitis , acute otitis media , etc . ) , NLR > 41 , and PNR < 74 in blood routine are more likely to develop myocardial damage . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : Cardamine hupingshanensis is a plant known for its unique selenium tolerance , making it a key model for selenium metabolism research . Adenosine phosphosulfate kinase ( APK ) and adenosine phosphosulfate reductase ( APR ) are widely distributed in plants and play a crucial role in selenium metabolism . While genome-wide analyses of the APK and APR families have been conducted across various plant species , a systematic identification and analysis of these gene families in Cardamine hupingshanensis is still lacking . RESULTS : There are 7 ChAPK and 5 ChAPR genes identified from the genome of C . hupingshanensis , which can be classified into 4 subfamilies for ChAPK and 3 subfamilies for ChAPR , respectively . All these members share similar conserved motifs and gene structures . Phylogenetic and promoter analyses suggest they are involved in environmental responses , phytohormone regulation , and light signalling . Molecular docking analysis indicated that ChAPK enzymes have a higher affinity for adenosine phosphoselenate ( APSe ) compared to ChAPR . In 3D interaction force analysis , residues such as His , Asp and Arg were found to interact with the substrate APSe in ChAPK . For ChAPR , residues such as Gly , Arg and Leu were primarily involved in the catalytic site . Leaf cells of C . hupingshanensis exhibited a reduced state under 1 microg Se L ( - 1 ) selenite concentration , but showed an oxidative state at 100 microg Se L ( - 1 ) , as indicated by antioxidant enzyme activities and metabolite assays . The gene expression level of ChAPK2-1 and ChAPR2 increased by 2- and 1-folds , respectively , in the reduced state of plant cells , with smaller increases in the oxidative state , ChAPK2-1 increased by only 5-fold and ChAPR2 by 2-fold . CONCLUSIONS : All members of ChAPK and ChAPR families have a strong affinity for APSe and are regulated by the redox state . However , only three members of ChAPK ( ChAPK1-1 , ChAPK1-2 , and ChAPK4-2 ) are regulated by the redox state , and these are located in the chloroplast . Furthermore , low concentrations of selenium in the nutrient solution can promote antioxidant activity in the leaves of C . hupingshanensis seedlings , whereas high concentrations of selenium exhibit the opposite effect , as confirmed by the results of oxidative metabolite and antioxidant enzyme assays .
Parkinson ' s Disease ( PD ) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the depletion of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra , leading to hallmark motor symptoms such as bradykinesia , tremor , and rigidity . While the focus of PD has been on motor changes , dermatological changes are also commonly seen and may even precede the neurological symptoms . Individuals with PD may exhibit impaired wound healing , potentially due to dysregulated mechanisms involving epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) and N-methyl-D-aspartate ( NMDA ) in keratinocytes . This paper hypothesizes that the potential for impaired wound healing in PD patients is linked to reduced EGFR activity and altered NMDAR subunit expression in keratinocytes , in contrast to the upregulated wound healing seen in conditions like psoriasis , which demonstrates elevated EGFR and changes in NMDAR subunit activity . Furthermore , a potential co-interaction between EGF and NMDA in keratinocytes may further contribute to impaired wound healing . Investigating these signaling mechanisms can improve understanding and management of associated dermatological symptoms . We propose additional studies to quantify differences in rates of wound healing between PD patients and age-matched controls in effort to explore therapeutic targets for enhancing wounding healing in the context of PD .
Psoriasis is a significant global health challenge due to limited treatment efficacy . Paris saponin VII ( PSVII ) shows anti-inflammatory and anti-proliferative potential but its role in psoriasis is unclear . In this study , PSVII was identified from a library of natural compounds as a therapeutic candidate for psoriasis . In a murine model , PSVII reduced skin lesion severity , epidermal thickness , and inflammatory factor expression , preliminaryly indicating its anti-inflammatory properties . In vitro , PSVII inhibited HaCaT cell hyperproliferation , regulated the cell cycle , induced apoptosis , and modulated reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Bioinformatics analyses suggested that signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) , cysteine aspartate specific protease 1 ( Caspase-1 ) , and the process of pyroptosis are likely targets and mechanisms of PSVII action . PSVII could reduce cell mortality in psoriatic cells and lowered expression levels of NLR Family Pyrin Domain Containing 3 ( NLRP3 ) , Caspase-1 , Gasdermin D ( GSDMD ) , Interleukins ( IL ) -18 , and IL-1beta , underscoring its potential role in modulating pyroptosis within these cells . Mechanistically , PSVII may suppress the STAT3/nuclear factor kappa B ( NFkappaB ) signaling pathway . Consequently , PSVII plays a significant role in psoriasis management . PSVII could modulate pyroptotic cell death in psoriatic cells by targeting the STAT3/NFkappaB signaling cascade , leading to anti-inflammatory and anti-proliferative effects , and thereby ameliorating psoriasis symptoms .
BACKGROUND : Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a prevalent and highly malignant neoplasm on a global scale , ranking as the second most widespread cause of cancer-associated death . Long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) control tumorigenic processes in CRC by modulating inflammatory signals . However , the precise mechanisms remain unknown . METHODS : LncRNAs regulated by thioredoxin-1 ( Trx-1 ) and interleukin ( IL ) -6 were identified by RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) . The effect of MIR3142HG on CRC growth , migration , and invasion was assessed through methods of cell counting kit-8 ( CCK-8 ) , colony formation assay , Transwell assay , and animal experimentation , respectively . The regulation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) on the MIR3142HG promoter was verified using chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) and dual-luciferase reporter assays . The interaction of MIR3142HG with Trx-1 and STAT3 proteins was validated with RNA-binding protein immunoprecipitation ( RIP ) and RNA-pulldown experiments . Bioinformatics analysis and tissue microarray were utilized for evaluating the clinical value of MIR3142HG in CRC . RESULTS : We identified a lncRNA , MIR3142HG , regulated by Trx-1 knockdown and IL-6 treatment . Overexpression of MIR3142HG enhanced CRC cell proliferation , migration , and invasion , while its knockdown impaired these processes . STAT3 bound to the MIR3142HG promoter and activated its transcription . Upregulated MIR3142HG acted as a scaffold for the Trx-1/STAT3 complex to inhibit the degradation of Trx-1 and phosphorylated STAT3 ( p-STAT3 ) . In situ hybridization ( ISH ) results of CRC tissues indicated that MIR3142HG expression was significantly elevated during the early stages of CRC . Moreover , consistent with the Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) dataset , high MIR3142HG expression predicted better survival . CONCLUSIONS : Our study identified a novel lncRNA MIR3142HG , which interacts with STAT3 and Trx-1 to promote CRC progression , providing a possible diagnostic target for CRC .
The phosphate fertilizer industry ( PFI ) in M ' dhilla-Gafsa , Tunisia , discharges untreated effluents , creating environmental concerns due to unknown composition and toxic effects , leading to potential ecological and human health risks . This study characterized wastewater from three sampling points ( SP1 , SP2 , SP3 ) , and revealed their high acidity pH ( 2-3 ) and salinity ( 5-23 g/L ) . BOD/COD ratios indicated the high recalcitrance ( 01-1 ) of the effluents , reflecting their low biodegradability and persistence in the environment . Excessive levels of phosphorus ( 206-2094 mg/L ) , fluoride ( 154-1071 mg/L ) , and sulfates ( 5-9266 mg/L ) were detected by ionic chromatography . ICP-MS analysis highlighted for the first time the potentially toxic elements ( PTEs ) content in Tunisian PFI effluent , such us Cd ( 31-44 mg/L ) , Al ( 1-8 mg/L ) , Mn ( 9-5 mg/L ) , B ( 9-2 mg/L ) , Fe ( 7-7 mg/L ) , Ni ( 37-48 mg/L ) , and Cr ( 1-12 mg/L ) . These levels exceeded the permissible national and international limits for industrial discharges , as well as those of the World Health Organization ( WHO ) for drinking water , indicating serious potential environmental risks . Moreover , phytotoxicity tests on Medicago sativa , Pisum sativum , and Zea mays showed decreased amylolytic and proteolytic activities during germination . Blood toxicity assays indicated significant hemolytic effects . Indeed , 50% of SP1 , SP2 , and SP3 wastewaters caused hemolysis percentages equal to 04% , 57% , and 77% , respectively , implying therefore an acute toxicity of the effluents . Additionally , HEK-293 cells mortality was higher after exposure to effluents , with IC of 06% , 23% , and 68% for SP1 , SP2 , and SP3 , respectively . These findings emphasized the potential risks posed by PFI effluents to the surrounding ecosystem and the agricultural sector , leading to the contamination of the food chain . This alarming threat imposes stricter wastewater treatment measures and regulatory enforcement in the PFI sector .
Foam cell formation caused by cholesterol accumulation in macrophages is an early warning of atherosclerosis . Therefore , in situ and accurate determination of intracellular and extracellular cholesterol in macrophages is of great significance for the early diagnosis of atherosclerosis and the evaluation of its therapeutic effect . Herein , a surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy ( SERS ) and colorimetric dual-response plasmonic nano-sensing system was established based on a double-enzyme cascade catalytic reaction to accurately monitor the changes in cholesterol levels during the occurrence and development of atherosclerosis . Cholesterol oxidase modified on gold nanoparticles can catalyze the oxidation of cholesterol to hydrogen peroxide , which oxidizes 3 , 3 , 5 , 5-tetramethylbenzidine ( TMB ) to oxidation state TMB ( oxTMB ) under the catalysis of horseradish peroxidase ( HRP ) . The oxTMB showed a very strong SERS signal under the effect of plasmonic enhancement of gold nanoparticles , and the solution of oxTMB is bright blue compared to colorless TMB . Therefore , the dual-response sensing of cholesterol was realized by monitoring SERS and UV absorption signals of the final product oxTMB . Our results suggest that the free cholesterol in macrophages increases after the treatment of avasimibe , which ultimately leads to apoptosis of macrophages . Another drug , high-density lipoprotein , promoted the efflux of intracellular cholesterol and inhibited the foaming of macrophages , thus delaying the development of atherosclerosis . The colorimetric and SERS double-response plasmonic nanosensor realized highly sensitive , specific , and accurate monitoring of intracellular and extracellular cholesterol levels during drug treatment of atherosclerosis . It is expected to provide an effective tool and methodological reference for the prevention and diagnosis of atherosclerosis and a series of cardiovascular diseases related to cholesterol .
OBJECTIVE : To explore the role of genes related to fatty acid metabolism in lung adenocarcinoma classification and prognosis . METHODS : Transcriptome and clinical data from the TCGA database and GEO database were collected , the expression of prognostic fatty acid metabolism-related genes in LUAD patients was analyzed , and key genes related to both fatty acid metabolism and subtype were identified . These key genes were further filtered via the LASSO regression method , and the retained genes were used to construct a risk-scoring model . The biological function of RPS4Y1 was verified by cell viability , colony formation , migration , and flow cytometry assays . Finally , immune infiltration and drug sensitivity were analyzed in the high- and low-risk groups . RESULTS : 31 key FAMGs associated with prognosis were identified in LUAD patients . LUAD cases were divided into 3 subtypes on the basis of the expression of these genes . The DEGs between the different subtypes were associated mainly with amino acid metabolic pathways . In addition , among the 46 DEGs between subtypes , 5 key FAMGs ( SCGB3 A2 , PGC , ADH7 , RPS4Y1 , and KRT6 A ) were identified as the best prognostic markers via LASSO regression to establish a risk scoring model . Patients with low risk scores had a better prognosis and a greater degree of immune cell infiltration than those with high risk scores . RPS4Y1 is highly expressed in LUAD , and its knockdown significantly inhibits the growth of tumor cells . Moreover , we also analyzed drugs likely to be effective for the high- and low-risk groups . CONCLUSION : FAMGs play important roles in LUAD , and the key genes identified may be new targets for LUAD treatment .
PURPOSE : Targeted radionuclide therapy against cancer stem cell-specific markers , such as CD133 , constitutes a promising strategy to eliminate resilient cancer stem cells for improved outcomes in refractory tumors . Here , we report the synthesis and evaluation of [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 , a CD133-targeted radioimmunotherapy . PROCEDURES : A fully human , anti-CD133 antibody ( RW03 ) was conjugated with DOTA-NHS and radiolabeled with lutetium-177 to yield [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW Radioligand binding assays on [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 were performed using CD133 expressing HT-29 cells to determine binding affinity and immunoreactive fraction . Immunodeficient mice ( n = 15 ) bearing HT-29 tumors were divided into 4 cohorts to establish the biodistribution of [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 at 24 , 48 , and 96 h post-injection ( n = 5 per cohort ) . Additional biodistribution and SPECT imaging studies were performed to establish tumor specificity and dose-dependent tumor uptake . In a dose-escalation therapy study , HT-29 tumor bearing mice ( n = 20 ) were treated with either 0 +/- 1 , 6 +/- 1 , or 1 +/- 2 MBq of [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 or a vehicle control ( n = 5 mice per cohort ) . Tumors from the therapy study were processed ex vivo for immunohistochemical and histopathological analysis . RESULTS : Radioimmunoconjugate [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 ( 4 +/- 1 DOTA per antibody ) was isolated in 50 +/- 10% radiochemical yield , 17-28 GBq/micromol molar activity , and in > 98% radiochemical purity . In vitro , the radiolabeled antibody exhibited excellent binding affinity ( 30 +/- 03 nM ) and > 75% immunoreactivity . The biodistribution of [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 revealed notable tumor uptake ( 65 +/- 5%ID/g , 96 h post-injection ) and a favorable tumor-to-blood ratio ( 5 : 1 , 96 h post-injection ) . In vivo antigen specificity was confirmed by a significant reduction ( 75% ) in tumor uptake when [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 was co-administered with a 200-fold molar excess of unlabeled RW The radioimmunoconjugate exhibited promising therapeutic efficacy in the treatment of CD133 expressing colorectal xenograft mouse model , with dose-dependent reductions in tumor growth rate and increased survival time . Histopathological and immunohistochemical analyses revealed elevated cell proliferation and extensive liquefactive necrosis at late stages into treatment , which provides an opportunity for multidosing and combination treatment strategies . CONCLUSIONS : These findings underscore the potential of [Lu]Lu-DOTA-RW03 as an effective therapy through targeting CD133 expressing cancer cells .
Coral reefs are threatened by recurrent mortality incidents in their native habitats brought on by natural and anthropogenic stressors . Elevated temperature has been indicated as a major causing factor . Although ongoing research is focused on corals , sponges are an important benthic organism on coral reefs and are often overlooked . An accurate and standardized method is needed to determine the environmental limits and thresholds of sponges commonly found on coral reefs . We established an in vitro sponge cell model and evaluated the effect of elevated temperatures on primary cell cultures of five common Florida reef sponges-Agelas clathrodes , Aplysina fulva , Cliona varians , Geodia neptuni , and Xestospongia muta . Analysis of the results revealed that the impact of increased temperatures had no significant effect at the cellular level , but there are changes at the molecular level . Shifts in the sponges ' transcriptomic profiles induced by increased temperatures , trigger processes related to signal transduction , apoptosis , and cell repair pathways . Further elevation of temperature corresponding to local extremes activated the immune response and programmed cell death . The results of the present study are based on both cellular and molecular data obtained from the in vitro cell model which highlight the minimal response of all five species to thermal stress , providing an insight into the mechanisms involved in the adaptive process . Furthermore , they suggest a resilience of these sponges to the current thermal extremes , but a combination of factors could still lead to a loss of sponges on reefs . This study forms the basis for use of in vitro sponge cell models to evaluate other environmental parameters and stressors on additional sponge species .
PURPOSE : Cell-free mitochondrial DNA ( cf-mtDNA ) has emerged as a promising non-invasive method to predict embryo implantation potential . This study presents the first sequencing of cf-mtDNA in follicular fluid , aiming to explore the impact of ovarian stimulation treatment on the accumulation of mtDNA mutations and assess their implications for IVF outcomes . METHODS : We selected 24 women aged 27 to 35 from the Assisted Reproduction Unit based on inclusion criteria requiring them to be undergoing their first IVF cycle without known infertility issues . For each participant , blood samples were collected prior to ovarian stimulation , and follicular fluid samples were obtained at the time of oocyte retrieval . Long-PCR amplification and next-generation sequencing were used to identify mtDNA mutations . RESULTS : Ovarian stimulation-induced mtDNA mutations in follicular fluid were identified primarily in the D-loop region of the mitochondrial genome . These mutations were correlated with low oocyte counts and poor embryo quality , ultimately reducing IVF success rates . The accumulation of these mutations followed a time-dependent pattern , with longer stimulation durations resulting in higher mutation rates and lower pregnancy outcomes . Prolonged stimulations may exacerbate oxidative stress , negatively impacting oocyte quality . CONCLUSIONS : By introducing the first sequencing of follicular fluid cf-mtDNA , this study establishes a direct link between ovarian stimulation-induced mtDNA mutations and reduced IVF efficacy , highlighting them as non-invasive biomarkers for predicting IVF outcomes . Future research may focus on optimizing stimulation protocols or incorporating antioxidants to minimize mtDNA mutations , improving oocyte quality and overall IVF success rates for patients .
PURPOSE : To evaluate the value of mtDNA copy number measurement in spent culture medium of blastocysts for predicting the chance of implantation following single blastocyst transfer ( SBT ) . METHODS : Copy numbers of mtDNA and genomic DNA ( gDNA ) were determined using multiplex PCR and NGS and modeled to predict implantation following SBT using a generalized linear model ( GLM ) , generalized additive model ( GAM ) , and extreme gradient boosting ( XGBoost ) . The predictive power of the models was demonstrated and compared with the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC-ROC ) . RESULTS : Neither the mtDNA copy number nor the mtDNA/gDNA provided meaningful discriminatory power for prediction in GLM and GAM models . However , higher gDNA quartiles were associated with a negative correlation with pregnancy ( OR 92 , 95% CI 85 , 1 ) and an interaction with mtDNA , suggesting that gDNA should not be used to normalize mtDNA copy number . An XGBoost model , which considered both mtDNA and gDNA values , demonstrated an AUC of 837 ( 95% CI 800 , 874 ) . CONCLUSIONS : The mtDNA copy number in spent medium alone may not be a reliable predictor of pregnancy , and dividing mtDNA by gDNA could distort the outcome . Alternatively , a model that makes full use of the interaction of the values may improve the prediction power .
We demonstrate non-immunogenic circRNA as a tool for targeted gene regulation in plants , where it acts in an isoform- and sequence-specific manner , enabling future agronomic applications . Circular RNAs ( circRNAs ) are single-stranded RNA molecules characterized by their covalently closed structure and are emerging as key regulators of cellular processes in mammals , including gene expression , protein function and immune responses . Recent evidence suggests that circRNAs also play significant roles in plants , influencing development , nutrition , biotic stress resistance , and abiotic stress tolerance . However , the potential of circRNAs to modulate target protein abundance in plants remains largely unexplored . In this study , we investigated the potential of designer circRNAs to modulate target protein abundance in plants using Arabidopsis protoplasts as a model system . We show that PEG-mediated transfection with a 50-nt circRNA ( GFP ) containing a 30-nt GFP-antisense sequence results in a dose- and sequence-dependent reduction of GFP reporter target protein abundance . Notably , a single-stranded open isoform of circRNA ( GFP ) had little effect on protein abundance , indicating the importance of the closed circular structure . Additionally , circRNA ( GFP ) also reduced GFP abundance in Arabidopsis mutants defective in RNA interference ( RNAi ) , suggesting that circRNA activity is independent of the RNAi pathway . We also show that circRNA , unlike dsRNA , does not induce pattern-triggered immunity ( PTI ) in plants . Findings of this proof-of-principle study together are crucial first steps in understanding the potential of circRNAs as versatile tools for modulating gene expression and offer exciting prospects for their application in agronomy , particularly for enhancing crop traits through metabolic pathway manipulation .
Although alopecia areata ( AA ) is recognized as a hair loss disorder stemming from the dysregulation of cutaneous immune homeostasis , its precise pathogenesis still remains elusive . The collapse of hair follicle ( HF ) immune privilege ( IP ) , leading to immune cell-mediated attack on the hair follicle , is currently the widely accepted fundamental mechanism of AA . Among the immune cells studied in this context , CD8 ( + ) T cells and regulatory T ( Treg ) cells are relatively well-researched , but the direct involvement of macrophages in the disease process has been less frequently demonstrated . In this review , we summarize various previous studies on macrophages and hypothesize the immune mechanisms by which macrophages contribute to the pathogenesis of AA . This exploration provides new insights for future research and potential clinical treatments .
INTRODUCTION : Solitary fibrous tumor is a rare spindle cell tumor that may occur in various parts of the body . No documented case of solitary fibrous tumor has been reported in pterygopalatine fossa . CASE REPORT : A 25-year-old male complained of right facial numbness for 20 days . Computed tomography of the paranasal sinuses demonstrated a well-circumscribed lesion centered in the right pterygopalatine fossa . On magnetic resonance imaging the lesion was homogenously isointense to muscle on T1 weighted imaging ( T1WI ) and slightly hyperintense to muscle on T2 weighted ( T2WI ) . The intro-operative frozen pathology reveals a benign spindle cell tumor . The tumor was removed successfully via transnasal combined with Caldwell-Luc approach without complications . However , the final pathology combined with immunohistochemistry confirmed the diagnosis of solitary fibrous tumor . No further radiotherapy is performed post-operation . After half a year follow up , there is no recurrence . CONCLUSION : For the tumor in the pterygopalatine fossa , the possibility of solitary fibrous tumor should be considered and radical endoscopic resection should be the preferred treatment approach .
Melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) display exceptionally high mutational burdens . Hence , immune targeting in these cancers has primarily focused on tumor antigens ( TAs ) predicted to derive from nonsynonymous mutations . Using comprehensive proteogenomic analyses , we identified 589 TAs in cutaneous melanoma ( n = 505 ) and NSCLC ( n = 90 ) . Of these , only 1% were derived from mutated sequences , which was explained by a low RNA expression of most nonsynonymous mutations and their localization outside genomic regions proficient for major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class I-associated peptide generation . By contrast , 99% of TAs originated from unmutated genomic sequences specific to cancer ( aberrantly expressed tumor-specific antigens ( aeTSAs ) , n = 220 ) , overexpressed in cancer ( tumor-associated antigens ( TAAs ) , n = 165 ) or specific to the cell lineage of origin ( lineage-specific antigens ( LSAs ) , n = 198 ) . Expression of aeTSAs was epigenetically regulated , and most were encoded by noncanonical genomic sequences . aeTSAs were shared among tumor samples , were immunogenic and could contribute to the response to immune checkpoint blockade observed in previous studies , supporting their immune targeting across cancers .
The comprehensive in vitro proarrhythmia assay ( CiPA ) has paved the way for integrating in silico trials into drug evaluation processes . In alignment , the International Council for Harmonization ( ICH ) has initiated efforts to update the ICH S7B and E14 guidelines through a structured Questions and Answers ( Q&A ) format . A significant challenge in this paradigm is ensuring consistent application and evaluation of diverse proarrhythmia risk prediction models across experimental systems . This study utilized the CiPAORdv0 model to predict cardiac toxicity , leveraging in vitro data from 28 drugs for training and validation . A modified O ' Hara-Rudy model simulated a virtual population of human ventricular cell models . Seven critical features ( qNet , APD50 , APD90 , Camax , Carest , CaTD50 , CaTD90 ) were extracted as inputs for analysis . CiPAORdv0 demonstrated robust performance , achieving predictive accuracies with an area under the curve ( AUC ) of 0 for high risk and 95 for low-risk categories . The calibration process was enhanced using normalized Euclidean distances ( R1 and R2 ) , effectively distinguishing risk categories . Sensitivity analysis identified key drugs , ensuring a strong calibration drug set to anchor model predictions . The proposed ANN model validated the CiPAORdv0 framework as an effective TdP-risk prediction system , ensuring robust and lab-specific validation . This study presents a novel algorithm leveraging artificial neural networks to implement validated cardiac safety models , addressing a critical need for standardized proarrhythmia risk assessment in drug development .
BACKGROUND : Lung cancer remains a primary contributor to cancer-related mortality globally . Red blood cell distribution width ( RDW ) , a straightforward and cost-effective indicator , measures the variability in red blood cell size and is conventionally employed in hematological assessments for anemia differentiation . Nonetheless , limited research has explored the causal link between RDW levels and lung cancer incidence . METHODS : Initially , Mendelian randomization ( MR ) was employed to explore the underlying causal connection between RDW and lung cancer . To ensure the robustness of the MR findings , sensitivity analyses were conducted . Following this , the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) database was utilized to further substantiate the influence of RDW on the prognosis of lung cancer . RESULTS : The MR analysis revealed a significant association between RDW and lung cancer risk in the European population ( OR IVW 11 , 95% CI 03-20 , p = 006 ; OR Weighted-median 16 , 95% CI 03-31 , p = 013 ; OR MR-Egger 14 , 95% CI 00-30 , p = 059 ) . Furthermore , findings from the NHANES database suggested that lower RDW values are associated with improved prognosis in lung cancer patients ( HR 2 , 95% CI 07-74 , p < 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides further evidence for the relationship between RDW levels and lung cancer , highlighting the potential significance of RDW as a biomarker for predicting lung cancer risk and prognosis .
BACKGROUND : The role of RAP1GAP in tumor progression has garnered increasing attention ; however , its prognostic value and immunological influence across various cancers remain uncertain . Our study presents a pan-cancer analysis to investigate its involvement in oncogenesis and immune regulation . METHODS : Public databases were utilized to assess RAP1GAP expression across cancers . Cox regression analysis evaluated its prognostic value , while Pearson correlation examined associations with genomic heterogeneity , tumor stemness , immune cell infiltration , and immune checkpoints . Immunohistochemical staining of bladder cancer and adjacent tissues assessed RAP1GAP expression and clinical correlations . RESULTS : RAP1GAP expression is differentially expressed in a variety of tumor types and predicts a better or worse prognosis for tumor patients . It was strongly linked to genomic heterogeneity and tumor stemness in multiple cancers . Immunohistochemistry showed increased RAP1GAP expression in bladder cancer . Immune cell analysis revealed high RAP1GAP expression was associated with greater infiltration of plasma cells , naive CD4 ( + ) T cells , Tregs , and eosinophils , while low expression correlated with increased CD8 ( + ) T cells , activated memory CD4 ( + ) T cells , and M1 macrophages . CONCLUSION : RAP1GAP is a potential prognostic biomarker and immune regulator , with promising implications as an immunotherapeutic target for bladder cancer .
BACKGROUND : Evidence from observational studies suggests an association between free cholesterol and gastric cancer . Immune cells play a crucial role in the tumor microenvironment of gastric cancer , and free cholesterol can influence immune cells in various ways , thereby impacting gastric cancer . The mechanisms by which free cholesterol regulates and activates the immune response to exert antitumor effects , as well as the causal relationship between free cholesterol and gastric cancer , remain unclear . METHODS : We employed a two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) approach to investigate the causal relationship between 233 metabolites and gastric cancer . Additionally , we validated our findings using data from GWAS databases of similar traits . Using publicly available genetic data , we analyzed the causal relationship between 731 types of immune cells and gastric cancer . Furthermore , we explored the mediating role of regulatory T cells in the causal relationship between free cholesterol and gastric cancer through multivariable Mendelian randomization . Finally , we validated our results using data from the TCGA database and single-cell sequencing data . FINDINGS : We found a causal relationship between free cholesterol levels and gastric cancer ( odds ratio [OR] = 89 , confidence interval [CI] = 81-98 , P < 05 ) . We also observed a causal relationship between free cholesterol levels and regulatory T cells ( odds ratio [OR] = 86 , confidence interval [CI] = 75-98 , P < 05 ) , and between regulatory T cells and gastric cancer ( odds ratio [OR] = 04 , confidence interval [CI] = 01-07 , P < 05 ) . Additionally , our multivariable Mendelian randomization analysis indicated that regulatory T cells mediate the causal relationship between free cholesterol levels and gastric cancer . Furthermore , through single-cell sequencing analysis and data analysis from the TCGA database , we found that the expression of the free cholesterol uptake protein LDLR is negatively correlated with Treg infiltration , which further influences the occurrence and development of gastric cancer . INTERPRETATION : Our analysis indicates a causal relationship between free cholesterol levels and gastric cancer , with regulatory T cells acting as mediators . Modulating free cholesterol levels to influence regulatory T cells may offer new insights and prospects for the prevention and treatment of gastric cancer .
Ethanol consumption is widely recognized for its detrimental effects on mental health , particularly its association with depressive disorders . This narrative review aims to explore the intricate molecular mechanisms underlying ethanol-induced depression , synthesizing findings from preclinical and clinical studies . We begin by providing an overview of the relationship between chronic ethanol consumption and depression , highlighting compelling evidence from diverse populations . Subsequently , we delve into insights from animal models that elucidate the pathophysiological changes triggered by prolonged ethanol exposure . Key mechanisms identified include oxidative stress , which contributes to cellular damage ; neuroinflammation , characterized by the activation of glial cells and altered cytokine profiles ; and disruptions in neurotrophic factors that impair neuronal growth and survival . Furthermore , we discuss the induction of apoptosis in neural cells and the significant impact of ethanol on neurotransmitter receptor remodeling and regulation , leading to altered synaptic transmission . While substantial progress has been made in understanding these mechanisms , we also acknowledge the limitations of current research methodologies and call for further investigations to translate these findings into effective therapeutic strategies for individuals affected by ethanol-induced depression . This review ultimately underscores the need for a comprehensive understanding of the molecular underpinnings of ethanol ' s impact on mood disorders , paving the way for improved interventions and preventative measures .
Polysaccharides derived from Pleurotus eryngii possess various bioactive properties , including antioxidant , antidiabetic , anti-inflammatory , and immunomodulatory effects . In this study , polysaccharides were extracted from P . eryngii fruiting bodies and exposed to gamma irradiation at doses of 50 and 100 kGy , with a dose rate of 5 kGy/h . The surface morphology of the polysaccharide irradiated at 100 kGy exhibited numerous pores and a smaller flake structure compared to those irradiated at 50 kGy and the non-irradiated sample . H and C NMR spectra of all samples indicated that both irradiated and non-irradiated polysaccharides exhibited alpha- and beta-configurations , with signals corresponding to C1-C5 clearly observed . HPLC analysis of the polysaccharides revealed that glucose ( 23% ) , galactose ( 96% ) , glucuronic acid ( 38% ) , ribose ( 94% ) , rhamnose ( 35% ) , and mannose ( 87% ) are the main components . All polysaccharides demonstrated antioxidant activity , which increased with concentration . Both non-irradiated and irradiated polysaccharides exhibited antidiabetic effects , significantly reducing blood glucose levels , and restoring insulin level with superiority of irradiated polysaccharides . Additionally , they significantly elevated body weight , slightly reduced MDA levels , and markedly enhanced catalase activity in treated rats compared to diabetic controls . The antidiabetic effects of the polysaccharides were further confirmed by histopathological examination of the pancreas and liver sections from polysaccharide-treated diabetic rats . This suggests that irradiation , by reducing the molecular weight of polysaccharides , enhances their bioavailability and efficacy in modulating glucose metabolism .
Aging is the major risk factor for neurodegeneration and is associated with structural and functional alterations in white matter . Myelin is particularly vulnerable to aging , resulting in white matter-associated microglia activation . Here we used pharmacological and genetic approaches to investigate microglial functions related to aging-associated changes in myelinated axons of mice . Our results reveal that maladaptive microglia activation promotes the accumulation of harmful CD8 ( + ) T cells , leading to the degeneration of myelinated axons and subsequent impairment of brain function and behavior . We characterize glial heterogeneity and aging-related changes in white matter by single-cell and spatial transcriptomics and reveal elaborate glial-immune interactions . Mechanistically , we show that the CXCL10-CXCR3 axis is crucial for the recruitment and retention of CD8 ( + ) T cells in aged white matter , where they exert pathogenic effects . Our results indicate that myelin-related microglia dysfunction promotes adaptive immune reactions in aging and identify putative targets to mitigate their detrimental impact .
Single-cell spatial transcriptomics promises a highly detailed view of a cell ' s transcriptional state and microenvironment , yet inaccurate cell segmentation can render these data murky by misattributing large numbers of transcripts to nearby cells or conjuring nonexistent cells . We adopt methods from ab initio cell simulation , in a method called Proseg ( probabilistic segmentation ) , to rapidly infer morphologically plausible cell boundaries . Benchmarking applied to datasets generated by three commercial platforms shows superior performance and computational efficiency of Proseg when compared to existing methods . We show that improved accuracy in cell segmentation aids greatly in detection of difficult-to-segment tumor-infiltrating immune cells such as neutrophils and T cells . Last , through improvements in our ability to delineate subsets of tumor-infiltrating T cells , we show that CXCL13-expressing CD8 ( + ) T cells tend to be more closely associated with tumor cells than their CXCL13-negative counterparts in data generated from samples from patients with renal cell carcinoma .
PvMLP19 overexpression in Arabidopsis enhances proline accumulation , mitigates oxidative stress , improves water retention , delays germination , and stimulates root growth under drought and salt stress conditions . Climate change has exacerbated the frequency and severity of drought and salinity stress , posing significant risks to agricultural productivity and food security . As sessile organisms , plants have evolved regulatory mechanisms to adapt to these challenges . Common bean ( Phaseolus vulgaris L . ) , an essential legume crop valued for its high nutritional value , is increasingly impacted by climate change-induced stressors . The PR10 protein family has been recognized as a potential contributor to enhancing plant resilience to abiotic and biotic stresses . This family , also known as Bet v1 , is highly conserved and consists of diverse subfamilies , including major latex proteins ( MLPs ) , which may contribute to stress tolerance through ligand-binding and regulation of stress-related pathways . This study aimed to investigate the functional role of PvMLP19 in stress tolerance using both in silico and experimental approaches . RNA-seq analysis revealed tissue-specific expression patterns of PR10s , with PvMLP19 showing notable induction under abiotic stress . Functional validation in transgenic Arabidopsis suggested that overexpression of PvMLP19 may improve drought tolerance . Transgenic plants exhibited increased proline accumulation , reduced oxidative stress , and higher relative water content under both drought and salinity stress conditions . Furthermore , PvMLP19 overexpression was associated with delayed seed germination but promoted root development under osmotic and salinity stress . The increased stress tolerance was linked to the upregulation of stress-inducible genes , suggesting a potential regulatory role of PvMLP19 in modulating stress-response pathways . These findings position PvMLP19 as a potential candidate for genetic improvement in crops , offering a promising strategy to mitigate the impacts of climate change and ensure sustainable agricultural productivity .
When two lymphomas occur concurrently or sequentially in a patient , it is a major question whether they derive from the same lymphocyte or hematopoietic precursor cell or developed independently . We studied four composite classic Hodgkin lymphomas ( HL ) and other mature B-cell lymphomas , and two composite mature B- and T-cell neoplasias by whole exome sequencing ( WES ) . Analysis of their IGV genes revealed that three composite B-cell lymphomas originated from common germinal center-experienced B cells . WES identified shared somatic mutations in the lymphomas of these clonally related composite lymphomas , indicating their derivation from a common , pre-malignant precursor . Most mutations were restricted to one or the other of these lymphomas , likely explaining how distinct lymphomas developed from a common ancestral B cell . In the two B-cell/T-cell lymphoma cases , and a composite clonally unrelated HL/chronic lymphocytic leukemia , the lymphoma partners did not share any somatic mutations . In three cases , we identified potentially oncogenic variants also in cells serving as constitutional controls . These variants may have contributed to development of a composite lymphoma/leukemia . We provide additional evidence of frequent clonal relation in composite lymphomas , highlight the multistep transformation process of related lymphomas with a likely pre-malignant intermediate common precursor , and support the importance of constitutional variants in lymphomagenesis .
Acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) is a common hematopoietic malignancy with high recurrence rates , and there is an urgent need for new therapeutic agents . T-cell immunoglobulin mucin-3 ( TIM-3 ) is expressed on the surface of both LSCs and blasts in most AML patients , but not in normal hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) . We have developed KK2845 , an antibody drug conjugate ( ADC ) that consists of an anti-TIM-3 fully human IgG1 antibody , a valine-alanine linker and a highly potent DNA cross-linking pyrrolobenzodiazepine ( PBD ) dimer SG KK2845 exhibited potent cytotoxicity against AML cells both in vitro and in vivo . The cytotoxicity against AML cells was almost comparable between KK2845 and CD33-ADC , an anti-CD33 antibody conjugated with PBD dimer that has shown high remission rates in clinical studies . In addition to the cytotoxicity depending on PBD dimer , KK2845 also showed potent antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) activity against AML cells . KK2845 showed less cytotoxicity against human normal bone marrow cells than CD33-ADC . The pharmacokinetics of KK2845 in cynomolgus monkey after intravenous infusion demonstrated a favorable profile . Taken together , these data suggest that KK2845 could be a novel ADC therapeutic in AML .
Metabolic rewiring is a hallmark of malignant transformation in leukemic cells and the potential offered by its therapeutic targeting has garnered significant attention . The development of clinically relevant metabolic targeted therapies in acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) has mostly focused on targeting mitochondrial energy production , but progress has been hampered by generalized toxicities . An alternative strategy is to shift the focus from targeting energy production to targeting more specialized metabolic functions , such as energy storage , the regulation of oxidative stress and availability of cofactors needed for the function of specific metabolic reactions . Lipid metabolism plays a role in many of these metabolic functions and its importance in AML maintenance and response to therapy is being increasingly recognized but needs to be adequately interpreted in the context of its interaction with the microenvironment , particularly the adipose niche . In this review , we provide an overview of our current understanding of AML cellular metabolic dependencies on fatty acid and lipid metabolism and discuss their relevance in the context of functional interactions with adipocytes . We highlight unresolved questions about how to best target lipid metabolism and suggest approaches needed to fully understand the interplay between malignant cells and their niche in the context of metabolic dependencies .
Sickle cell retinopathy ( SCR ) is an ocular manifestation of sickle cell disease ( SCD ) . In SCR abnormal sickling of erythrocytes is associated with sight-threatening complications such as neovascularisation , vitreous haemorrhage , maculopathy and retinal detachment . Optical coherence tomography angiography ( OCTA ) is a novel imaging modality enabling non-invasive assessment of retinal vasculature . This systematic review provides an up-to-date evaluation of the role of OCTA in SCR diagnosis and management . We searched MEDLINE/PubMed , Cumulated Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature ( CINAHL ) , SCOPUS and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials ( CENTRAL ) electronic databases . The methodological quality of included studies was evaluated according to the STrengthening the Reporting of OBservational studies in Epidemiology ( STROBE ) recommendations . 31 studies met the inclusion criteria , and 26 suitably complied with the STROBE recommendations . Participant characteristics , including haemoglobin genotype , Goldberg staging , and visual acuity , were reported in twenty-eight ( 93% ) , twenty-six ( 6% ) , and fifteen ( 50% ) studies , respectively . There was no consistent association between OCTA findings and haemoglobin genotype , Goldberg staging or visual acuity . Meta-analysis revealed that foveal avascular zone ( FAZ ) size and mean vessel density of the superficial and deep capillary plexi were significantly altered in patients with SCR compared to healthy controls . The mean vessel density of the superficial and deep capillary plexus was significantly lower in patients with SCR . OCTA can quantitatively detect retinal vascular remodelling in patients with SCR . Further research should focus on the clinical utility of OCTA for predicting SCR progression and its role in automating SCR staging using machine learning techniques .
Plant viral tropism refers to virus ability for infecting and replicating within specific cell types , tissues or hosts . Plant viral tropism is shaped by the absence of specific membrane-associated viral receptors and the supracellular nature of viral transport through plasmodesmata and vascular tissues . This review focuses on the molecular and cellular determinants of plant viral tropism , including modifications in plasmodesmal permeability , host-mediated RNA silencing , and tissue-specific viral protein localization . We discuss how certain viruses target reproductive organs , meristems , and seeds , overcoming antiviral barriers to establish persistent infections . Additionally , we explore the role of host factors in shaping viral distribution . Advances in super-resolution microscopy , single-cell transcriptomics , and proteomics have significantly expanded our ability to dissect virus-host interactions at the nanoscale , uncovering new mechanisms of viral accumulation . Understanding these processes is essential not only for improving crop resistance and designing integrated disease management strategies , but also for repurposing plant viruses as tools for targeted delivery and biotechnological applications .
The plasticity of living cell membranes relies on complex metabolic networks fueled by cellular energy . These metabolic processes exert direct control over membrane properties such as lipid composition and morphological plasticity , which are essential for cellular functions . Despite notable progress in the development of artificial systems mimicking natural membranes , the realization of synthetic membranes capable of sustaining metabolic cycles remains a challenge . Here we present an abiotic phospholipid metabolic network that generates and maintains dynamic artificial cell membranes . Chemical coupling agents drive the in situ synthesis of transiently stable non-canonical phospholipids , leading to the formation and maintenance of phospholipid membranes . We find that phospholipid metabolic cycles can drive lipid self-selection , favouring the enrichment of specific lipid species . Moreover , we demonstrate that controlling lipid metabolism can induce reversible membrane phase transitions , facilitating lipid mixing between distinct populations of artificial membranes . Our work demonstrates that a simple lipid metabolic network can drive dynamic behaviour in artificial membranes , offering insights into mechanisms for engineering functional synthetic compartments .
Solid polymer electrolytes ( SPEs ) have been regarded as one of the most encouraging choices for lithium-based cells of the future generation as they further boost battery energy density and do away with any potential safety risks associated with liquid organic electrolytes . Nevertheless , solid electrolytes ' restricted ion conductivity hinders their hands-on applications . In this work , lithium-ion conductor SPEs based on polymer/polyoxovanadates nanocomposites are fabricated by a facile cast solution method . Polyoxovanadate Li[VO ( CO ) ] ( LVC ) possesses a high diffusion coefficient which acts as lithium salt . The dual function role of polyoxovanadates in the diffusion of Li ( + ) cations and reducing the crystallinity of polymer leads to high ion conductivity of 1 x 10 ( -4 ) S cm ( -1 ) at room temperature . Moreover , compared to the routine CA-PEG1000-LiPF electrolyte , the SPE with LVC had a broader electrochemical voltage window of more than 5 V . The excellent performance as lithium salt and inorganic filler and its role in reducing the crystallinity of polymers and providing mobile cations in polymer matrix , and acceptable electrochemical properties , including considerable transference number ( t ( + ) ) 59 , good stability of electrode/electrolye interface after 100 h Li plating/stripping without short-circuiting , and good specific capacity ( 226 mAh g ( -1 ) of LiCoO/CA-PEG1000-LVC/Gr at 1 C ) suggest LVC as lithium salt and also as inorganic fillers for designing new SPEs with high performance for next-generation lithium-based batteries .
Enzyme activation by cellular metabolites plays a pivotal role in regulating metabolic processes . Nevertheless , our comprehension of such activation events on a global network scale remains incomplete . In this study , we conducted a comprehensive investigation into the optimization of cell-intrinsic activation interactions using Saccharomyces cerevisiae metabolic network as the basis of the analysis . To achieve this , we integrated a genome-scale metabolic model with cross-species enzyme kinetic data sourced from the BRENDA database , and to use this model as a basis to estimate the distribution of enzyme activators throughout the cellular network . Our findings indicate that the vast majority of biochemical pathways encompass enzyme activators , frequently originating from disparate pathways , thus revealing extensive regulatory crosstalk between metabolic pathways . Notably , activators have short pathway lengths , indicating they are activated quickly upon nutrient shifts , and in most instances , these activators target key enzymatic reactions to facilitate downstream metabolic processes . Interestingly , highly activated enzymes are substantially enriched with non-essential enzymes compared to their essential counterparts . This observation suggests that cells employ enzyme activators to finely regulate secondary metabolic pathways that are only required under specific conditions . Conversely , the activator metabolites themselves are more likely to be essential components , and their activation levels surpass those of non-essential activators . In summary , our study unveils the widespread importance of enzymatic activators and suggests that feed-forward activation of conditional metabolic pathways through essential metabolites mediates metabolic plasticity .
Periprosthetic joint infection ( PJI ) is a critical complication following arthroplasty , leading to increased prosthesis failure rates post-treatment . This study explores the role of PD-1/PD-L1 signaling in osteoclastogenesis associated with PJI . Peripheral blood , bone , and bone marrow of 65 patients ( 20 primary osteoarthritis , 21 PJI septic explantation , 24 PJI prosthesis reimplantation ) were analyzed for their bone microstructure and cell composition . Immunocytochemistry , RT-qPCR , flow cytometry , bone resorption assay , ELISA , and RNA sequencing were performed to investigate the effects of PD-1 stimulation and blockade on osteoclast formation . PD-1 positive monocytes and sPD-L1 levels were elevated in PJI . Stimulation with PD-L1 enhanced osteoclastogenesis , while PD-1 inhibitor nivolumab reversed these effects . Impact of PD-1 and nivolumab was significantly more pronounced in PJI compared to the control . Our study suggests PD-1/PD-L1 signaling plays a significant role in PJI-related osteoclastogenesis . These findings highlight the potential of PD-1 inhibitors as a novel approach to manage this challenging clinical condition .
Increasing evidence reveals that multiple or prolonged exposure to ketamine causes hippocampal damage and cognitive dysfunction . However , the critical mechanisms underlying ketamine-induced neurotoxicity in the developing brain remain elusive . The present study was designed to investigate the role of GPX4 in ketamine-induced pyroptosis and cognitive dysfunction in the developing rat hippocampus . To achieve this goal , we conducted Western blotting , ELISA tests , histopathological analysis , Morris water maze tests , cell viability assays , and biochemical analyses on PC12 cells , HAPI cells , and 7-day-old rats . Additionally , N-acetylcysteine ( NAC ) and RSL3 were administered prior to continuous ketamine exposure . Our findings indicate that GPX4 inhibition by RSL3 enhances lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial damage , activates NLRP3/caspase-1 axis-dependent pyroptosis , and exacerbates hippocampal damage and cognitive dysfunction following ketamine exposure , while NAC effectively mitigates the effects of RSL Collectively , our in vivo and in vitro results support the notion that GPX4 may serve as a negative regulator of pyroptosis in ketamine-induced hippocampal damage and cognitive dysfunction . Our study proposes a novel strategy for treating ketamine-induced neurotoxicity through upregulating GPX4 expression .
The modulation of microglial reactivity has emerged as a potential target for developing ischemic stroke therapies . Mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles ( MSC-EVs ) possess immunomodulatory properties that may influence microglial responses following ischemia . However , individual studies assessing this influence have provided limited results . Therefore , we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to investigate whether MSC-EVs treatment alters microglial responses in animal and cellular models of ischemic stroke . In accordance with the PRISMA 2020 statement , we searched PubMed , Web of Science , and EMBASE until October 2023 for studies assessing cellular and molecular parameters of microglial reactivity following MSC-EVs treatment in models of ischemic stroke . We estimated treatment effects using a random-effects meta-analysis of standardized mean differences and estimated heterogeneity via the I statistic . The risk of bias was assessed using the SYRCLE questionnaire . The search identified 297 studies , 27 of which met the inclusion criteria . In animal models , MSC-EVs reduced the number , surface area , and fluorescence intensity of Iba1 ( + ) cells , as well as the number of Iba1 ( + ) cells co-expressing the pro-inflammatory markers CD16 , CD32 , CD85 , and iNOS . Conversely , MSC-EVs increased the number of Iba1 ( + ) cells co-expressing the anti-inflammatory markers Arg-1 and CD In cellular models , we observed decreased concentrations of TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , and IL-6 in the culture medium . Our meta-analysis consolidates the immunomodulatory effects of MSC-EVs on microglial responses to ischemia , underscoring the potential of microglia-specific therapeutics in the development of MSC-EVs-based and regenerative treatments for ischemic stroke .
Several preclinical and clinical studies have shown that SARS-CoV-2 infection is associated with new-onset Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) . The overall goal of this study is to uncover how the COVID-19 severity gradient impacts the conventional pathological pathway of PD to inform the identification of at-risk patients and the development of personalized treatment strategies . Transcriptomics analysis of 43 PD pathogenic genes was conducted on nasopharyngeal swabs from 50 COVID-19 patients with varying severity including 17 outpatients , 16 non-ICU , and 17 ICU patients , compared to 13 SARS-CoV-2 negative individuals . The study shows that COVID-19 severity gradient differentially dysregulates PD pathological genes . Dysfunctional lysosomal and mitochondrial processes in outpatients and non-ICU COVID-19 patients was identified as the convergent network of COVID-19-PD interactions . These dysfunctions were later abrogated by the upregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system and autophagy-lysosome system in ICU COVID-19 patients . A potential synergistic co-expression and clustering of protein clearance pathway genes with other pathological genes was observed in ICU patients , indicating a possible overlap in biological pathways . Dysregulation of the PD pathopharmacogene , SLC6A3 was observed in ICU patients , suggesting potential COVID-19-gene-drug interactions . Nasopharyngeal swabs express major PD pathological genes as well as clinically relevant drug processing genes , which could advance studies on PD , including diagnosis , pathogenesis , and the development of disease-modifying treatments . Outpatients and non-ICU COVID-19 patients may face a higher risk of developing new-onset PD , whereas ICU COVID-19 patients may be more susceptible to COVID-19-gene-drug interactions .
Radiotherapy ( RT ) is a relevant treatment for head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) patients but radioresistance , which depends on DNA damage response ( DDR ) , restrains outcome . Therefore , manipulating DDR by small molecule inhibitors ( SMI ) is a promising treatment option . The main DNA double strand break ( DSB ) repair mechanisms in healthy mammalian cells are homologous recombination ( HR ) and non-homologous end joining ( NHEJ ) . It is known that HR is already often impaired in tumors because of cancerous transitions . Therefore , additionally inhibiting NHEJ is a possibility to specifically target tumor cells and spare healthy tissue , which has the alternative DSB repair mechanism available . We treated HNSCC and healthy fibroblast cell lines with 30 microM of the ligase IV inhibitor SCR130 and a single dose of 2 Gy ( Gy ) ionizing radiation ( IR ) to investigate the inhibitor ' s radiosensitizing effect . In short , the effect of SCR130 in combination with IR on cell death , clonogenicity , and DNA damage is limited and highly cell line specific . Nevertheless , SCR130 increases the number of cells in G0/G1 phase concomitant with gained p21 expression consistently . We suggest that SCR130 in combination with IR has anti-proliferative effects , but an escape of the cells by upregulation of ligase IV resulting from the treatment is possible .
T cells are central to adaptive immunity , with proper thymic development and egress critical for T cell homeostasis in peripheral tissues . The molecular mechanisms governing thymic egress remain poorly understood . Here , we identify Rho GTPase-activating protein 30 ( ARHGAP30 ) , predominantly expressed in lymphoid organs and previously uncharacterized in immunity , as a key regulator of thymocyte migration and egress . Loss of ARHGAP30 leads to impaired thymic development and severe T cell lymphopenia . Notably , Arhgap30-deficient mice exhibit a reduced number of immature single-positive ( SP ) thymocytes but a normal number of mature SP thymocytes , indicating a blockade in thymic egress . Mechanistically , ARHGAP30 deficiency lowers GTP-bound active RAC1 independent of its GAP activity , impairing actin polarization and thymocyte motility . ARHGAP30 selectively binds and stabilizes active RAC1 , preventing its proteasomal degradation via K48-linked ubiquitination . These findings establish ARHGAP30 as a critical checkpoint for thymic egress and underscore its essential role in maintaining peripheral T cell homeostasis .
NADH dehydrogenase [ubiquinone] iron-sulfur protein 3 ( NDUFS3 ) is the core subunit of the respiratory chain complex I ( CI ) . We found NDUFS3 were abnormally elevated in human melanoma and promoted melanoma proliferation . Furthermore , NDUFS3 could promote the oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) and the pentose phosphate pathway ( PPP ) , as well as attenuated glycolysis . As NDUFS3-mediated the metabolic changes of OXPHOS and glucose metabolism , melanoma cells produced more ATP , resulting in the inhibition of AMP kinase ( AMPK ) . AMPK induced phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetase1 ( PRPS1 ) phosphorylation , which resulted in suppressed PRPS1 activity . Briefly , the NDUFS3-AMPK-PRPS1 signaling axis coupled OXPHOS , glucose metabolism , and purine nucleotide biosynthesis to regulate melanoma proliferation . Our study highlighted an unrecognized role for NDUFS3 in melanoma , which might be used as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of this type of cancer . NDUFS3 regulating PRPS1 activity through AMPK to affect melanoma proliferation .
Androgen receptor variant 7 ( AR-V7 ) plays a critical role in castration-resistant prostate cancer ( CRPC ) progression even under androgen-deprivation conditions . Clinical and experimental studies have established that AR-V7 expression is a critical driver of CRPC progression and resistance to first-line anti-androgen therapy including enzalutamide . Understanding the mechanisms regulating AR-V7 generation and its contribution to drug resistance is critical for developing newer approaches to target CRPC . In this study , we have investigated the role of the RNA-binding protein YTHDC1 , a m6A reader , in regulating AR-V7 splicing . Our findings reveal that YTHDC1 is overexpressed in CRPC and modulating its expression directly affects AR-V7 levels , rendering the cells sensitive to enzalutamide treatment . Mechanistically , we demonstrate that YTHDC1 binds to the AR-V7 pre-mRNA and facilitates the recruitment of phosphorylated SRSF1 , a splice factor that promotes AR-V7 splicing . Additionally , we also demonstrate that it modulates the levels of CLK1 , a known SRSF1 kinase supporting its role in regulating AR-V7 splicing . Furthermore , our experiments also reveal that YTHDC1 regulates the expression of other oncogenic transcripts , including Bcl-2 , Cyclin D1 , Nova1 , and VEGF-A , highlighting its broader role in cancer progression . Overall , our study supports that targeting YTHDC1 could be a novel therapeutic approach to overcome AR-V7-mediated treatment resistance in CRPC patients .
BACKGROUND : Endometrial carcinoma ( EC ) is a prevalent kind of cancerous tumor with significant morbidity and mortality . Mounting evidence reveals that lactylation modification plays a crucial role in tumorigenesis , but its connection to EC remains poorly understood . This study aimed to identify a lactylation-related gene signature to predict the prognosis of EC . METHODS : Differentially expressed lactylation-related genes between EC and normal samples were analyzed using the TCGA database . Univariate and LASSO Cox regression analyses were employed to construct the lactylation-related signature , which was then validated using both the test set and entire set . A nomogram was further developed and evaluated . Additionally , enrichment analysis , immune cell infiltration , tumor mutation burden and drug response were assessed between the two risk groups . RESULTS : Sixteen lactylation-related genes ( LRGs ) were selected to construct the prognostic signature . Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed that patients in the high-risk group had remarkably worse prognosis . A nomogram based on the signature and other clinical characteristics was constructed and demonstrated strong predictive power . Additionally , biological pathways , immune status , tumor mutation burden and drug response differed between the high- and low-risk groups . CONCLUSION : In conclusion , our study demonstrated that the LRG signature is a promising biomarker for EC , effectively distinguishing high-risk patients , predicting prognosis , and offering new strategic directions for antitumor immunotherapy .
Local calcium signals and formation of actin filaments help to steer and power neuronal morphology development and plasticity . Yet , responsible actin nucleators and their linkage to calcium transients largely remained elusive . Here , we identify the WH2 domain-based actin nucleator JMY as target of the calcium sensor calmodulin , reveal that JMY is critical for dendritic arbor formation and unravel that JMY ' s molecular mechanisms employed in dendritic arborization are depended on Arp2/3 complex interaction , Arp2/3 complex activity and functionality of JMY ' s WH2 domains , i . e . on JMY ' s abilities to promote actin filament formation . We furthermore demonstrate that Ca ( 2+ ) /calmodulin association regulates the G-actin loading of JMY ' s first WH2 domain . Consistently , JMY ' s functions in neuromorphogenesis rely on proper Ca ( 2+ ) /calmodulin signaling and on the first WH2 domain . These findings establish Ca ( 2+ ) /calmodulin signaling as an important , more widely used , but multifaceted mechanism of tight control of actin nucleators powering dendritic branch formation-a key aspect in neuronal network development in the brain .
Chemotherapy , which aims to eradicate tumor cells and enhance patient survival , is a prevalent approach for tumor treatment . Nevertheless , recurrence and drug resistance resulting from consecutive chemotherapy regimens have emerged as significant factors contributing to the high fatality rates among cancer patients . Numerous studies have revealed that chemicals discharged by injured and deceased cells can trigger the host repair program mediated by toll-like receptor-4 ( TLR-4 ) , enhancing tumor resistance . TLR-4 is not only expressed in immune cells but also in various malignant tumor cells , especially inflammation-associated tumor cells , and plays a crucial role in tumor formation , development , and chemoresistance . Endogenous ligands are released upon the killing of tumor cells by chemotherapy drugs , binding to and activating TLR-4 , subsequently activating downstream NF-kappaB and other essential molecules , leading to the release of multiple factors associated with tumor proliferation and invasion , creating a microenvironment conducive to local recurrence and metastasis , and promoting tumor progression and drug resistance . This review assessed studies on the resistance of several tumor cells to commonly utilized anticancer treatments induced by TLR-4 to better comprehend the phenomena and mechanism of TLR-4-dependent resistance , as well as to put forward suggestions and insights for overcoming tumor resistance .
The precise location and functions of N-methyladenosine ( mA ) modification on mammalian nuclear noncoding RNA remain largely unknown . Here we developed nuclear-mA-label-seq to directly map human and mouse cell nuclear RNA mA methylome at single-base resolution . Specifically , mA modifications have been identified on abundant human gamma satellite DNA II ( GSATII ) RNA transcripts , a type of repeat RNA , transcribed from SST1-TAR1-GSATII satellite arrays in the pericentromeric region of chromosome GSATII RNA mA positively regulates the transcription of GSATII-located satellite arrays as well as trans-associated peri/centromeric satellites , typically chromosome 3 centromeric higher-order repeat alpha satellite . Dysregulation of this circuit renders a phenotype of abnormal chromosome segregation . Mechanistic study reveals that YTHDC1 reads GSATII RNA mA marks and recruits bromodomain protein 4 ( BRD4 ) to promote transcriptions of the associated satellites via an mA-YTHDC1-BRD4-H3K27ac axis . These results uncover a mechanism governing the transcription of cis- and trans-associated pericentromeric and centromeric satellites via cross-talk between epitranscriptomic and epigenomic marks .
Mitochondrial dysfunction is a key driver of cancer progression , with therapies increasingly targeting metabolic weaknesses . Peptide YY ( PYY ) , a gastrointestinal hormone , regulates cellular activity , but its influence on mitochondrial health in lung cancer remains poorly understood . We explored how PYY1-36 , a bioactive fragment of PYY , affects mitochondrial stability in NCI-H1581 lung cancer cells . Using dose-response experiments , we measured oxidative stress by tracking lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) release , mitochondrial ROS levels , and oxidative DNA damage ( 8-OHdG ) . Energy production was evaluated through ATP levels , oxygen consumption rates ( OCR ) , and Complex I activity . We also analyzed mitochondrial biogenesis markers ( NRF1 , TFAM , PGC-1alpha ) and the RNA-binding protein RBM43 via qPCR and immunoblotting . Dose-dependent tests showed that PYY1-36 triggers mitochondrial oxidative damage , marked by higher LDH release and ROS spikes . These changes aligned with sharp drops in ATP production and disrupted respiratory function . Notably , PYY1-36 reduced mitochondrial mass and biogenesis , supported by weaker MitoTracker Red signals and lower mtDNA/nDNA ratios . Key regulators NRF1 and TFAM were strongly suppressed , pointing to widespread mitochondrial failure . Intriguingly , PYY1-36 blocked PGC-1alpha protein synthesis without altering mRNA levels , suggesting a post-transcriptional control mechanism . PYY1-36 also boosted RBM43 levels . Knocking down RBM43 reversed PYY1-36 ' s effects on PGC-1alpha and mitochondrial health . Our findings reveal RBM43 as a central player in PYY1-36-induced mitochondrial dysfunction through its suppression of PGC-1alpha translation . Targeting RBM43 could unlock new strategies to tackle metabolic chaos in lung cancer .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic reprogramming plays an important role in therapeutic efficacy of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . However , the metabolic reprogramming-related key genes associated with transcatheter arterial chemoembolization ( TACE ) treatment sensitivity in HCC remain further investigation . METHODS : We analyzed data from public databases , The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus , as well as metabolism-related genes ( MRGs ) , to identify key genes associated with TACE treatment sensitivity . Further analysis was conducted on the relationship between key genes and immune cell infiltration , HCC-related genes , regulatory network construction , nomogram construction , and drug sensitivity analysis . Finally , the expression of key genes was validated based on databases and in vitro RT-qPCR . RESULTS : Four key genes ( CDC20 , LPCAT1 , PON1 , and SPP1 ) associated with TACE treatment sensitivity were identified . Increased CDC20 , LPCAT1 , and SPP1 and reduced PON1 were found in tumor tissues than normal tissues , as well as in advanced patients than early-stage patients . Lower expression of CDC20 , LPCAT1 , and SPP1 , and higher expression of PON1 were detected in responsive patients than non-responsive patients . Patients with high expression of CDC20 , LPCAT1 , and SPP1 , and low expression of PON1 had poor prognosis . They were also correlated with tumor immune microenvironment and sensitivity to multiple chemotherapy drugs . The expressions of key genes at the gene and protein levels were validated . CONCLUSIONS : Our study provided systematic insights into identification of biomarkers for TACE treatment sensitivity in HCC .
Acute inflammation , characterized by a rapid influx of neutrophils , is a protective response that can lead to chronic inflammatory diseases when left unresolved . We previously showed that secretion of LTB-containing exosomes via nuclear envelope-derived multivesicular bodies is required for effective neutrophil infiltration during inflammation . Here we report that the co-secretion of these exosomes with nuclear DNA facilitates the resolution of the neutrophil infiltrate in a mouse skin model of sterile inflammation . Activated neutrophils exhibit rapid and repetitive DNA secretion as they migrate directionally using a mechanism distinct from suicidal neutrophil extracellular trap release and cell death . Packaging of DNA in the lumen of nuclear envelope-multivesicular bodies is mediated by lamin B receptor and chromatin decondensation . These findings advance our understanding of neutrophil functions during inflammation and the physiological relevance of DNA secretion .
Heightened sympathetic reflexes ( sympathetic hyperreflexia , SH ) post-high-level spinal cord injury ( SCI ) detrimentally impact effector organs , resulting in peripheral immune dysfunction and cardiovascular disease , two leading causes of morbidity and mortality in SCI . We previously found that an activated neuroimmune system after SCI contributes to intraspinal plasticity in the spinal sympathetic reflex ( SSR ) circuit , underlying SH . We hypothesize that activation of NF-kappaB , a key regulator of inflammation , in spinal cord below-SCI contributes to driving SSR circuit plasticity , resulting in SH-associated autonomic dysreflexia ( AD ) and peripheral immune dysfunction . Here , we demonstrate inhibition of central NF-kappaB signaling via intrathecal delivery of dimethylamino parthenolide ( DMAPT ) significantly decreases SH post-complete transection of thoracic spinal segment 3 in adult rats . This included reduced AD severity that was associated with decreased interneuron recruitment into the SSR circuit after SCI . We also observed intrathecal DMAPT-treatment improved survival post-SCI that corresponded with normalized numbers of splenic regulatory T-cells . These findings underscore central NF-kappaB signaling as a key component driving SH after SCI .
Metastatic bladder cancer is characterized by its aggressive behavior and complex molecular mechanisms that remain largely undefined . This study explores the therapeutic potential of targeting peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha ( PGC-1alpha ) using liposomal nanoparticles to deliver PGC-1alpha siRNA to bladder cancer cells . We employed comprehensive transcriptomic , proteomic , and metabolomic analyses to investigate the impact of PGC-1alpha silencing . Our in vitro results demonstrate that targeting PGC-1alpha significantly impairs mitochondrial function and disrupts energy metabolism , affecting critical pathways such as glycolysis and the citric acid cycle , as well as altering mRNA nuclear export . In vivo experiments in animal models show that nanoparticles loaded with si-PGC-1alpha effectively reduce lung metastasis , indicating a significant impact on metastatic progression . These findings highlight PGC-1alpha as a key regulator of metabolic reprogramming in metastatic bladder cancer and suggest that its inhibition could serve as a promising therapeutic strategy . By elucidating the role of PGC-1alpha in cancer metabolism , this study provides new insights into the molecular underpinnings of bladder cancer metastasis and offers potential avenues for developing targeted therapies aimed at the metabolic vulnerabilities of this malignancy .
Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) remains a malignancy with high incidence and mortality rates worldwide , necessitating the development of more effective therapeutic strategies due to the limitations of current treatments , including drug resistance and adverse effects . Scutellaria baicalensis , a traditional Chinese medicinal herb , contains baicalin and baicalein as its primary bioactive flavonoids , which exhibit notable pharmacological properties such as antibacterial , anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and antitumor effects . Recent studies have demonstrated that baicalin and baicalein show promising antitumor activity in CRC treatment through mechanisms such as scavenging reactive oxygen species , immune regulation , and inhibition of tumor cell proliferation , induction of apoptosis , and modulation of the gut microenvironment . This study further investigates the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of baicalin and baicalein in CRC , aiming to provide new research perspectives and potential clinical applications for the integration of flavonoid-based compounds from Scutellaria baicalensis in CRC treatment .
The overexpression of key biosynthetic genes involved in triptolide production through a metabolic engineering strategy significantly enhanced triptolide accumulation in Tripterygium wilfordii hairy roots . Triptolide , the representative bioactive compound in Tripterygium wilfordii , is renowned for its potent insecticidal and pharmacological properties . In order to increase the production of triptolide , this study overexpressed several key enzyme genes related to its biosynthesis in T . wilfordii hairy roots . Specifically , the content of triptolide in hairy roots overexpressing TwTPS9 and TwTPS27 individually was found to be 60-fold and 42-fold that of the control , respectively . Co-expression of both TwTPS9 and TwTPS27 resulted in significant increase in triptolide levels , reaching approximately 72 times that of the control . Furthermore , overexpressing TwGGPPS and TwDXS on the basis of the double gene overexpression led to the highest triptolide production , with a yield of 83 mg/L , increasing to 18-fold compared to the control . This study offers valuable examples into the efficient biosynthesis of triptolide and is expected to lay a foundation for future industrial-scale production by mitigating its resource constraints through metabolic engineering .
This paper aimed to identify specific acoustic parameters F1 , F2 , and Vowel Space Area ( VSA ) , Vowel Articulation Index ( VAI ) , Formant Centralization Ratio ( FCR ) for evaluating speech in Mandarin-speaking individuals with Unilateral Upper Motor Neuron ( UUMN ) dysarthria . Additionally , it explored the correlation between dysarthria severity and lesion side based on these parameters and scale results . This study conducted comparative study using acoustic spectral analysis to analyze phonetic features among UUMN dysarthria ( UUMND ) patients and neurologically normal adults , and the Left-sided and Right-sided upper motor neuron dysarthria ( UMND ) groups . The Mandibular-Oral Motor Function Assessment Scale ( MOMFAS ) was used in the study . The acoustic parameters F1 , F2 and VSA , VAI , FCR showed significant differences between individuals with UUMN dysarthria and neurologically normal adults . Comparing left-sided upper motor neuron ( UMN ) dysarthria patients with right-sided UMN dysarthria patients , a considerable increase in FCR was observed in the left-sided group , while VSA and VAI showed significant decreases . The mean scale score of left-sided UMN dysarthria patients was also significantly lower than that of individuals with right-sided UMN dysarthria . The severity of UUMND was more pronounced in individuals with left-sided lesions , providing supportive evidence of lateralization on the left hemisphere . The acoustic indices F1 , F2 and VSA , VAI , FCR can sensitively reflect the vowel changes of UUMND patients . They could be utilized not only to describe the acoustic properties of UUMND patients but also to assess the effectiveness of rehabilitation therapy on impaired vowel articulation in such patients .
Few studies have thoroughly evaluated the symptom burden and quality of life ( QOL ) among patients diagnosed with hematologic malignancies who underwent chimeric antigen receptor T-cell ( CAR-T ) therapy . In total , 97 eligible patients completed the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy generic scale ( FACT-G ) at week 4 after CAR-T cell infusion . We used the Common Terminology Criteria Adverse Events ( CTCAE ) to measure symptom burden of CAR-T patients during the same period . We studied factors associated with QOL using liner regression analysis . During the period of hospitalization after CAR-T treatment , the prevalence of self-reported symptoms among CAR-T patients was highest for fatigue ( 7% ) , followed by sleep disorders ( 4% ) and decreased appetite ( 0% ) . And the mean score of FACT-G was 06 ( SD = 88 ) . Liner regression analysis showed that decreased appetite ( beta = -30 , 95% CI = -48 to -83 , P = 002 ) , fatigue ( beta = -28 , 95% CI = -23- -69 , P = 002 ) , nausea ( beta = -26 , 95% CI = -50 to -16 , P = 003 ) and a history of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) ( beta = -21 , 95% CI = -38- -56 , P = 014 ) were associated with poorer quality of life . The symptom burden experienced by patients undergoing CAR-T treatment is substantial during their hospitalization , and it is closely associated with a diminished quality of life . It is imperative for clinical medical staff to be attentive to the symptom burden of CAR-T patients and to enhance the effectiveness of symptom management interventions .
This study aimed to address the prognostic value of positive lymph node ratio for oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma ( OCSCC ) patients after neoadjuvant treatment , and build a prediction nomogram model . Patients with OCSCC with neoadjuvant treatment were retrieved from the Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results database from 2004 to The primary outcome was overall survival ( OS ) , and the second outcome was disease-specific survival ( DSS ) . Kaplan-Meier and log-rank tests were used to analyze the survival outcomes . Univariable and multivariable analyses were conducted , and then a nomogram was constructed . A total of 419 were included in this study . The optimal cutoff value of the positive lymph node ratio ( LNR ) was 0% . The 5-year OS of patients with low LNR was significantly improved over those with high LNR ( p < 0001 ) . LNR > 0% ( HR 7 , 95% CI 7-5 ) , and unmarried status ( HR 33 , 95% CI 03-70 ) were the independent risk factors for OS ( all p < 05 ) . LNR > 0% ( HR 8 , 95% CI 63-7 ) , gum primary site ( HR 330 , 95% CI 132-827 ) , and preoperative chemotherapy and radiotherapy ( HR 91 , 95% CI 78-73 ) were the independent risk factors for DSS ( all p < 05 ) . According to the nomogram , patients were stratified into the high-risk group and the low-risk group for OS and DSS . Patients in the low-risk group were predicted with superior survival ( both p < 05 ) . The LNR was an independent prognostic factor of the OS and DSS for OCSCC patients after neoadjuvant treatment . The tools may be valuable to guide multidisciplinary teams in making treatment decisions .
Prostate cancer ( PCa ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality in men , with Gleason grading critical for prognosis and treatment decisions . Machine learning ( ML ) models offer potential for automated grading but are limited by dataset biases , staining variability , and data scarcity , reducing their generalizability . This study employs generative adversarial networks ( GANs ) to generate high-quality synthetic histopathological images to address these challenges . A conditional GAN ( dcGAN ) was developed and validated using expert pathologist review and Spatial Heterogeneous Recurrence Quantification Analysis ( SHRQA ) , achieving 80% diagnostic quality approval . A convolutional neural network ( EfficientNet ) was trained on original and synthetic images and validated across TCGA , PANDA Challenge , and MAST trial datasets . Integrating synthetic images improved classification accuracy for Gleason 3 ( 26% , p = 0010 ) , Gleason 4 ( 15% , p = 0274 ) , and Gleason 5 ( 32% , p < 0001 ) , with sensitivity and specificity reaching 81% and 92% , respectively . This study demonstrates that synthetic data significantly enhances ML-based Gleason grading accuracy and improves reproducibility , providing a scalable AI-driven solution for precision oncology .
The inflammatory response associated with Helicobacter pylori ( H . pylori ) infection causes a multitude of alterations in the gastric microenvironment , leading to the slow and steady disruption of the gastric epithelial barrier . Activation of NF-kappaB during H . pylori infection is crucial to this inflammatory response . Here , we show that CYLD , which interacts constitutively with TRAF6 , enhances H . pylori ' s ADP-heptose-induced activation of the classical NF-kappaB pathway in gastric epithelial cells . This activating effect of CYLD contrasts with the inhibitory effect of CYLD on receptor-mediated NF-kappaB activity . Mechanistically , CYLD counteracts the hydrolysis of ubiquitin chains from TRAF6 by deubiquitinylase A20 in a catalytically independent manner , thus supporting the auto-ubiquitinylation of TRAF6 upon activation of NF-kappaB in early H . pylori infection . In addition , the subsequent classical NF-kappaB-dependent de novo synthesis of A20 provides a negative feedback loop leading to shutdown not only of the classical but also of the alternative NF-kappaB pathway . Our findings highlight the regulatory relationship between CYLD and A20 in controlling classical as well as alternative NF-kappaB signaling in H . pylori infection .
Silencing of target susceptibility ( S ) genes in plants exhibits a promising and durable strategy for enhanced resistance to fungal pathogens by causing disruption in the host mechanisms that the pathogens exploit , offering an alternative to the traditional resistance gene-based approaches . Devastating fungal diseases have significantly reduced crop productivity , posing a potential threat to global food security . Producing disease-resistant cultivars is the most effective strategy for protecting crops against these fungal pathogens . Typically , susceptibility ( S ) genes in host plants facilitate the penetration and proliferation of phytopathogens . Perturbation of these S genes can potentially impede the compatibility between the host and the fungal pathogens , thereby providing broad-spectrum and lasting resistance . Consequently , the identification and targeting of S-genes have gained increasing interest in enhancing disease resistance in plants . In this review , we describe three distinct categories of S genes that function during different stages of the infection process . We focus on various gene silencing technologies , including RNA interference ( RNAi ) , virus-induced gene silencing ( VIGS ) , and CRISPR-Cas9 , to improve plant disease resistance against fungal pathogens . The numerous examples discussed here illustrate the potential of S-genes for use in plant disease-resistance breeding .
In recent years , significant advances have been made in magnetic neuromodulation technologies , enabling the manipulation of deep brain neurons without invasive implants . Wireless approaches , such as those leveraging magnetic nanoparticles and magnetosensitive proteins , have gained considerable attention . Among these , methods requiring low magnetic field density ( < 50 mT ) and low frequencies ( < 20 Hz ) show promise for broader applications due to their scalability and energy efficiency . However , the lack of cost-effective , user-friendly instruments for in vitro and in vivo experiments has hindered broader adoption . To address this , we demonstrate an open-source magnetic stimulation system that integrates Arduino-based hardware , electromagnetic coils , and real-time feedback sensors to monitor environmental parameters , including temperature , sound , vibration , and magnetic field density . Additionally , the system employs a closed-loop design , enabling adaptive control of magnetic stimulation based on tracking the subject ' s position and environmental feedback . A Python-based graphical user interface ( GUI ) allows researchers to design and control stimulation protocols while monitoring feedback signals in real-time . The system includes multiple solenoid designs optimized for diverse applications , such as cell culture studies , fluorescence microscopy , and in vivo behavioral experiments , ensuring compatibility across experimental scales . The stability and versatility of the system were evaluated in multiple behavioral paradigms , including light-dark box and place preference tests . This low-cost , easy-access , and flexible platform can facilitate magnetic neuromodulation research and promote accessibility for basic and translational studies in neuroscience and bioelectronics .
In the past decades , the pathogenic role of hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) in the development of liver fibrosis and its complications has been deeply characterized , rendering HSCs a primary target for antifibrotic therapies . By contrast , the beneficial roles of HSCs in liver homeostasis and liver disease are only beginning to emerge , revealing critical regulatory and fibrosis-independent functions in hepatic zonation , metabolism , injury , regeneration and non-parenchymal cell identity . Here , we review how HSC mediators , such as R-spondin 3 , hepatocyte growth factor and bone morphogenetic proteins , regulate critical and homeostatic liver functions in health and disease via cognate receptors in hepatocytes , Kupffer cells and endothelial cells . We highlight how the balance shifts from protective towards fibropathogenic HSC mediators during the progression of chronic liver disease ( CLD ) and the impact of this shifted balance on patient outcomes . Notably , the protective roles of HSCs are not accounted for in current therapeutic concepts for CLD . We discuss the concept that reverting the HSC balance from fibrogenesis towards hepatoprotection might represent a novel holistic treatment approach to inhibit fibrogenesis and restore epithelial health in CLD simultaneously .
Nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates ( N-BPs ) , widely used in bone disease therapy , inhibit the mevalonate pathway , which affects coenzyme Q ( CoQ ) biosynthesis and may compromise mitochondrial function , particularly in endothelial cells where oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction contribute to cardiovascular disease . This study examined the effects of chronic six-day exposure of human endothelial cells to N-BPs on mitochondrial bioenergetic functions , focusing on drug-induced mitochondrial CoQ ( mtCoQ ) deficiency . Compared with the mitochondria of control cells , those of endothelial cells treated with 5 microM alendronate or 1 microM zoledronate presented a significant 45-50% decrease in total mtCoQ pool , loss of reduced ( mtCoQH ) antioxidant mtCoQ pool , and elevated mitochondrial antioxidant protein superoxide dismutase 2 ( SOD2 ) and uncoupling protein 2 ( UCP2 ) levels . Exposing endothelial cells to N-BPs also led to an overall reduction in mitochondrial substrate oxidation , except for increased fatty acid oxidation . Additionally , the mitochondria of N-BP-treated endothelial cells presented decreased respiratory rates , membrane potential , and ATP synthesis efficiency , and increased HO production resulting from increased mtCoQ reduction during the oxidation of complex I ( CI ) and CII substrates . N-BP-induced mtCoQ deficiency also resulted in rearranged respiratory chain supercomplexes , particularly downregulation of the III + IV supercomplex , and decreased CII , CIII , and CV protein levels and activities . Despite the N-BP-induced decrease in a-heme levels , maximal CIV activity remained unaffected in endothelial mitochondria . These findings highlight the role of N-BPs in disrupting mtCoQ redox homeostasis and associated bioenergetic functions in endothelial mitochondria .
Psoriasis is a prevalent inflammatory skin disorder with immune-related mechanisms that remain incompletely understood . To elucidate the immune landscape of psoriasis , we analyzed expression profiles to identify 115 psoriasis susceptibility genes ( PSGs ) and subsequently pinpointing eight immune-related hub genes ( IRHGs ) . A predictive model incorporating these IRHGs demonstrated promising prognostic potential for psoriasis . Additionally , extensive intercellular communication was observed among keratinocytes , dendritic cells , monocytes , and T cells . The cellular differentiation trajectory revealed a complex interplay among various cell types and states , highlighting genes such as CXCL8 , CCL2 , STAT3 , and STAT1 emerging as closely associated with the cellular composition and functional status within the psoriatic immune microenvironment . The present study may shed light on the understanding of the immunopathological dynamics of psoriasis and the development of novel therapeutic strategies and biomarkers for this multifaceted skin disorder .
Mitochondrial dynamics are pivotal for host immune responses upon infection , yet how viruses manipulate these processes to impair host defence and enhance viral fitness remains unclear . Here we show that Kaposi ' s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) , an oncogenic virus also known as human herpesvirus 8 , encodes Bcl-2 ( vBcl-2 ) , which reprogrammes mitochondrial architecture . It binds with NM23-H2 , a host nucleoside diphosphate ( NDP ) kinase , to stimulate GTP loading of the dynamin-related protein ( DRP1 ) GTPase , which triggers mitochondrial fission , inhibits mitochondrial antiviral signalling protein ( MAVS ) aggregation and impairs interferon responses in cell lines . An NM23-H2-binding-defective vBcl-2 mutant fails to evoke fission , leading to defective virion assembly due to activated MAVS-IFN signalling . Notably , we identify two key interferon-stimulated genes restricting vBcl-2-dependent virion morphogenesis . Using a high-throughput drug screening , we discover an inhibitor targeting vBcl-2-NM23-H2 interaction that blocks virion production in vitro . Our study identifies a mechanism in which KSHV manipulates mitochondrial dynamics to allow for virus assembly and shows that targeting the virus-mitochondria interface represents a potential therapeutic strategy .
Delineating cell populations is crucial for understanding immune function in health and disease . Spatial omics technologies offer insights by capturing three complementary domains : single-cell molecular biomarker expression , cellular spatial relationships and tissue architecture . However , current computational methods often fail to fully integrate these multidimensional data , particularly for immune cell populations and intrinsic functional states . We introduce Cell Local Environment and Neighborhood Scan ( CellLENS ) , a self-supervised computational method that learns cellular representations by fusing information across three spatial omics domains ( expression , neighborhood and image ) . CellLENS markedly enhances de novo discovery of biologically relevant immune cell populations at fine granularity by integrating individual cells ' molecular profiles with their neighborhood context and tissue localization . By applying CellLENS to diverse spatial proteomic and transcriptomic datasets across multiple tissue types and disease settings , we uncover unique immune cell populations functionally stratified according to their spatial contexts . Our work demonstrates the power of multi-domain data integration in spatial omics to reveal insights into immune cell heterogeneity and tissue-specific functions .
The A ( H1N1 ) pdm09 virus , which caused the 2009 influenza pandemic , has continued to circulate in humans for over a decade . Understanding its biological properties is crucial for effective surveillance , prevention , and control . Here , we characterized recently circulating A ( H1N1 ) pdm09 viruses , focusing on strains isolated between 2016 and HA gene-based phylogenetic tree analysis revealed that post-pandemic A ( H1N1 ) pdm09 virus strains circulating between 2016 and 2019 form two clusters : subclade 6B . 1 and subclade 6B . 1 A . 5a . Growth kinetics of nine selected representative strains from these clusters showed that subclade 6B . 1 viruses replicated well in human lung cells , whereas some subclade 6B . 1 A . 5a viruses replicated poorly . In vivo , all viruses from both subclades caused significantly less weight loss in infected mice compared to the prototypic pandemic strain A/California/04/2009 ( Cal04/2009 ) . Additionally , virus titers in the lungs of mice infected with most viruses from subclade 6B . 1 or 6B . 1 A . 5a were significantly lower than those in mice infected with Cal04/ Furthermore , evolutionary analysis suggested multiple transitions to a less pathogenic phenotype , indicating an evolutionary trend towards attenuation . These results demonstrate that A ( H1N1 ) pdm09 viruses isolated between 2016 and 2019 are attenuated in mice , although the mutations responsible for this attenuation require further investigation . Our findings emphasize the need for continued monitoring of A ( H1N1 ) pdm09 viruses to understand their evolutionary dynamics and potential impact on public health .
Pancreatic cancer remains one of the leading causes of mortality worldwide , largely due to the limitations of current clinical strategies for its treatment . As a result , identifying genetic alterations and potential therapeutic targets could offer new opportunities for improving the diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic cancer . The identification of differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) and subsequent analyses , including signaling pathway enrichment , functional classification , and protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network construction , were conducted using three public datasets : GSE32676 , GSE71989 , and GSE Kaplan-Meier survival curves and receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves were employed to investigate the correlation between hub genes and clinicopathological features in pancreatic cancer patients . Genetic alterations were analyzed using the CBioPortal web tool . Cell proliferation was assessed through CCK-8 , colony formation , and EdU assays . Tumor migration , invasion , and angiogenesis were evaluated using transwell and tube formation assays , respectively . Protein and mRNA expression levels were measured via western blot analysis and qPCR assays . The subcutaneous xenografted nude mice models were generated to evaluate the potential effect of miR-485-3p/MELK cascade on tumor growth in vivo . Our analysis revealed that MELK expression is positively correlated with poor prognosis in patients with pancreatic cancer . The overexpression or knockdown of MELK significantly influences cell proliferation , tumor metastasis , and angiogenesis across various pancreatic cancer cell lines . Furthermore , we identified that miR-485-3p regulates MELK expression by directly targeting the MELK 3 ' UTR binding site in pancreatic cancer cells , which subsequently impacts tumor progression . Additionally , our findings demonstrate that the miR-485-3p/MELK cascade is closely associated with tumor progression in pancreatic cancer cells . Mechanistically , the miR-485-3p/MELK cascade promotes the phosphorylation of Akt to regulate pancreatic cancer cell progression , metastasis , and angiogenesis . Furthermore , overexpression of miR-485-3p inhibits the tumor growth induced by MELK overexpression in subcutaneous xenograft model . MiR-485-3p/MELK cascade may serve as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target for the diagnosis and treatment of pancreatic cancer .
Angiogenesis is one of the hallmarks of solid tumors . Exosomes are extracellular vesicles , which are involved in multiple stages of tumor progression . The role of macrophage-derived exosomes in angiogenesis in oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) , where macrophages are crucial components of the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) , remains to be explored . The M2 macrophages and microvessels in OSCC were stained by immunohistochemistry . M2 macrophages were induced in vitro and exosomes were extracted by gradient centrifugation using ultracentrifugation . Fluorescence confocal microscopy was used to observe the uptake of M2 macrophage-derived exosomes by human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) . CCK-8 proliferation assay , TRANSWELL migration assay and tube formation assay were used to detect the effects of M2 macrophage-derived exosomes on the proliferation , migration and tube formation of HUVECs . Immunohistochemical study showed that M2 macrophage infiltration was positively correlated with microvessel density in OSCC . We induced M2 macrophages in vitro and successfully extracted its exosomes . The cellular internalization of fluorescence-labeled exosomes by HUVECs was dynamically monitored via laser scanning confocal microscopy . The M2 macrophage-derived exosomes promoted the proliferation , migration , and tube-forming ability of HUVECs . The results showed that M2 macrophage-derived exosomes could promote the proliferation , migration and tubulation of HUVECs .
Streptococcus pneumoniae , a Gram-positive , human-specific commensal infectious pathogen , poses a significant global health threat , especially in children under five , often resulting in fatalities . The intricacies of the immune response in pneumococcal meningitis ( PM ) remain elusive , necessitating a meticulous examination of immune cell subsets at the single-cell resolution . In this study , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from PM patients and healthy individuals . We found significant relative changes in the compositions of immune cell subset , with significant relative increases in platelets , neutrophils , and their precursors , alongside relative decreases in natural killer ( NK ) cells , T cell subtypes , and plasmacytoid dendritic cells in PM patients . Functional enrichment analyses revealed an up-regulation of neutrophils-related immune genes across multiple immune cell types , including platelets , myeloid cells and B cells , suggesting excessive neutrophil activation . However , a down-regulation of genes involved in antigen processing and presentation in myeloid cells and B cells in the PM group indicated a relative dampening of the adaptive immune response in the PM patients . This was further corroborated by the reduced proportions of plasmacytoid dendritic cells and T cells . Furthermore , genes involved in cytotoxity were down-regulated in both NK cells and T cells , alongside impaired T cell activation . Notably , distinct B cell subtypes , including unique naive B cell clusters , demonstrated differentially expressed genes associated with both innate and adaptive immune responses . In conclusion , our study provides a comprehensive single-cell transcriptomic landscape of immune responses in PM . The identified cellular and molecular signatures offer potential targets for therapeutic intervention and provide a foundation for further investigation into the immunopathogenesis of pneumococcal meningitis .
Plastic pollution has become a major environmental issue . Waste degrades into microplastics and nanoplastics , which contaminate water , soil , and air , and affect ecosystems and food sources . To elucidate the effects of microplastics on cellular systems , it is essential to comprehend their properties and manipulation at the microscopic scale . This work examines the optical trapping stability of different irregularly shaped laboratory-synthesized , mechanically weathered microplastics : polypropylene ( PP ) , polyethylene terephthalate ( PET ) , and high-density polyethylene ( HDPE ) . We conducted a statistical assessment of optical trapping stability , considering factors such as particle material , color-induced absorption , size , and response to different optical trapping wavelengths ( 473 nm , 780 nm , and 820 nm ) . Additionally , we compared these results with the predicted optical trapping stability , simulated for particles with two types of spheroidal shapes . Our results indicate that non-spherical PP microplastics exhibit the highest stability in a single-beam optical trap , while PET microplastics demonstrate the lowest stability . The optical trapping stability of PP and HDPE microplastics is relatively size-independent ; however , PET particles larger than 10 mum are three times less likely to be stably trapped than smaller particles . Furthermore , non-transparent materials with higher absorption rates cause less stable optical trapping of microplastics for all three material types . The insights gained regarding the optical properties of irregularly shaped microplastics will help future research on the optically controlled interactions of naturally occurring microplastics with cells and microorganisms at the single-cell level .
The emerging fungal pathogen Candida auris is notorious for environmental persistence , which is a major contributor to outbreaks in healthcare settings . Here we report that giant lipid droplets ( gLDs ) inside C . auris cells play critical roles in the ability to survive harsh environments . C . auris cells that contain gLDs exhibit an increased tolerance to environmental stresses , antifungals , and host-associated antimicrobial peptides . These cells often undergo significant cell wall remodeling and sloughing of the outer layer of the cell wall . Lipidomics analysis indicates that cells with gLDs contain a significantly higher level of triacylglycerols , sterol esters , and other lipids , such as glycerolipids , sphingolipids , and sterol lipids . At the transcriptional level , a large set of differentially expressed genes was observed between C . auris cells with and without gLDs . Our study reveals that gLDs are a new strategy used by C . auris to adapt to stressful conditions and to persist in hospital environments .
In China , Henan Province is a region with a high HIV burden . Furthermore , drug resistance ( DR ) among people living with HIV/AIDS ( PLWHA ) on antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) is becoming a critical barrier to achieving viral suppression . Monitoring DR in PLWHA with detectable viremia after ART is crucial , especially given the widespread use of NNRTI and NRTI , which have historically been the backbone of China ' s national ART program due to affordability and availability . In this study , plasma samples from PLWHA with viral load ( VL ) >/= 40 copies/mL after >/= 6 months of ART from January 2023 to December 2023 were collected for genotypic DR testing . Of 804 individuals with detectable viremia , a total of 14 HIV-1 subtypes were detected . The top five subtypes were B ( 97% , 450/804 ) , CRF01_AE ( 14% , 178/804 ) , CRF07_BC ( 42% , 124/804 ) , CFR55_01B ( 36% , 27/804 ) , and CRF08_BC ( 00% , 8/804 ) . DR analysis revealed a prevalence of 79% ( 545/804 ) . The resistance rates for non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NNRTIs ) , nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors ( NRTIs ) , protease inhibitors ( PIs ) , and integrase strand transfer inhibitors ( INSTIs ) were 94% ( 506/804 ) , 23% ( 428/804 ) , 34% ( 59/804 ) , and 98% ( 32/804 ) , respectively . The prevalence of DR among PLWHA below and >/= 200 copies/mL were 63% ( 13/32 ) and 91% ( 532/772 ) , respectively . Multivariate regression analysis showed that age < 29 years and 40-49 years , baseline CD4 count < 500 cells/microL , current VL of 10-10 copies/mL , and initial ART regimen of NRTIs + NNRTIs were closely associated with the occurrence of DR . These findings highlight the urgent need for expanded access to drug resistance testing and the adoption of WHO-recommended regimens , such as dolutegravir ( DTG ) , to mitigate the growing threat of DR . Our results suggest that drug resistance testing should be applied to all PLWHA with detectable viremia , and treatment strategies should be optimized to align with global guidelines .
Genomic alterations in tumor cells can influence immune response , as has been demonstrated in several tumor types . For instance , mutations in certain genes like EGFR or B-RAF are associated with a particular immune phenotype . Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) is one of the most immunogenic tumors , but certain genomic alterations can modulate and influence immune response . In the present work , we explore the transcriptomic landscape and immunologic profile of NSCLC with molecular alterations in SMARCA Using the TCGA repository we exploited their analysis with R and other available packages . cBioPortal was used to explore and analyze the mutational profile present in those tumors The prognostic value of identified genes in patients treated with immunotherapy was evaluated using the KMplotter online tool , and for correlations with immune populations TIMER 0 was interrogated . In lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( LUSC ) disruptive mutations in SMARCA4 were presented in 8% , and 4% of the cases , respectively . Gene deletions were observed in 1% of the population . The transcriptomic profile in LUAD and LUSC with deletions or disruptive mutations was explored . Interrogating TCGA using a 5 gene expression fold change ( FC ) we observed five genes commonly upregulated , and thirty-one genes commonly decreased when SMARCA4 was mutated or CNV loss was present . Enriched biological functions for downregulated genes included " Antigen processing and presentation , endogenous lipid antigen via MHC class Ib . Expression of CD1A , CD1C , CD1E , CX3CR1 , and MYO1G showed a strong positive correlation with dendritic cells ( DC ) and dendritic cells resting ( DCR ) . The increased expression of gene signatures formed by these transcripts resulted in a better prognosis in a set of patients with different tumors treated with anti-PD1 therapies , including 21 non-small cell lung cancers . We evaluated genomic alterations and transcriptomic patterns of SMARCA4 alterations in NSCLC tumors , identifying a relevant immunologic downregulated gene set linked with antigen presentation that predicts response to anti-PD1 therapies .
The hippocampus is an archicortical structure that is highly sensitive to experience and is made up of individual subfields . These subfields , crucial for learning and memory , rapidly develop and are vulnerable to early stress , yet the mechanisms are unknown . Here , we analyse data from 520 neonates born between 23 and 42 weeks ' gestation to assess how early extrauterine exposure-related stress influences subfield maturation . Subfields are segmented automatically by training a U-net model on infant data using HippUnfold , a novel tool for subfield segmentation . Results indicate that subfield volumes are resilient to early stress , while myelination shows greater vulnerability and variation , which may contribute to long-term outcomes . Notably , subfields are not uniformly impacted by stress , with CA1 and CA2 showing the largest effects . Developmental context , including time spent in and ex utero , primarily influences hippocampal subfield myelination .
Endoparasitic wasps produce several factors , such as polydnavirus , venom and a specialized group of wasp embryonic cells named teratocytes , to condition their hosts and support the development of parasitoid offspring . However , the role of the developing parasitoid larvae in host adaption and regulation remains largely unknown . By analyzing RNA-seq data of Cotesia vestalis , an endolarval parasitoid of the diamondback moth Plutella xylostella , we discovered that most of the larval stage highly expressed genes are associated with nutrient metabolism , including carbohydrate , protein , and lipid metabolism . We also identified hundreds of C . vestalis larvae-secreted proteins . A large proportion of the secreted proteins ( 126/404 ) are encoded by larval highly expressed genes . Besides several immune-related proteins , most of the secreted proteins are closely related to carbohydrate , protein , and amino acid metabolism . We further demonstrated that eleven genes linked to amino acid metabolism that encode secretory proteins were upregulated in 2nd instar larvae . These results suggest a relatively positive correlation between gene expression and secreted proteins . In summary , our study presents the secretory proteome of an endolarval parasitoid , highlighting its potential function in nutritional and immune regulation within the host , which would benefit the growth and development of parasitoid progeny .
This study sought to investigate the anticancer efficacy of limocitrin on two distinct human oral cancer cell lines . At first , we evaluated the effect of limocitrin on the proliferation of OSCC cells ( SCC-9 and SCC-47 ) using MTT and colony formation assays . Limocitrin treatment increased cell cycle arrest at G2/M phase , induced caspase-related apoptosis ( cleaved caspase-3 , caspase-8 , caspase-9 and PARP expression ) in OSCC cells . Limocitrin treatment inhibited Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL and induced Bax , Bak expression in both SCC-9 and SCC-47 cell lines . Limocitrin treatment inhibited cyclin E1 , E2 , CDK2 , CDK4 , and CDK6 and increased p21 expression . Limocitrin also exhibited an inhibitory effect on the phosphorylation of AKT , ERK1/2 and JNK in a dose-dependent manner . Additionally , pretreatment of oral cancer cells with U0126 resulted in increased cleaved caspase-3 and caspase-8 and PARP expression . Furthermore , limocitrin treatment decreased XIAP , cIAP1 , HSP27 protein expression than control group . Combined treatment with limocitrin and si-XIAP significantly increased cleaved PARP , caspase-3 and -8 expressions in SCC-9 cells . Overall , this evidence indicates that limocitrin may serve as an effective anticancer agent for the treatment of oral cancer .
Currently , research has found a close correlation between childhood obesity ( CO ) and elevated levels of polyamines in the bloodstream . Thus , the identification of key genes associated with polyamines metabolism in CO could offer fresh insights for clinical management of CO . This study utilized two datasets from public databases ( GSE205668 and GSE104815 ) and 59 polyamines metabolism-related genes ( PMRGs ) to screen for candidate genes . Subsequently , candidate key genes were selected using Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis , and machine learning algorithms were employed to obtain intersecting feature genes based on the MR results . Then key genes were identified through expression validation . Finally , we conducted research on the key genes including gene set enrichment analysis ( GSEA ) , immune infiltration , and transcription factor ( TF ) -mRNA network . Differential analysis identified 432 candidate genes linked to childhood obesity and polyamine metabolism , with 4 key genes showing causal relationships . Specifically , WWC1 , NPL , and LAPTM5 as risk factors [odd ratio ( OR ) > 1] , while GPAT3 ( OR < 1 ) was identified as a protective factor for CO . Machine learning algorithms pinpointed 3 feature genes ( WWC1 , NPL , and GPAT3 ) with significant differential expression and consistent trends . GSEA revealed ribosome and lysosome pathways linked to key genes . MITF regulated these genes in the TF-mRNA network . Twelve immune cell types , mostly correlating with key genes , were identified . We identified 3 key genes ( WWC1 , NPL , and GPAT3 ) related to polyamine metabolism in CO . Additionally , we investigated their potential biological functions and regulatory mechanisms , aiming to provide new theoretical basis for the treatment and diagnosis of CO .
Uveitis is a leading cause of blindness in the world and autoimmune uveitis is an ocular tissue specific autoimmune disease . Utilizing experimental autoimmune uveitis ( EAU ) , we can interrogate different immune responses in the mouse that are relevant to the human disease . cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 ( CTLA-4 ) is an immune checkpoint molecule that has different roles depending on the target tissue . In this work we investigate the role of CTLA-4 on CD4 T cells in ocular tissue during EAU . We find that CTLA-4 is needed for both the severity of disease but also timely resolution of disease . Regulatory T cells ( Tregs ) that emerge in the spleen during resolution of EAU require CTLA-4 to suppress disease , but ocular Tregs that emerge in the eye do not require CTLA-4 to suppress disease . This report provides an additional understanding of CTLA-4 on Tregs that is specific for ocular tissue . The implications of this work are that circulating Tregs in uveitis patients may require CTLA-4 to suppress ocular inflammation but once in the eye the function of CTLA-4 is dispensable .
Retinol palmitate ( VApal ) , an active ingredient in ophthalmic solution , has been reported to repair corneal injuries . Additionally , it has been suggested that the efficacy of VApal is enhanced by a specific surfactant , polyoxyethylene-polypropylene [EOPOEO ( EOPO ) ] . We aimed to determine the efficacy of VApal in corneal wound healing in comparison to that of hyaluronic acid ( HA ) , carboxymethyl cellulose ( CMC ) and hydroxypropyl methylcellulose ( HPMC ) used in over-the-counter ophthalmic solutions and whether the efficacy of VApal could be enhanced by EOPO compared to the widely used surfactant , polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 60 ( HCO60 ) . To evaluate the efficacy of VApal or VApal emulsified with a surfactant , we performed a wound healing assay using corneal epithelial cells in monolayer ( n = 4 ) or 3D culture ( n = 6 ) . Wound closure rates were calculated each time , and the efficacy was compared using the time to reach a 50% wound closure rate ( ET50 ) . The ET50 values of VApal , HA , CMC and HPMC were approximately 31 h , 99 h , 98 h and 01 h respectively . The ET50 values of VApal emulsified with EOPO or HCO60 were 49 h and 31 h , respectively . In conclusion , VApal is more beneficial than other ingredients for corneal wound healing . Additionally , the efficacy of VApal can be enhanced using EOPO instead of HCO
Replication timing ( RT ) , the temporal order in which genomic regions replicate , is considered a functional feature of multiple cellular processes and chromatin organization . Two approaches to measure RT are the Repli-seq and DNA copy number ( also called S/G1 ) methods . We previously adapted Repli-seq using 5-ethynyl-2 ' - deoxyuridine ( EdU ) pulse-labeling and bivariate flow sorting , and while the approach offers high resolution and exposes heterogeneity in timing , the S/G1 method is a simpler , faster and less resource-intensive assessment . Here we modified the S/G1 technique by using EdU labeling ( EdU-S/G1 ) to facilitate better separation of replicating from non-replicating nuclei during flow sorting , which enables the collection of a more pure sample of G1-phase nuclei . When comparing the three methods we found that profiles from the S/G1 and EdU-S/G1 methods are highly correlated with each other and with Repli-seq profiles for early replication . We also found that the EdU-S/G1 approach offers a better representation of replication in early and late S phase than the conventional S/G1 method . However , the high reproducibility of RT profiles among all three methods indicates that considerations of cost and sample availability can drive the decision of which method to choose .
Aging results in a progressive decline in physiological function due to the deterioration of essential biological processes . While proteomics offers insights into aging mechanisms , prior studies are limited in proteome coverage and lifespan range . To address this , we integrate the Orbitrap Astral Mass Spectrometer with the multiplex tandem mass tag ( TMT ) technology to profile the proteomes of cortex , hippocampus , striatum and kidney in the C57BL/6JN mice , quantifying 8 , 954 to 9 , 376 proteins per tissue ( 12 , 749 total ) . Samples spanned both sexes and three age groups ( 3 , 12 , and 20 months ) , representing early to late adulthood . To improve TMT quantitation accuracy , we develop a peptide-spectrum match-based filtering strategy that leverages resolution and signal-to-noise thresholds . Our analysis uncovers distinct tissue-specific patterns of protein abundance , with age and sex differences in the kidney and primarily age-related changes in brain tissues . We also identify both linear and non-linear proteomic trajectories with age , revealing complex protein dynamics over the adult lifespan . Integrating our findings with early developmental proteomic data from brain tissues highlights further divergent age-related trajectories , particularly in synaptic proteins . This study provides a robust data analysis workflow for Orbitrap Astral-based TMT analysis and expands the proteomic understanding of aging across tissues , ages , and sexes .
Neutron Capture Therapy ( NCT ) for cancer treatment is experiencing renewed interest due to advancements in accelerator-based neutron beams , treatment planning software , and patient positioning devices . This study presents the adaptation of an existing neutron radiography beamline ( Dingo ) , at the OPAL research nuclear reactor , for radiobiological research and novel neutron capture agent development . Human glioblastoma cell cultures were irradiated for up to 10 min with a flux of 57 x 10 n/cm s ( +/- 73 x 10 ) and the resulting impact was quantified by assessing DNA damage by both immunocytochemistry and flow cytometry . This low cost methodology extends the capability of an existing beamline to allow the development of novel neutron capture agents and study of neutron radiobiological mechanisms . Increasing availability of neutron sources for biological study in this fashion will accelerate the development of NCT for disease specific clinical application .
This study employed a trans-ethnic two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis to investigate the causal relationship between membranous nephropathy ( MN ) and peripheral artery disease ( PAD ) . In European populations , MN exhibited a significant positive causal effect on PAD ( discovery : OR = 040 , P = 028 ; validation : OR = 028 , P = 031 ) , whereas no such association was observed in East Asians ( P > 05 ) . A two-step mediation analysis identified several proteins influenced by MN , including thrombomodulin ( TM ) ( beta = 031 , P = 001 ) , macrophage colony-stimulating factor 1 ( MCSF1 ) ( beta = 239 , P = 015 ) , stem cell factor ( SCF ) ( beta = 028 , P = 002 ) , and tissue factor ( TF ) ( beta = 031 , P = 001 ) , while MN negatively affected interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) ( beta=-049 , P = 015 ) and hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) ( beta=-027 , P = 005 ) . Multivariable MR analysis confirmed that only TM had an independent positive causal effect on PAD ( beta = 225 , P < 001 ) , and mediation analysis further validated TM as a significant mediator in the MN-to-PAD pathway ( Z = 823 , P = 048 ) . Sensitivity analyses detected no significant pleiotropy or heterogeneity , supporting the robustness of our findings . This study highlights crucial ethnic differences in MN-associated PAD risk and underscores the importance of population-specific research . TM may serve as a potential therapeutic target for PAD prevention in MN patients , particularly those of European ancestry , providing novel insights into kidney-vascular disease mechanisms .
Neuroblastoma ( NB ) is the most common type of pediatric extra-cranial tumor that arises in the sympathetic nervous system . The heterogeneity of T-cell exhaustion ( TEX ) has been linked to the determination of distinct clinical outcomes and the effectiveness of immunotherapy in numerous adult malignancies . Therefore , studying the heterogeneous TEX landscape in NB as well as its impact on clinical outcomes is meaningful . The gene expression and clinical datasets of the Sequencing Quality Control ( SEQC ) , E-MTAB-8248 , and Therapeutically Applicable Research to Generate Effective Treatments ( TARGET ) cohorts were downloaded from publicly available databases . Two TEX-related clusters for neuroblastoma were identified in the SEQC cohort . Patients in TEX-C1 exhibited superior overall survival ( OS ) and event-free survival ( EFS ) rates compared with those in TEX-C And TEX-C1 had more immune cells infiltrating , as well as higher expression of immune checkpoint genes . A total of 1984 genes were differentially expressed between these two clusters , of which 1712 were associated with OS . A gene signature consisting of ten TEX-related genes was developed , and a risk score was computed for each patient . Based on the risk score , SEQC patients were split into high- and low-risk groups with significantly different survival rates . The risk score was an independent risk factor predicting survival and showed superior prediction power for 3 , 5 , and 10-year survival compared to individual clinical parameters . The signature was further confirmed in the TARGET and E-MTAB-8248 cohorts . This study has successfully constructed a risk score model for NB prognosis , utilizing TEX as its foundation . The model provides risk classification and survival evaluation , which can further guide treatment .
A significant factor in relapse and dismal prognosis of glioblastoma is the migrating glioblastoma cells , which diffuse away from the tumor mass into the brain parenchyma . Post-resection application of biomaterials to deliver cytotoxic agents against the invading glioblastoma cells has recently gained attention . The aim of this study was to develop a non-swelling , non-inflammatory biomimetic hydrogel with sustained release of a chemoattractant for glioblastoma cells and perform in vivo proof-of-concept studies to show chemoattraction of invading glioblastoma cells in orthotopic models of human glioblastoma . We used hyaluronic/collagen II-based ( HA/Col ) hydrogel that incorporates liposomes loaded with CXCL12 to develop GliaTrap . Sustained release of CXCL12 was measured with an ELISA assay . The non-inflammatory properties of GliaTrap were assessed in-vivo after stereotactic implantation in the mouse brain using a cytokine array and immunohistochemistry . The efficacy of GliaTrap on attracting GSCs was determined in-vivo employing 3D light-sheet microscopy on orthotopic human glioblastoma xenografts . We show that GliaTrap is an injectable , non-swelling biomimetic hydrogel that attains sustained release of CXCL12 and does not induce inflammation in the mouse brain . GliaTrap significantly attracts invading glioblastoma cells in orthotopic xenograft models of human glioblastoma as shown with 3D light sheet microscopy . Our findings indicate that GliaTrap can be safely used to attract invading glioblastoma cells by sustained release of a chemoattractant without inducing inflammatory conditions in the brain or local swelling .
This study aimed to identify the key cell types and their interactions in gynecological oncology of breast cancer , cervical cancer , and ovarian cancer . Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed on tumor samples of gynecological oncology from the GEO database . Cell types were identified using SingleR and cell composition was analyzed to understand the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . CellChat was used to analyze cell interactions , and pseudotemporal analysis was conducted on cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) and tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) to understand their differentiation status . Four CAF subtypes were identified : iCAF , myCAF , proCAF , and matCAF . The iCAF subpopulation secreted COL1A1 and promoted tumor cell migration , while myCAF was involved in angiogenesis . The matCAF subpopulation was present throughout tumor development . TAMs were found to promote angiogenesis through the VEGFA_VEGFR2 signaling pathway . CAFs and TAMs play pivotal roles in tumor progression through their interactions and signaling pathways .
A recent parallel-opposed 3D-conformal radiotherapy ( 3D-CRT ) study in mice compared dose escalation ( boost ) in hypoxic ( pO2 </= 10 torr ) and non-hypoxic tumor subvolumes . They found a hypoxic boost led to significantly greater ( p < 1e-4 ) tumor control probability than an equivalent non-hypoxic boost . We imported imaging and treatment data from this study for 31 SCC7 squamous carcinoma murine leg tumor cases-16 hypoxic boost and 15 non-hypoxic boost plans into a commercial treatment planning system for preclinical radiotherapy . Treatments were retrospectively recalculated with a fast Monte Carlo dose engine . We replanned cases with 3-field IMRT using an analogous uncertainty budget as 3D-CRT . Comparing both treatment groups , the hypoxic boost treatments had a significantly higher hypoxic fraction receive the boost prescription as planned in 3D-CRT ( p < 1e-4 ) and IMRT ( p < 1e-4 ) . Surprisingly , retrospective 3D-CRT non-hypoxic boost treatments had a significantly lower non-hypoxic fraction receive the boost prescription ( p < 1e-4 ) . 3D-CRT non-hypoxic boost also substantially underdosed the entire tumor between 48-68 Gy compared to the " equivalent " hypoxic boost . In IMRT , the non-hypoxic volume receiving boost prescription was significantly higher in the non-hypoxic boost ( p = 0215 ) and dosing in the entire tumor was identical between boost groups . This study displays IMRT ' s potential to advance the quality of preclinical dose painting studies .
Two studies were conducted on the relationship between ruminal mat consistency ( RMC ) and calf mortality or immunity . Assessment of RMC was by ten repeated manual compressions of the middle rumen ; good-RMC showed no fluid bounce-back ( FBB ) , while poor-RMC showed FBB . The first study examined whether RMC affected calf mortality . Monthly feeding management guidance ( FMG ) was implemented for 5 years on a commercial farm with Holstein-Friesian x Japanese black calves , directing increased forage consumption for poor-RMC calves aged 50-180 days . Compared to 35 control farms , the FMG period showed significantly lower total mortality ( 8% vs . 8% , P < 001 , OR = 7 ) and lower respiratory mortality ( 3% vs . 1% , P < 001 , OR = 3 ) . The second study tested the hypothesis that RMC affects calf immunity . Peripheral blood of good-RMC ( n = 6 ) and poor-RMC ( n = 6 ) calves was compared . Good-RMC showed higher phagocytosis in monocytes ( P = 05 , r = 63 ) and granulocytes ( P = 02 , r = 78 ) , and higher numbers of CD4 + ( P = 07 , r = 58 ) , CD8 + ( P = 07 , r = 60 ) , and B-cells ( P = 03 , r = 62 ) . In mRNA expression , good-RMC showed lower TNF-alpha ( P = 02 , r = 70 ) , IL-1 ( P = 09 , r = 49 ) , IL-12 ( P = 04 , r = 59 ) and IL-10 ( P = 13 , r = 44 ) , and higher IL-16 ( P = 07 , r = 53 ) compared to poor-RMC . These results suggest that RMC affects calf mortality and immunity , emphasizing the importance of feeding management in improving sustainability .
Parkinson ' s disease is characterized by a period of non-motor symptoms , including gastrointestinal dysfunction , preceding motor deficits by several years to decades . This long prodrome is suggestive of peripheral immunity involvement in the initiation of disease . We previously developed a model system in PINK1 KO mice displaying PD-like motor symptoms at late stages following intestinal infections . Herein , we map the initiating immune events at the site of infection in this model . Using single-cell RNAseq , we demonstrate that peripheral myeloid cells are the earliest highly dysregulated immune cell type followed by an aberrant T cell response shortly after . We also demonstrate an increased propensity for antigen presentation and that activated myeloid cells acquire a proinflammatory profile capable of inducing cytotoxic T cell responses . Together , our study provides the first evidence that PINK1 is a key regulator of immune functions in the gut underlying early PD-related disease mechanisms .
m6A modifications are involved in regulating microRNA ( miRNA ) processing and maturation , and are associated with tumor development . Therefore , this study was aimed to explore the mechanism of miR-122-5p in regulating hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) progression . mRNA expression and transfection efficiency were detected by RT-qPCR . Western blot was employed to measure protein level . Cell functions were evaluated through CCK-8 and transwell , respectively . Intracellular m6A levels were analyzed by MeRIP . Dual luciferase reporter gene , RIP and co-IP were applied to verify the binding relationship . Xenograft tumor model was carried out for in vivo validation of miR-122-5p function . We reported that miR-122-5p was clearly lessened in HCC . Functionally , miR-122-5p introduction inhibited the malignant progression of HCC . Mechanistically , METTL14 insertion promoted miR-122-5p maturation by labeling pri-miR-122 with m6A . In addition , miR-122-5p exerted suppressor effects by targeting Lysine acetyltransferase 2 A ( KAT2A ) . Moreover , we also found that KAT2A overexpression limited beta-catenin expression through succinylation modification . Finally , animal data also illustrated that miR-122-5p introduction could hinder the growth of HCC tumors in vivo . We revealed the existence of a METTL14/miR-122-5p/KAT2A/beta-catenin mechanistic axis in HCC , which has not been reported in the literature . This newly discovered mechanistic axis may provide new ideas for HCC therapy .
The rising mortality rate from cancer , driven by the absence of reliable biomarkers , highlights the pressing need for advanced diagnostic and prognostic strategies . This study investigates LZTS2 ' s role as a pan-cancer biomarker , emphasizing its predictive value for immunotherapy and therapeutic targeting . Unlike existing biomarkers such as AFP in hepatocellular carcinoma or HER2 in gastric cancer , which exhibit tissue-specific utility , LZTS2 demonstrates unique cross-cancer applicability , as evidenced by its consistent dysregulation in both liver hepatocellular carcinoma ( LIHC ) and stomach adenocarcinoma ( STAD ) alongside emerging associations with other malignancies . Leveraging advanced bioinformatics tools and databases including UALCAN , KM-plotter , and The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) , alongside experimental validation in LIHC and STAD cell lines , we analyze LZTS2 expression patterns and their clinical relevance . Notably , LZTS2 ' s dual role-acting as a tumor suppressor in some cancers while promoting oncogenesis in others-distinguishes it from conventional single-function markers , offering novel insights into its regulatory versatility . Our findings reveal that LZTS2 mutations and expression levels are closely associated with cancer progression and patient survival , solidifying its potential as a prognostic biomarker . Notably , LZTS2 expression correlates with various clinicopathological parameters , underscoring its significance in cancer biology . Pathway analysis highlights LZTS2 ' s involvement in critical biological processes , providing actionable insights for therapeutic interventions . Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR ) and quantitative methylation-specific PCR ( qMSP ) experimental validations confirm these results , further establishing LZTS2 ' s utility as a multi-dimensional biomarker that integrates genetic , epigenetic , and immunological features-a capability rarely observed in existing markers . This comprehensive analysis positions LZTS2 as a pivotal player in cancer progression , opening promising avenues for enhanced clinical management .
In a perovskite oxide of [Formula : see text] , the [Formula : see text] octahedral rotation and tilting are known to result in a structural distortion and transform the crystalline structure to a lower symmetry phase , such as the tetragonal phase ( T-phase ) and distorted orthorhombic phase ( O-phase ) . Here , we present the observation of such structural transformation in 6 unit cell ( uc ) ultrathin films of [Formula : see text] ( SRO ) driven by an additional [Formula : see text] ( STO ) capping layer . A series of nominal STO ( x uc ) /SRO ( 6 uc ) films with x ranging from 0 to 8 were grown on STO substrates using an oxide molecular beam system with adsorption-controlled growth technique for SRO and layer-by-layer growth technique for STO . Systematic high-resolution X-ray diffraction measurements revealed a clear transition from the T-phase for x = 0 to the O-phase for x = 2 and 8 , which was accompanied by a change of the structural orientation from -oriented SRO in T-phase to -oriented SRO in O-phase . Our findings highlight the possibility of intriguing interface-driven structural phase and orientation transformations in a perovskite oxide system .
Adiposity is a major risk factor for the development of cancers , such as breast cancer ( BC ) in adults . However , the role of central adiposity or general obesity as primary predictors of BC occurrence and progression is not well-established . Therefore , the current study aimed to assess the association between various adiposity indices , including a body shape index ( ABSI ) , abdominal volume index ( AVI ) , body roundness index ( BRI ) , conicity index ( CI ) , body adiposity index ( BAI ) , reciprocal ponderal index ( RPI ) , and waist to height ( 5 ) ratio ( WHt ( 5 ) R ) as surrogates for predicting the odds of BC in adult women . This case-control study was conducted at Shohada and Imam Hossain hospitals in Tehran and included 134 newly diagnosed BC cases and 267 controls . Anthropometric variables , including weight , height , and waist circumference were measured using standard methods , and various adiposity indices were calculated accordingly . The odds ratios ( ORs ) with 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) for BC were reported across tertiles of adiposity indices using multivariable logistic regression . Participants in the highest tertile of BRI ( OR : 07 ; 95% CI : 04-12 ) , BAI ( OR : 06 ; 95% CI : 05-03 ) , and WHt ( 5 ) R ( OR : 81 ; 95% CI : 01-55 ) had significantly higher odds of BC compared to those in the lowest tertile ( P < 05 ) . Additionally , each SD increase in RPI was associated with lower odds of BC ( OR : 77 ; 95% CI : 61-98 , P = 034 ) . However , no significant associations were observed for CI , AVI , and ABSI with the odds of BC . Our results suggest that WHtR , BRI , BAI , and WHt ( 5 ) R may be more effective predictors of BC odds among the evaluated adiposity indices .
The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying cerebral ischemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) injury are highly complex . Previous studies have indicated phenotypic changes in various cell types following stroke but have failed to identify the key regulatory genes and cell subtypes associated with the disease . The study utilized five datasets : GSE227651 , GSE104036 , GSE116878 , GSE249957 , and GSE The Seurat pipeline was employed for standard quality control and single-cell data analysis . Monocle2 and CytoTRACE were used for trajectory analysis , while Mfuzz was applied to identify time-series gene expression patterns . Middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) mice served as the animal model for cerebral I/R injury , and oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation ( OGD/R ) -treated BV2 cells were used to simulate microglial phenotypic changes following ischemia-reperfusion . qPCR , Western blotting , and immunofluorescence staining were used to detect key gene and protein alterations . P65 was identified as a key transcription factor driving inflammatory responses and transcriptional changes following ischemic stroke . Two microglial subtypes , Cx3cr1 + and Cdk1+ , were identified , with their proportions significantly increasing on days 1 and 3 after MCAO . Increased levels of inflammation , neuronal apoptosis , and P65 phosphorylation in microglia were observed in both the MCAO animal model and OGD/R cell model . Notably , inhibition of P65 phosphorylation effectively suppressed the progression of inflammation during cerebral I/R injury . We identified microglial subtypes associated with inflammatory responses following cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury , with their proportions increasing post-injury . P65 was confirmed as a critical regulator of the inflammatory response , contributing to neuronal protection and the restoration of neurological function .
Bone defects are common orthopedic conditions , and due to the limited regenerative capacity of bone tissue , their repair remains a challenge in orthopedic surgery . Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) have demonstrated strong potential for osteogenic differentiation ; however , their efficiency in vivo remains restricted , particularly in terms of differentiation and migration . Photobiomodulation ( PBM ) , a non-invasive therapeutic technique , has shown great promise in promoting stem cell differentiation . In this study , we cultured human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells ( hUCMSCs ) in vitro and treated them with 635/808 nm laser light . We measured alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) activity , mineralized nodule formation , and the expression of osteogenesis-related genes and factors after 7 , 14 , and 21 days . The results showed that PBM treatment significantly enhanced hUCMSC proliferation and osteogenic differentiation . The mechanism behind this effect involves PBM activating the upstream Akt signaling pathway , increasing P-Akt expression , and elevating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) levels to induce mild oxidative stress . This process enhances ALP activity , mineralized nodule formation , and the expression of osteogenesis-related genes and factors , thus promoting the osteogenic differentiation of hUCMSCs .
DNA methylation clocks have been widely used for accurate age prediction , but most studies have been carried out on mammals . Here we present an epigenetic clock for the aquatic frog Xenopus tropicalis , a widely used model organism in developmental biology and genomics . To construct the clock , we collected DNA methylation data from 192 frogs using targeted bisulfite sequencing at genomic regions containing CpG sites previously shown to have age-associated methylation in Xenopus . We found highly positively and negatively age-correlated CpGs are enriched in heterochromatic regions marked with H4K20me3 and H3K9me Positively age-correlated CpGs are enriched in bivalent chromatin and gene bodies with H3K36me3 , and tend to be proximal to lowly expressed genes . These epigenetic features of aging are similar to those found in mammals , suggesting evolutionary conservation of epigenetic aging mechanisms . Our clock enables future aging biology experiments that leverage the unique properties of amphibians .
Cell migration , which is often impaired under high glucose ( HG ) conditions , plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of various diabetic complications . This study investigates the role of mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase ( ALDH2 ) in the HG-induced migratory inhibition . Using fibroblasts sub-cultured in HG medium as a cell model of chronic hyperglycemia , we found that prolonged exposure to HG stress inhibited cell migration via a novel mechanism independent of oxidative stress or cell death . By increasing osmolality , HG induced perinuclear clustering of mitochondria , enhanced focal adhesion maturation , and caused the cells to be less responsive to migratory cues . The pharmacological inhibition of ALDH2 exaggerated this phenomenon , while ALDH2 overexpression protected cells from the migratory impairment caused by HG-induced hyperosmolality . Cells with ALDH2 overexpression exhibited less mature focal adhesions and longer mitochondrial network , suggesting that ALDH2 might preserve mitochondrial integrity to facilitate the focal adhesion turnover during cell migration .
This study tackles a key challenge in modern energy management : how to optimize energy distribution when expanding the network is not economically or practically feasible . It explores the integration of hybrid renewable energy sources into a microgrid ( MG ) and proposes an energy dispatch strategy for MGs operating in both grid-connected and standalone modes . The study incorporates various energy sources , including solar panels ( PV ) , wind turbines ( WT ) , fuel cells ( FC ) , microturbines ( MT ) , diesel generators ( DG ) , and energy storage systems ( ESS ) . Unlike many existing studies that focus only on reducing operating costs , this research also considers energy losses , environmental impacts , and demand response-a vital but often overlooked factor . The research introduces a new method using a mixed-integer linear programming approach to solve the microgrid energy management ( MGEM ) problem . This method provides a multi-objective solution that includes demand response scheduling and optimizes factors such as PV and WT capacities , energy storage strategies , battery usage , power exchange with the grid , and overall costs and environmental impacts . When compared to leading optimization algorithms , the proposed approach showed better performance . The study also highlights the benefits of demand response programs in improving MG operations . For instance , using a Real-Time Pricing ( RTP ) -based demand response program reduced operating costs by 31% , emission penalties by 61% , and power losses by 62% . Similarly , a Direct Load Control ( DLC ) -based program achieved reductions of 25% , 1% , and 56% , respectively . This work advances MG energy management by addressing overlooked factors and demonstrating the benefits of integrating demand response programs into energy optimization strategies .
Breast cancer is a complex and challenging disease to treat , and despite progress in combating it , drug resistance remains a significant hindrance . Drug combinations have shown promising results in improving therapeutic outcomes , and many machine learning models have been proposed to identify potential drug combinations . Recently , there has been a growing emphasis on enhancing the interpretability of machine learning models to improve our biological understanding of the drug mechanisms underlying the predictions . In this study , we developed a random forest model using simulated protein activities derived from Boolean modeling of breast cancer signaling pathways as input features . The model demonstrates a moderate Pearson ' s correlation coefficient of 40 between the predicted and experimentally observed synergistic scores , with the area under the curve ( AUC ) of Despite its moderate performance , the model offers insights into the interpretable mechanisms behind its predictions . The model ' s input features consist solely of the individual protein activities simulated in response to drug treatments . Therefore , the framework allows for the analysis of each protein ' s contribution to the synergy level of each drug pair , enabling a direct interpretation of the drugs ' actions on the signaling networks of breast cancer . We demonstrated the interpretability of our approach by identifying proteins responsible for drug resistance and sensitivity in specific cell lines . For example , the analysis revealed that the combination of MEK and STAT3 inhibitors exhibits only a moderate synergistic effect on MDA-MB-468 due to the negative contributions of mTORC1 and NF-kappaB that diminish the efficacy of the drug pair . The model further predicted that hyperactive PTEN would sensitize the cells to the drug pair . Our framework enhances the understanding of drug mechanisms at the level of the signaling pathways , potentially leading to more effective treatment designs .
Collective cell migration is central to processes like development and cancer metastasis . While mechanisms of collective motility are increasingly understood , their classification remains incomplete . Here , we study the migration of small cell chains , namely cohesive pairs . Experiments with Dictyostelium discoideum ( Dd ) revealed two motility modes : the individual contributor ( IC ) mode , where each cell generates its own traction dipole , and the supracellular ( S ) mode , characterized by a single dipole . Dd pairs favored the IC mode , while Madin-Darby canine kidney ( MDCK ) doublets predominantly used the S mode . A 2D biophysical model recapitulated many experimental observations ; the IC mode emerged naturally in ameboid Dd doublets when both cells exerted similar traction stresses , while the S mode dominated with stronger leaders . Contrary to amebas , MDCK-like cell chains showed a bias towards the IC mode when increasing cell-cell adhesion . Extending the model to longer chains , we show its potential for understanding emergent migration patterns across cell types and scales .
As a progressive fibrotic lung disorder with high mortality , pulmonary fibrosis ( PF ) suffers from inadequate treatment options . While the traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM ) formulation Huaxian Formula ( HXF ) demonstrates multi-target therapeutic potential against PF , the identity of its active components and their mechanistic basis of action require systematic investigation . To elucidate the therapeutic effects and pharmacological mechanisms of HXF in treating PF induced by nickel oxide nanoparticles ( nano NiO ) , utilizing network pharmacology ( NP ) , molecular docking , as well as in vivo and in vitro experiments . A comprehensive analysis of authoritative databases identified 121 active compounds , 202 potential therapeutic targets , and 1664 PF-related genes . Among these , 105 overlapping targets were found between HXF and PF . Gene Ontology ( GO ) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) analyses identified the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway as both a pivotal mechanism in PF pathogenesis and a primary target of HXF ' s therapeutic effects . Molecular docking studies revealed that the six core compounds ( quercetin , luteolin , kaempferol , beta-sitosterol , isorhamnetin , and formononetin ) of HXF exhibited strong binding affinity to proteins involved in the PI3K/AKT pathway . In the rat and A549 cell model , HXF treatment reduced collagen deposition and downregulated the expression of type I collagen ( Col-I ) . Mechanistically , HXF inhibited the phosphorylation of PI3K and AKT . Collectively , these findings suggested that HXF alleviated PF by modulating the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway , providing valuable insights and methods for the development of TCM for PF .
Perioperative neurocognitive disorder ( PND ) is a long-term perioperative complication that affects elderly surgical patients . As the aging population continues to grow , the prevention and treatment of PND have become important issues to address . Research has shown that ulinastatin significantly reduces the incidence of PND in elderly patients undergoing various types of surgery , including spinal and abdominal surgeries . However , the underlying mechanisms of this effect remain unclear . Transient receptor potential melastatin 4 ( TRPM4 ) is a Ca2 + -activated , monovalent cation channel associated with many neurological diseases . In the present study , we aimed to investigate the relationship between ulinastatin and TRPM4 in PND and to determine its underlying mechanism . Forty eighteen-month-old male SpragueDawley rats were randomly divided into four groups : the sham group , surgery group ( internal fixation of tibial fracture ) , ulinastatin group ( ulinastatin + surgery ) , and 9-phenanthrol group ( TRPM4 channel inhibitor 9-phenanthrol + surgery ) . The neurocognitive function of the rats was detected using the Y-maze and new object recognition ( NOR ) tests . We used WB , qPCR , and IF to detect the expression levels of TRPM4 in different groups of rats . We also detected the degree of apoptosis in rat hippocampal cells . Surgery under inhaled sevoflurane anesthesia induced cognitive impairments and elevated the expression of TRPM4 in the hippocampus . Downregulation of TRPM4 expression by ulinastatin or 9-phenanthrol alleviated cognitive impairments after anesthesia and surgery . Furthermore , ulinastatin treatment decreased the level of apoptosis in the hippocampus . Ulinastatin downregulates TRPM4 expression and apoptosis to mitigate cognitive dysfunction in aged perioperative neurocognitive disorder rats , and ulinastatin is a promising neuroprotectant against PND .
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease , this study aims to investigate the immune landscape in carotid atherosclerotic plaque formation and explore diagnostic biomarkers of lactylation-associated genes , so as to gain new insights into underlying molecular mechanisms and provide new perspectives for disease detection and treatment . Single cell transcriptome data and Bulk transcriptome data of carotid atherosclerosis samples were obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) . Eleven cell types were identified by scRNA-seq data . Lactylation scores were significantly higher in gammadeltaT cells than in cells of other subtypes , but lower in plasma cells than in cells of other subtypes . The scores of malignant related pathways were significantly increased in cells with high lactylation scores . scRNA-seq combined with bulk-seq identified differentially expressed lactylation genes in carotid atherosclerosis . A diagnostic model was constructed by combining 10 machine learning algorithms and 101 algorithms , SOD1 , DDX42 and PDLIM1 as core genes . Further analysis revealed that the expression levels of core genes were significantly correlated with immune cell infiltration , and their regulatory networks were constructed . Clinical samples verified that the expression of core gene in unstable plaque was significantly lower than that in stable plaque , suggesting that it has protective effect on atherosclerosis . By combining scRNA-seq and Bulk transcriptome data in this study , three lactylation-associated genes SOD1 , DDX42 and PDLIM1 were identified in carotid atherosclerosis samples , providing targets for the diagnosis and treatment of carotid atherosclerosis samples .
Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder driven by genetic predisposition and environmental exposure . Given its well-documented antioxidative and neuroprotective properties , resveratrol is increasingly being considered for its potential to counteract the neuronal damage characteristic of Parkinson ' s disease . Here , we investigated the therapeutic action of resveratrol in a transgenic Drosophila melanogaster model expressing human alpha-synuclein ( SNCA , PD flies ) , in combination with network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses . The PD flies were fed diet supplemented with resveratrol ( 15 , 30 , and 60 mg/kg diet , approximately 57 , 14 and 28 mM , respectively ) , to evaluate lifespan . This was followed by a 21-day treatment of PD flies with similar concentrations of resveratrol in the diet to evaluate cognitive function , oxidative stress , and antioxidant biomarkers , using Levodopa ( 1 mM ) as positive control . The results showed that resveratrol supplementation in the diet significantly improved lifespan , locomotor activity , acetylcholinesterase and catalase activities , and thiol content compared to untreated PD flies . Furthermore , resveratrol reduced nitric oxide ( nitrite/nitrate ) , malondialdehyde , and total hydroperoxide levels , and enhanced cellular metabolic activity and upregulated Sod1 mRNA expression ( p < 05 ) . The network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses identified key molecular targets that may account for the therapeutic action of resveratrol , including B-Cell Lymphoma 2 , Monoamine Oxidase ( MAO ) ; in flies , MAO-Like , Dopa Decarboxylase , Protein Kinase A and Glycogen Synthase Kinase-3 ( GSK-3 ) . Among these , MAO and GSK-3 emerged as top targets as indicated by network prominence and strong binding interactions . Additionally , the binding interaction of resveratrol to SNCA at specific sites suggests a potential role in inhibiting its aggregation , which is a hallmark of PD pathology . Quantum mechanics calculations revealed that resveratrol functions as both a proton donor and acceptor , contributing to its strong target binding interactions and antioxidant potential . Overall , resveratrol supplementation in the diet may be beneficial for PD management by modulating dopamine metabolism , apoptosis , oxidative stress , and cell survival . The study provides valuable experimental and computational insights into the underlying therapeutic mechanisms of action of resveratrol and supports its potential use in PD management .
Altitude training is a method among endurance athletes to enhance performance via hypoxia-induced adaptations . However , individual responses vary significantly , with some athletes even showing performance decrements . Iron metabolism and immune function may influence these adaptations , as hypoxia-induced erythropoiesis increases systemic iron demand , potentially affecting immune cells reliant on iron . This study investigated the interplay between hematological , iron , and immunological variables under controlled normobaric hypoxia . 15 highly trained athletes participated in a 21-day live-high-train-low training camp in a normobaric altitude house . Blood samples were collected pre- and post-camp and at four intermediate time points to measure hematological variables , iron metabolism variables , and immunological variables . Pre- and post-performance was assessed via VOmax tests . Statistical analyses included paired t-tests , Wilcoxon rank-sum test , Spearman correlations , and Granger causality analysis to explore systemic temporal interactions . VOmax increased significantly ( p < 05 ) with large interindividual variability ( 4 +/- 5 ml/min/kg ) . Hemoglobin concentration , erythrocytes , and the soluble transferrin receptor ( sTfR ) showed significant increases over time ( p < 05 ) , while ferritin peaked early and declined post-camp . Myeloperoxidase and lactoferrin exhibited dynamic correlations with iron variables ( p < 05 ) , reflecting competition between erythropoiesis and immune function for iron . The structure of the Granger causality network places transferrin in a central role , highlighting iron metabolism as one key regulator of these adaptations . Normobaric hypoxia training induces systemic physiological changes involving hematological , iron , and immune systems . Controlled hypoxic conditions enable detailed exploration of these interactions , providing insights into optimizing altitude training strategies for endurance performance enhancement .
Personalized cancer vaccines elicit robust T cell immunity and anti-tumour potency , but identifying tumour-specific antigens remains challenging , severely constraining the therapeutic window . Biomimetic nanovaccines employing cancer cell membranes display inherent biocompatibility and stimulate T-cell responses against diverse tumour antigens , though tumours develop multiple mechanisms to reduce antigen presentation . Here we demonstrate a rapid and general strategy to fabricate personalized nanovaccines based on Antigen-Enriched tumor Cell Membranes ( AECM ) for early intervention . Interferon-gamma potently stimulates antigen presentation across a broad range of cancer cell types . By coupling the generated AECM with PC7A adjuvant , a stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) -activating polymer , the AECM@PC7A nanovaccine induces robust poly-neoepitopic T-cell responses even at low dosage , achieving significant tumour regression and metastasis inhibition in multiple murine cancer models . This anti-tumor response relies on MHC-I restricted antigen presentation and CD8 ( + ) T-cell activation , with dendritic cells presenting AECM antigens predominantly via cross-dressing to prime T-cells . AECM@PC7A exhibits remarkable anti-tumor efficacy when compared to vaccines with diverse formulations , and demonstrates therapeutic potential in post-surgical and humanized xenograft tumor models . This proof-of-concept study provides a promising universal avenue for the rapid development of personalized cancer vaccines applicable to early intervention for a broad range of patients .
Chimeric Antigen Receptor ( CAR ) T cell therapy is a pivotal treatment for hematological malignancies . However , CAR T cell products exhibit batch-to-batch variability in cell number , quality , and in vivo efficacy due to donor-to-donor heterogeneity , and pre/post-manufacturing processes , and the manufacturing of such products necessitates careful testing , both post-manufacturing and pre-infusion . Here , we introduce the Cell Trajectory Modulation ( CTM ) assay , a microfluidic , label-free approach for the rapid evaluation of the functional attributes of CAR T cells based on biophysical features ( i . e . , size , deformability ) . CTM assay correlates with phenotypic metrics , including CD4 : CD8 ratio , memory subtypes , and cytotoxic activity . Validated across multiple donors and culture platforms , the CTM assay requires fewer than 10 , 000 cells and delivers results within 10 minutes . Compared to labeled flow cytometry processing , the CTM assay offers real-time data to guide adaptive manufacturing workflows . Thus , the CTM assay offers an improvement over existing phenotypic assessments , marking a step forward in advancing CAR T cell therapy manufacturing .
High-throughput massively parallel reporter assays ( MPRAs ) and phenotype-rich in vivo transgenic mouse assays are two potentially complementary ways to study the impact of noncoding variants associated with psychiatric diseases . Here , we investigate the utility of combining these assays . Specifically , we carry out an MPRA in induced human neurons on over 50 , 000 sequences derived from fetal neuronal ATAC-seq datasets and enhancers validated in mouse assays . We also test the impact of over 20 , 000 variants , including synthetic mutations and 167 common variants associated with psychiatric disorders . We find a strong and specific correlation between MPRA and mouse neuronal enhancer activity . Four out of five tested variants with significant MPRA effects affected neuronal enhancer activity in mouse embryos . Mouse assays also reveal pleiotropic variant effects that could not be observed in MPRA . Our work provides a catalog of functional neuronal enhancers and variant effects and highlights the effectiveness of combining MPRAs and mouse transgenic assays .
Neuronal activity-driven mechanisms influence glioblastoma cell proliferation and invasion , while glioblastoma remodels neuronal circuits . Although a subpopulation of malignant cells enhances neuronal connectivity , their impact on the immune system remains unclear . Here , we show that glioblastoma regions with enhanced neuronal connectivity exhibit regional immunosuppression , characterized by distinct immune cell compositions and the enrichment of anti-inflammatory tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) . In preclinical models , knockout of Thrombospondin-1 ( TSP1/Thbs1 ) in glioblastoma cells suppresses synaptogenesis and glutamatergic neuronal hyperexcitability . Furthermore , TSP1 knockout restores antigen presentation-related genes , promotes the infiltration of pro-inflammatory TAMs and CD8 + T-cells in the tumor , and alleviates TAM-mediated T-cell suppression . Pharmacological inhibition of glutamatergic signaling also shifts TAMs toward a less immunosuppressive state , prolongs survival in mice , and shows the potential to enhance the efficacy of immune cell-based therapy . These findings confirm that glioma-neuronal circuit remodeling is strongly linked with regional immunosuppression and suggest that targeting glioma-neuron-immune crosstalk could provide avenues for immunotherapy .
Transcriptomes provide highly informative molecular phenotypes that , combined with gene perturbation , can connect genotype to phenotype . An ultimate goal is to perturb every gene and measure transcriptome changes , however , this is challenging , especially in whole animals . Here , we present ' Worm Perturb-Seq ( WPS ) ' , a method that provides high-resolution RNA-sequencing profiles for hundreds of replicate perturbations at a time in living animals . WPS introduces multiple experimental advances combining strengths of Caenhorhabditis elegans genetics and multiplexed RNA-sequencing with a novel analytical framework , EmpirDE . EmpirDE leverages the unique power of large transcriptomic datasets and improves statistical rigor by using gene-specific empirical null distributions to identify DEGs . We apply WPS to 103 nuclear hormone receptors ( NHRs ) and find a striking ' pairwise modularity ' in which pairs of NHRs regulate shared target genes . We envision the advances of WPS to be useful not only for C . elegans , but broadly for other models , including human cells .
Scirpus x mariqueter ( Tang & F . T . Wang ) Tatanov , which is endemic to eastern estuaries in China , is a tidal zone-engineering species with great promise for managing greenhouse gases and enhancing ecosystem resilience against invasive species . Although S . mariqueter is widely recognized as a hybrid species derived from Bolboschoenus planiculmis ( F . Schmidt ) T . V . Egorova and Schoenoplectus triqueter ( L . ) Palla , its speciation remains highly controversial . The lack of a reference genome is the major cause of this ambiguity . We generated the first chromosome-level genome assembly for S . mariqueter combining PacBio long-reads , Illumina short-reads , and the Hi-C method . The genome assembly consisted of 75 Mb ( contig N50 : 89 Mb ) . We also constructed a haploid karyotype comprising 54 pseudochromosomes . The average size of these pseudochromosomes was small ( 05 Mb ) . Thirty-two pseudochromosomes were assembled to a telomere to telomere level . Repetitive elements represented approximately 12% of the genome . We predicted and annotated 25 , 239 protein-coding genes . The overall BUSCO score was 10% , with notably few duplicated genes ( 70% ) . This high-quality genome provides critical data for future studies .
Kinases regulate cellular processes and are essential for understanding cellular function and disease . To investigate the regulatory state of a kinase , numerous methods have been developed to infer kinase activities from phosphoproteomics data using kinase-substrate libraries . However , few phosphorylation sites can be attributed to an upstream kinase in these libraries , limiting the scope of kinase activity inference . Moreover , inferred activities vary across methods , necessitating evaluation for accurate interpretation . Here , we present benchmarKIN , an R package enabling comprehensive evaluation of kinase activity inference methods . Alongside classical perturbation experiments , benchmarKIN introduces a tumor-based benchmarking approach utilizing multi-omics data to identify highly active or inactive kinases . We used benchmarKIN to evaluate kinase-substrate libraries , inference algorithms and the potential of adding predicted kinase-substrate interactions to overcome the coverage limitations . Our evaluation shows most computational methods perform similarly , but the choice of library impacts the inferred activities with a combination of manually curated libraries demonstrating superior performance in recapitulating kinase activities . Additionally , in the tumor-based evaluation , adding predicted targets from NetworKIN further boosts the performance . We then demonstrate how kinase activity inference aids characterize kinase inhibitor responses in cell lines . Overall , benchmarKIN helps researchers to select reliable methods for identifying deregulated kinases .
Post-translational SUMO modification is a widespread mechanism for regulating protein function within cells . In humans , SUMO-conjugated proteins are partially regulated by the deconjugating activity of six SENP family members . The proteolytic activity of these enzymes resides within a conserved catalytic domain that exhibits specificity for the two primary SUMO isoforms : SUMO1 and SUMO2/ SENP5 , along with SENP3 , are nucleolar proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis and preferentially target SUMO2/3 isoforms . Here , we present the crystal structures of human SENP5 in complex with both SUMO1 and SUMO2 isoforms . These structures reveal a minimal complex interface and elucidate the molecular basis for SENP5 ' s preference for the SUMO2 isoform . This preference can be attributed to a basic patch surrounding SENP5 Arg624 at the interface . Swapping mutagenesis and structural analysis demonstrate that Arg624 is favorably oriented to interact with Asp63 in SUMO2/3 , while its interaction with the equivalent Glu67 in SUMO1 is less favorable . These results suggest that subtle structural differences within SUMO isoforms can significantly influence their deconjugation by SENP enzymes , opening new avenues for exploring the regulation of SUMOylation in various cellular processes and for developing therapeutic agents targeting SUMOylation pathways .
Wireless bioresorbable electrical stimulators have broad potential as therapeutic implants . Such devices operate for a clinically relevant duration and then harmlessly dissolve , eliminating the need for surgical removal . A representative application is in treating peripheral nerve injuries through targeted stimulation at either proximal or distal sites , with operation for up to one week . This report introduces enhanced devices with additional capabilities : simultaneous stimulation of both proximal and distal sites , and robust operation for as long as several months , all achieved with materials that naturally resorb by hydrolysis in surrounding biofluids . Systematic investigations of the materials and design aspects highlight the key features that enable dual stimulation and with enhanced stability . Animal model studies illustrate beneficial effects in promoting peripheral nerve regeneration , as quantified by increased total muscle and muscle fiber cross-sectional area and compound muscle action potentials . These findings expand the clinical applications of bioresorbable stimulators , particularly for long-term nerve regeneration and continuous neuromodulation-based monitoring .
The endangered mountain gorilla , Gorilla beringei beringei , faces numerous threats to its survival , highlighting the urgent need for genomic resources to aid conservation efforts . Here , we present a near telomere-to-telomere , haplotype-phased reference genome assembly for a male mountain gorilla generated using PacBio HiFi ( 77x ave . coverage ) and Oxford Nanopore Technologies ( 87x ave . coverage ) data . The resulting non-scaffolded assembly exhibits exceptional contiguity , with contig N50 of ~95 Mbp for the combined pseudohaplotype ( 3 , 540 , 458 , 497 bp ) , 5 Mbp ( 1 Gbp ) and 0 Mbp ( 2 Gbp ) for each haplotype , an average QV of 15 ( error rate = 1 x 10 ( -7 ) ) , and a BUSCO score of 4% . These represent substantial improvements over most other available primate genomes . This first high-quality reference genome of the mountain gorilla provides an invaluable resource for future studies on gorilla evolution , adaptation , and conservation , ultimately contributing to the long-term survival of this iconic species .
The red/far-red light receptor phytochrome B ( phyB ) plays essential roles in regulating various plant development processes . PhyB exists in two distinct photoreversible forms : the inactive Pr form and the active Pfr form . phyB-Pfr binds phytochrome-interacting factors ( PIFs ) to transduce red light signals . Here , we determined the cryo-electron microscopy ( cryo-EM ) structures of the photoactivated phyB-PfrPIF6 complex , the constitutively active mutant phyB ( Y276H ) PIF6 complex , and the truncated phyBN ( Y276H ) PIF6 complex . In these structures , two parallel phyB-Pfr molecules interact with one PIF6 molecule . Red light-triggered rotation of the PPhiB D-ring leads to the conversion of hairpin loops into alpha helices and the " head-to-head " reassembly of phyB-Pfr N-terminal photosensory modules . The interaction between phyB-Pfr and PIF6 influences the dimerization and transcriptional activation activity of PIF6 , and PIF6 stabilizes the N-terminal extension of phyB-Pfr and increases the Pr-->Pfr photoconversion efficiency of phyB . Our findings reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying Pr-->Pfr photoconversion and PIF6-mediated red light signal transduction of phyB .
Hepatic ischemiareperfusion injury ( HIRI ) occurs during liver surgery , contributing to postoperative complications such as liver failure , prolonged hospital stays , and increased morbidity and mortality rates . Yet , the mechanism underlying HIRI remains unclear . Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase ( NNMT ) facilitates the conversion of nicotinamide into N-methylnicotinamide ( 1-MNA ) and plays crucial roles in various pathophysiological processes . In this study , we find a decrease in hepatic NNMT expression and serum 1-MNA levels during HIRI . Both NNMT overexpression and exogenous 1-MNA treatment alleviate HIRI in male mice HIRI models and primary hepatocytes H/R models . Mechanistically , NNMT/1-MNA plays key roles in inflammation , apoptosis , and vascular injury during HIRI through the AKT/FOXO1/ANGPT2/JNK axis . Hepatic-specific depletion of NNMT leads to increased ANGPT2 expression and exacerbates HIRI , effects that can be mitigated by ANGPT2 knockdown . Our findings suggest that NNMT/1-MNA/ANGPT2 may regulate HIRI via the JNK signaling pathway . In summary , we present the function of NNMT and its underlying mechanism in liver injury , providing potential new therapeutical strategies for addressing HIRI .
While chemo-immunotherapy has been established as the frontline therapeutic regimen for extensive-stage small cell lung cancer ( ES-SCLC ) , durable responses persist predominantly in a minor population of patients . This underscores critical need to elucidate underlying local tumor microenvironment and systematic immune profiles for biomarker discovery . In this phase II trial ( ChiCTR2000038354 ) , the efficacy , safety , and immune-genomic signatures of sintilimab ( anti-PD-1 antibody ) synergized with chemotherapy as first-line regimen for ES-SCLC were evaluated . The regimen demonstrated a median progression-free survival ( PFS ) of 9 months and median overall survival of 1 months , accompanied by a 12-month PFS rate of 9% , fulfilling the primary endpoint . Manageable grade 3 or 4 treatment-related adverse events developed in 3% ( 12/44 ) of patients . The exploratory study indicated a higher infiltration of CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) CXCR5 ( + ) T follicle helper cells , CD8 ( + ) CD103 ( + ) tissue-resident memory T cells , and B cells in tumor tissue , associated with better response and prognosis . The study also indicated the presence of tumor macrophages ( CD68 ( + ) CD163 ( + ) CSF1R ( + ) SIGLEC5 ( + ) ) associated with immunotherapy resistance . Higher levels of monocyte-dendritic cells in pre-treatment peripheral blood mononuclear cells were found in durable clinical benefit group . Also , higher CD83 , CD244 , IL-12 , and CD70 , which are hallmarks of dendritic cells and activated T cells , were discovered by plasma proteomics to be connected with enhanced outcomes , while chemoattractant of macrophage , CSF-1 , CCL3 , CCL4 , and IL-8 , were found to predict a worse prognosis . Furthermore , a multimodal model was constructed and validated for stratifying ES-SCLC into high or low risk to predict the immunotherapy efficacy . This study sheds light on harnessing local and systematic immune profiles to better stratify patients with ES-SCLC for immunotherapy and putative combinational treatment .
At advanced phases of atherosclerosis , the rupture and thrombogenesis of vulnerable plaques emerge as primary triggers for acute cardiovascular events and fatalities . Pathogenic infection such as periodontitis-associated Porphyromonas gingivalis ( Pg ) has been suspected of increasing the risks of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease , but its relationship with atherosclerotic plaque destabilization remains elusive . Here we demonstrated that the level of Pg-positive clusters positively correlated with the ratio of necrotic core area to total atherosclerotic plaque area in human clinical samples , which indicates plaque instability . In rabbits and Apoe ( -/- ) mice , Pg promoted atherosclerotic plaque necrosis and aggravated plaque instability by triggering oxidative stress , which led to macrophage necroptosis . This process was accompanied by the decreased protein level of forkhead box O3 ( FOXO3 ) in macrophages . The mechanistic dissection showed that Pg lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) evoked macrophage oxidative stress via the TLR4 signaling pathway , which subsequently activated MAPK/ERK-mediated FOXO3 phosphorylation and following degradation . While the gingipains , a class of proteases produced by Pg , could effectively hydrolyze FOXO3 in the cytoplasm of macrophages . Both of them decreased the nuclear level of FOXO3 , followed by the release of histone deacetylase 2 ( HDAC2 ) from the macrophage scavenger receptor 1 ( Msr1 ) promoter , thus promoting Msr1 transcription . This enhanced MSR1-mediated lipid uptake further amplified oxidative stress-induced necroptosis in lipid-laden macrophages . In summary , Pg exacerbates macrophage oxidative stress-dependent necroptosis , thus enlarges the atherosclerotic plaque necrotic core and ultimately promotes plaque destabilization .
DNA polymerase gamma ( POLgamma ) , responsible for mitochondrial DNA replication , consists of a catalytic POLgammaA subunit and two accessory POLgammaB subunits . Mutations in POLG , which encodes POLgammaA , lead to various mitochondrial diseases . We investigated the most common POLG mutations ( A467T , W748S , G848S , Y955C ) by characterizing human and mouse POLgamma variants . Our data reveal that these mutations significantly impair POLgamma activities , with mouse variants exhibiting milder defects . Cryogenic electron microscopy highlighted structural differences between human and mouse POLgamma , particularly in the POLgammaB subunit , which may explain the higher activity of mouse POLgamma and the reduced severity of mutations in mice . We further generated a panel of mouse models mirroring common human POLG mutations , providing crucial insights into the pathogenesis of POLG-related disorders and establishing robust models for therapeutic development . Our findings emphasize the importance of POLgammaB in modulating the severity of POLG mutations .
Stem cell-derived islet cell therapy can effectively treat type 1 diabetes , but its efficacy is hindered by low oxygen supply post-transplantation , particularly in subcutaneous spaces and encapsulation devices , leading to cell dysfunction . The response to hypoxia and effective strategies to alleviate its detrimental effects remain poorly understood . Here , we show that beta cells within stem cell-derived islets gradually undergo a decline in cell identity and metabolic function in hypoxia . This is linked to reduced expression of immediate early genes ( EGR1 , FOS , and JUN ) , which downregulates key beta cell transcription factors . We further identified genes important for maintaining beta cell fitness in hypoxia , with EDN3 as a potent player . Elevated EDN3 expression preserves beta cell identity and function in hypoxia by modulating genes involved in beta cell maturation , glucose sensing and regulation . These insights improve the understanding of hypoxia ' s impact on stem cell-derived islets , offering a potential intervention for clinical applications .
Glioblastoma remains a challenging indication for immunotherapy : the blood-brain barrier hampers accessibility for systemic treatments and the immunosuppressive microenvironment impedes immune attack . Intratumoral therapy with the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-12 ( IL-12 ) can revert immunosuppression but leakage into the circulation causes treatment-limiting toxicity . Here we engineer an IL-12Fc fusion cytokine with reduced binding to the neonatal Fc receptor FcRn . FcRn-silenced IL-12Fc avoids FcRn-mediated brain export , thus exhibits prolonged brain retention and reduced blood levels , which prevents toxicity . In murine glioblastoma , FcRn-silenced IL-12Fc induces more durable responses with negligible systemic cytokine exposure and boosts the efficacy of radio- and chemotherapy . It triggers anti-tumor responses independently of peripheral T cell influx or lymphopenia and leads to inflammatory polarization of the tumor microenvironment in patient-derived glioblastoma explants . FcRn-silencing of IL-12Fc may unlock the full potential of IL-12 for brain cancer therapy and could be further applied to containing the activity of other therapeutics targeting neurological diseases .
Immune system plays a crucial role in the physiological and pathological regulation of the cardiovascular system . The exploration history and milestones of immune system in cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) have evolved from the initial discovery of chronic inflammation in atherosclerosis to large-scale clinical studies confirming the importance of anti-inflammatory therapy in treating CVDs . This progress has been facilitated by advancements in various technological approaches , including multi-omics analysis ( single-cell sequencing , spatial transcriptome et al . ) and significant improvements in immunotherapy techniques such as chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) -T cell therapy . Both innate and adaptive immunity holds a pivotal role in CVDs , involving Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) signaling pathway , nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing proteins 1 and 2 ( NOD1/2 ) signaling pathway , inflammasome signaling pathway , RNA and DNA sensing signaling pathway , as well as antibody-mediated and complement-dependent systems . Meanwhile , immune responses are simultaneously regulated by multi-level regulations in CVDs , including epigenetics ( DNA , RNA , protein ) and other key signaling pathways in CVDs , interactions among immune cells , and interactions between immune and cardiac or vascular cells . Remarkably , based on the progress in basic research on immune responses in the cardiovascular system , significant advancements have also been made in pre-clinical and clinical studies of immunotherapy . This review provides an overview of the role of immune system in the cardiovascular system , providing in-depth insights into the physiological and pathological regulation of immune responses in various CVDs , highlighting the impact of multi-level regulation of immune responses in CVDs . Finally , we also discuss pre-clinical and clinical strategies targeting the immune system and translational implications in CVDs .
The platelet-derived growth factor receptor ( PDGFR ) family of receptor tyrosine kinases consists of two receptors , PDGFRalpha and PDGFRbeta , that homodimerize and heterodimerize upon ligand binding . Here , we tested the hypothesis that differential internalization and trafficking dynamics of the various PDGFR dimers underlie differences in downstream intracellular signaling and cellular behavior . Using a bimolecular fluorescence complementation approach , we demonstrated that PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers are rapidly internalized into early endosomes . We showed that PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimer activation does not induce downstream phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and significantly inhibits cell proliferation . Further , we identified MYO1D as a protein that preferentially binds PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers and demonstrated that knockdown of MYO1D leads to retention of PDGFRalpha/beta heterodimers at the plasma membrane , increased phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and increased cell proliferation . Collectively , our findings impart valuable insight into the molecular mechanisms by which specificity is introduced downstream of PDGFR activation to differentially propagate signaling and generate distinct cellular responses .
Multiplex tissue imaging enables single-cell spatial proteomics and transcriptomics but remains limited by incomplete molecular profiling , tissue loss , and probe failure . Here , we apply machine learning to impute single-cell protein abundance using multiplex tissue imaging data from a breast cancer cohort . We evaluate regularized linear regression , gradient-boosted trees , and deep learning autoencoders , incorporating spatial context to enhance imputation accuracy . Our models achieve mean absolute errors between 05-3 on a [0 , 1] scale , closely approximating ground truth values . Using imputed data , we classify single cells as pre- or post-treatment , demonstrating their biological relevance . These findings establish the feasibility of imputing missing protein abundance , highlight the advantages of spatial information , and support machine learning as a powerful tool for improving single-cell tissue imaging .
In spatial ' omics , highly confident molecular identifications are indispensable for the investigation of complex biology and for spatial biomarker discovery . However , current mass spectrometry imaging ( MSI ) -based spatial ' omics must compromise between data acquisition speed and biochemical profiling depth . Here , we introduce fast , label-free quantum cascade laser mid-infrared imaging microscopy ( QCL-MIR imaging ) to guide MSI to high-interest tissue regions as small as kidney glomeruli , cultured multicellular spheroid cores or single motor neurons . Focusing on smaller tissue areas enables extensive spatial lipid identifications by on-tissue tandem-MS employing imaging parallel reaction monitoring-Parallel Accumulation-Serial Fragmentation ( iprm-PASEF ) . QCL-MIR imaging-guided MSI allowed for unequivocal on-tissue elucidation of 157 sulfatides selectively accumulating in kidneys of arylsulfatase A-deficient mice used as ground truth concept and provided chemical rationales for improvements to ion mobility prediction algorithms . Using this workflow , we characterized sclerotic spinal cord lesions in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( EAE ) , a model of multiple sclerosis , and identified upregulation of inflammation-related ceramide-1-phosphate and ceramide phosphatidylethanolamine as markers of white matter lipid remodeling . Taken together , widely applicable and fast QCL-MIR imaging-based guidance of MSI ensures that more time is available for exploration and validation of new biology by default on-tissue tandem-MS analysis .
Single allelic mutations in the FOXG1 gene lead to FOXG1 syndrome ( FS ) . To understand the pathophysiology of FS , which vary depending on FOXG1 mutation types , patient-specific animal models are critical . Here , we report a patient-specific Q84Pfs heterozygous ( Q84Pfs-Het ) mouse model , which recapitulates various FS phenotypes across cellular , brain structural , and behavioral levels . Q84Pfs-Het cortex shows dysregulations of genes controlling cell proliferation , neuronal projection and migration , synaptic assembly , and synaptic vesicle transport . The Q84Pfs allele produces the N-terminal fragment of FOXG1 ( Q84Pfs protein ) in Q84Pfs-Het mouse brains , which forms intracellular speckles , interacts with FOXG1 full-length protein , and triggers the sequestration of FOXG1 to distinct subcellular domains . Q84Pfs protein promotes the radial glial cell identity and suppresses neuronal migration in the cortex . Our study uncovers the role of the FOXG1 fragment from FS-causing FOXG1 variants and identifies the genes involved in FS-like cellular and behavioral phenotypes , providing insights into the pathophysiology of FS .
Self-assembled peptide hydrogels developed from bioactive domains of extracellular matrix ( ECM ) have shown great capabilities to mimic the structural and functional aspects of ECM . In this direction , we explored the self-assembling potential of a minimalist bioactive sequence ( YWTD ) derived from one of the essential bridging proteins of ECM , i . e . , entactin . However , at physiological pH , the negative charge of the aspartate residue induced strong intermolecular repulsion that prevented the self-assembly of the peptide monomers . Interestingly , the peptide formed self-supporting hydrogels at a slightly acidic pH i . e . , pH 2 through surface charge neutralization , thereby minimizing the repulsive interaction . Since , we aim to explore its use in controlling cellular adhesion and proliferation , we utilized the buffering capacity of the media to adjust the pH of the gel to physiological levels . To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report on self-assembly of a novel bioactive sequence derived from the G3 domain of entactin protein . These hydrogels self-assembled at physiological pH displayed a nanofibrous structure with tuneable mechanical stiffness , which were biocompatible towards fibroblast cells . An improved cellular adhesion , and proliferation was evident within this novel matrix and thus proving it as suitable biomaterial with future potential in the field of biomedicine .
This study explores the potential of boron-doped baghdadite ( BAG ) powders incorporated into poly ( vinylidene fluoride ) ( PVDF ) -based membrane scaffolds for bone tissue engineering applications . The aim is to enhance the scaffolds ' microstructure , surface wettability , thermal behavior , mechanical properties , and biological performance . Composite scaffolds are fabricated by integrating the powders into the PVDF matrix , yielding scaffolds with enhanced material characteristics and functionality . The incorporation of the powders significantly enhances the hydrophilicity of the scaffolds , as evidenced by a notable reduction in contact angle measurements . Mechanical analyses demonstrate that the addition of boron-doped BAG powders reduces the tensile strength and elongation at the break of PVDF scaffolds , attribute to increased pore size , reduced crystallinity , and structural heterogeneity , though the values remain within the range of human cancellous bone . Furthermore , in vitro bioactivity studies reveal the superior apatite-forming ability of the composite scaffolds , indicating their enhanced potential for biomineralization . The results of the cellular adhesion assays indicate an enhanced affinity and proliferation of cells on the membrane scaffolds , which is indicative of improved biocompatibility . In conclusion , the developed PVDF-based membrane scaffolds , reinforce with BAG powders , show promise as effective alternatives to traditional bone graft materials , offering scalable and versatile solutions for regenerative medicine .
Sodium benzoate ( NaB ) is a commonly used food ingredient that is also found in cosmetics and medicines . Previous studies have demonstrated that long-term NaB intake has detrimental effects on human health , while its effects on bone mass remain unknown . In the present study , intragastric NaB administration was found to decrease bone mass and deteriorate bone microstructure in vivo , while prolonged NaB gavage further accelerated bone loss . The in vitro study revealed that NaB inhibited osteoblast differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and MC3T3-E1 cells . Mechanistically , RNA sequencing analysis elucidated that NaB greatly suppressed fibroblast growth factor 2 ( FGF2 ) expression . Further studies revealed that NaB inhibited p38/RUNX2 signaling transduction , which was downstream of FGF2 for modulating osteoblast differentiation . The rescue studies suggested that NaB inhibited RUNX2 expression and osteoblast differentiation through the p38/MAPK signaling pathway . Collectively , NaB accelerated bone loss by inhibiting osteoblast differentiation through downregulating FGF2/p38/RUNX2 signaling pathway . The present study revealed that the long-term intake of NaB-containing food increased the risk of bone loss and osteoporosis ( OP ) . Therefore , a reasonable oral intake of NaB-containing food is an important but convenient initiative for preventing OP . FAU - Wang , Zhonghao
A novel mercury ( II ) polymer with pendant dipicolylamine ( DPA ) chelators carrying Hg ( 2+ ) ions was prepared as a potential mass tag for mass cytometry ( MC ) applications . The polymer itself , with DP approximately 22 had a mixture of PEG ( provides stealth ) and PEG-azide groups attached to the pendant groups , with ca . 3 azide groups per polymer for antibody conjugation . The initial Hg-DPA complex had 2 Cl atoms attached to each Hg ( 2+ ) ion ( Cl-Hg-DPA ) . An approach to replace the two Hg-Cl bonds via ligand exchange reactions by treating the Hg-DPA polymer with monothiol ligands ( glutathione , cysteine , and thioglycolic acid ) led to a loss of Hg , while Hg polymers treated with dithiol ligands ( 2 , 3-dimercapto-1-propanol and 2 , 3-dimercapto-1-propanesulfonic acid sodium salt monohydrate ) led to polymers 2d and 2f , respectively , in which both polymers largely retained their Hg content . These polymers showed relatively low levels of nonspecific binding to suspensions of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) . Both polymers were conjugated to anti-CD8a via strain-promoted azide-alkyne coupling , and the conjugates were employed in a 10-plex assay of PBMCs along with Maxpar reagents . Polymer 2d-CD8a showed excellent specificity to target CD8a antigens , even at a low titer of 56 mug/mL , and the ability to differentiate CD8a T cells from other components of the PBMC sample . In contrast , polymer 2f-CD8a gave no Hg signal suggesting loss of Hg from the polymer during Ab conjugation or PBMC staining steps . Polymer 2d represents an important step forward in the development of Hg mass tags for MC . FAU - Wong , Edmond C N
All JNK isoforms play a specific role in various diseases . The role of the JNK2 isoform has so far received little attention compared to its JNK1 and JNK3 counterparts with JNK3 being a potential target for neurodegenerative diseases and an inhibitor with JNK1 bias being currently investigated in clinical trials . Using an iterative , structure-guided optimization approach starting from a reported reversible binding aminopyrazole-derived scaffold , novel highly potent JNK2/3 selective inhibitors were generated ( " ligand-first approach " ) . These reversible inhibitors were further transformed to covalent inhibitors by attaching an electrophilic warhead moiety , able to address a conserved cysteine side chain present in JNKs . Reversible and covalent inhibitors presented in this study show high JNK2/3 isoform selectivity and activity in cells . The covalently acting lead compound 56d shows good kinetic data with a k ( inact ) /K ( I ) ( JNK2 ) = 38 , 200 M ( -1 ) s ( -1 ) as well as cellular isoform selectivity and a clean kinome profile . FAU - Wydra , Valentin R
BACKGROUND : Escherichia coli has an extensive accessory genome , though its role in impacting patient mortality is unknown . METHODS : We performed whole genome sequencing with E . coli bloodstream infection isolates from inpatients at Duke University . Pan-genome analysis was used to identify flexible genomic islands associated with in-hospital attributable mortality ( death due to infection ) . The functions of the flexible genomic islands of interest were investigated with serum growth assays and bacterial-host cell interaction assays . RESULTS : We included 193 E . coli genomes . Two separate genomic islands were co-present within 41 ( 21% ) E . coli isolates and associated with increased attributable mortality ( 22% [9/41] ) vs . 11% [17/152] ) in an adjusted analysis ( Mortality odds ratio 0 ; 95% confidence interval 1-9 ; p=03 ) . The two genomic islands together contain genes homologous to a type III secretion system ( T3SS ) : 1 ) E . coli type III secretion system 2 ( ETT2 ) , encoding 35 genes homologous to a T3SS basal body and needle complex , and 2 ) an ETT2 accessory region ( ETT2-AR ) encoding six genes homologous to a T3SS needle tip , translocases , and adhesin . ETT2/ETT2-AR altered bacterial virulence through two mechanisms . First , ETT2/ETT2-AR increased resistance to complement-mediated growth restriction by inhibiting classical complement pathway activation . Second , ETT2/ETT2-AR influenced E . coli-host cell interactions by increasing adhesion to and death of mammalian cells . CONCLUSIONS : Genomic islands ETT2 and ETT2-AR are homologous to a T3SS , co-localize within specific E . coli lineages , associate with increased mortality in patients with E . coli bloodstream infection , and increase bacterial virulence through resistance to complement and enhanced host cell adhesion and death .
Cell-penetrating poly ( disulfides ) ( CPDs ) are promising siRNA delivery vectors , utilizing thiol-mediated uptake to avoid lysosomal retention . However , like other cationic vectors , CPDs require excess positive charge for vector/siRNA complexes stability , risking cytotoxicity . Additionally , serum protein adsorption can disrupt complexes , diminishing transfection efficiency . In this study , we designed a series of fluorinated CPDs ( F ( X ) -CPD-n ) to enhance siRNA delivery efficiency through the specific fluorophilic effect . Fluorination introduces unique hydrophobic and lipophobic characteristics , promoting phase separation in polar and non-polar environments . In vitro results demonstrated that moderate fluorination improved siRNA binding , cellular uptake , and transfection efficiency of the CPD-based vectors , while excessive fluorination hindered siRNA binding and increased cytotoxicity . Moreover , fluorination slightly altered the uptake mechanism , with most uptake still occurring via the thiol-mediated pathway . Importantly , fluorination enhanced serum tolerance capacity , maintaining effective cellular uptake and gene silencing capacity in serum-rich conditions . Subsequently , an optimized vector , F ( L ) -CPDs-30 , effectively delivered siPGX4 ( siRNA targeting glutathione peroxidase 4 ) to breast cancer cells , silencing GPX4 at both the protein and mRNA levels . F ( L ) -CPDs-30/siGPX4 exhibited significant anticancer activity in vitro and in vivo by inducing ferroptosis . These effects were attributed to efficient GPX4 silencing and GSH depletion via the disulfide backbone of CPDs . This work provides valuable insights into the development of thiol-mediated siRNA delivery vectors and offers a promising platform for siRNA-based ferroptosis induction in cancer therapy . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : Efficient cytosolic delivery remains a major challenge in siRNA-based therapeutics . In this study , we demonstrated that fluorinated cell-penetrating poly ( disulfide ) s ( CPDs ) , with optimal fluorine density , enhanced siRNA binding , cellular uptake , and transfection efficiency compared to unmodified CPDs . Fluorination also improved the serum tolerance capacity of CPDs . Moreover , the fluorinated CPDs predominantly entered cancer cells via a thiol-mediated pathway . The leading fluorinated CPD significantly outperformed both native CPDs and conventional transfection agents in silencing siPGX4 ( glutathione peroxidase 4 ) and inducing ferroptosis in vitro and in vivo . In addition to efficient GPX4 knockdown , GSH depletion through the CPD disulfide backbone further potentiated ferroptosis in breast cancer . This strategy presents a promising approach for advancing siRNA-based gene therapy .
PURPOSE : Preclinical studies have confirmed efficacy of ultraviolet C ( UVC ) light in managing superficial corneal infections . This study sought to establish if delivering UVC in pulsed form enhances antimicrobial efficacy compared to continuous delivery , and whether pulsed delivery in ocular tissue results in deeper penetration or introduces additional safety concerns . METHODS : This study compared antimicrobial efficacy , depth of penetration , and safety of continuous versus pulsed wave delivery of UVC ( 20 Hz , 50% duty cycle ) in three experimental setups . Firstly , efficacy was assessed using a simulated in vitro corneal wound model infected with bioluminescent P . aeruginosa , comparing matched-fluence , 0 to 120 s continuous wave versus 0 to 240 s pulsed wave exposures . Secondly , penetrability was evaluated in an ex vivo porcine corneal model ( 0 to 650 microm thickness ) . Lastly , safety was analyzed by immunohistochemistry to assess DNA photoproducts , cyclobutene pyrimidine dimers ( CPD ) , focusing on their spatial distribution and density after UVC exposure ( 579 mJ/cm ) . RESULTS : Comparable antimicrobial efficacy was observed for continuous and pulsed wave UVC ( 50% duty cycle ) for all exposure durations ( p > 05 ) , except the 40 s pulsed wave , which was more effective than the 20 s continuous wave ( p < 05 ) . Corneal UVC transmission was limited and comparable for both delivery modes ( all p > 05 ) . Immunohistochemistry confirmed CPD were confined to the superficial corneal epithelial layers , with no significant differences in depth or extent of CPD formation between pulsed and continuous wave delivery modes ( p > 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In in vitro and ex vivo testing , pulsed wave UVC demonstrated antimicrobial efficacy that was at least as good as continuous wave delivery , demonstrated comparable corneal depth penetration , and similar spatial distribution of CPD .
As new treatments for bacillus Calmette-Guerin ( BCG ) -unresponsive non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer ( NMIBC ) emerge , better methods are needed to guide therapeutic decisions . This study analyzed urine tumor DNA ( utDNA ) from patients treated with atezolizumab in the SWOG S1605 trial to determine whether utDNA profiling can stratify the risk of treatment failure . Urine samples were analyzed using the UroAmp assay at baseline and 3 mo from 89 and 77 patients , respectively . Only 13% of UroAmp-positive patients at baseline achieved a complete response at 6 mo compared with 71% of UroAmp-negative patients ( p < 001 ) . The 18-mo event-free survival ( EFS ) was significantly lower for UroAmp-positive patients at baseline ( 23% ) than for UroAmp-negative patients ( 51% ; hazard ratio [HR] 8 , p < 001 ) . Among patients with no clinical evidence of disease at 3 mo ( n = 51 ) , the 18-mo EFS was 38% for UroAmp-positive and 86% for UroAmp-negative ( HR 5 , p = 01 ) patients . These findings suggest that utDNA profiling at baseline and after 3 mo of treatment can help identify patients with BCG-unresponsive NMIBC who are less likely to benefit from systemic immunotherapy .
Transfer RNAs play a key role during protein synthesis by decoding genetic information at the translating ribosome . During their biosynthesis , tRNA molecules undergo numerous processing steps . Moreover , tRNAs represent the RNA class that carries the largest variety and highest relative number of chemical modifications . While our functional and mechanistic understanding of these processes is primarily based on studies in yeast , the findings on dynamic tRNA maturation can be translated to higher eukaryotes including humans , particularly regarding the biochemical characterization of the multitude of enzymes involved . In this review , we summarize current knowledge on the sequential hierarchy and interplay of various processing and modification steps for mitochondrial and cytoplasmic tRNA , as well as tRNA-like structures in eukaryotic cells . We also highlight recent structural advances that shed light on the function of enzyme-tRNA complexes .
Nimodipine is a L-type voltage gated calcium channel blocker commonly given to patients after a sub-arachnoid hemorrhage . It is known to dilate cerebral arteries and affect brain pericytes that express voltage gated calcium channels . Here , we systemically administered nimodipine ( 1 mg/kg ; i . p . ) and measured brain pericyte calcium transients and single-vessel hemodynamics in the brains of mice by two-photon microscopy . We find that nimodipine reduces calcium transients in all types of pericytes , from ensheathing to thin-strand cells , at different locations in the vascular network . This induces local vasodilation of vessels closer to penetrating arterioles but decreases blood cell velocity . These vascular consequences are due to systemic nimodipine effects because direct brain application of nimodipine caused blood cell velocity to increase . Nimodipine treatment also reduced further dilation during neurovascular coupling throughout the vascular network . Overall , this suggests that nimodipine can change cerebrovascular hemodynamics by altering pericyte physiology and these are important considerations for the clinical use of this drug .
INTRODUCTION : The National Disease Registration Service ( NDRS ) collects and curates data on cancer diagnoses in England . This study analyzed testicular cancer ( TC ) data from 2013 to PATIENT AND METHODS : Data were extracted from the NDRS " Get Data Out " database . The incidence per year , routes to diagnosis ( RTD ) , treatment modalities and overall survival were analyzed . RESULTS : Between 2013 to 2020 , 15 , 921 TC were diagnosed . The majority of cases were seminomatous germ cell tumors ( SGCT ) ( 4% ) , followed by nonseminomatous germ cell tumors ( NSGCT ) ( 6% ) . The annual incidence remained relatively stable , with 2010 cases in 2013 and 2023 cases in The majority of patients were >/=30 years ( 4% ) . Most cases ( 64% ) were diagnosed with stage I disease , with a rising incidence observed in stage I NSGCTs . The primary RTD was the 2-week-wait ( 2ww ) cancer pathway ( 1% ) , followed by GP referrals ( 7% ) and emergency presentations ( 9% ) . A total of 4% of TC were treated with surgery , with or without chemotherapy , regardless of the histological subtype . Stage II-III disease more commonly underwent surgery combined with chemotherapy compared to stage I disease ( 7% vs . 8% , P < . 0001 ) . The 12 , 24 , and 60-month survival was 0% , 9% , and 6% respectively . Stage I disease and SGCT were associated with better survival outcomes ( P < . 001 ) . Missing data from this dataset is a limitation . CONCLUSION : The incidence of TC in England is relatively stable . Most TC were diagnosed via the 2ww cancer pathway . Surgery was the primary treatment modality and survival rates have remained relatively stable over time . Real-world data provide a cost-effective , time-efficient source of information to guide disease epidemiology , diagnostics , treatments , and outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Accumulating evidence suggests that glial mechanisms are pivotal in regulating chronic pain . Our previous findings revealed that the interactions between spinal microglia and astrocytes are crucial for burn-induced pain hypersensitivity . However , the mechanisms underlying burn-induced peripheral sensitisation remain incompletely understood . METHODS : Sensory neurone-satellite glial cell ( SGC ) interactions within peripheral dorsal root ganglia were investigated using in vitro and in vivo experiments . Behavioural tests were conducted to evaluate the therapeutic potential of targeting peripheral sensitisation mechanisms for burn pain management . RESULTS : Burn injury upregulated calcitonin gene-related peptide ( CGRP ) expression in sensory neurones ( 5-fold ; P=013 ) through transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 ( TRPV1 ) channels . Pharmacological blockade of the TRPV1/CGRP signalling pathway effectively attenuated burn-induced mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia . Additionally , neurone-derived CGRP triggered SGC activation ( from 8% pre-injury to 6% at day 5 post-injury ) , concomitant with enhanced gap junction-mediated SGC coupling ( from 7% pre-injury to 5% at day 5 post-injury ) . Furthermore , chemokine expression ( particularly CXCL1 ) in SGCs was elevated after burn injury , which potentiated sensory neurone excitability and exacerbated pain hypersensitivity . Blocking SGC coupling exerted potent analgesic effects in this burn pain model . CONCLUSIONS : A novel neurone-SGC interaction mechanism drives burn-induced peripheral sensitisation , providing translational implications for burn pain therapeutics .
The IgM-related peripheral neuropathies ( IgM-PN ) are a group of chronic disorders characterized by the presence of monoclonal IgM that may be associated with one of several diseases affecting the peripheral nerves . In many cases , there is a monoclonal IgM associated with activity against neural targets , leading to progressive peripheral nerve demyelination . Neurological symptoms in this setting can also result from direct invasion of the peripheral or central nervous system by lymphoplasmacytic cells ( neurolymphomatosis and Bing-Neel syndrome respectively ) or via other mechanisms ( for example AL amyloid deposition or cryoglobulinemic vasculitis ) . There is an expanding array of treatment options , but high-quality data are sparse . Diagnostic accuracy is important and needs collaboration between hematologists and neuromuscular specialists to determine the sequence and intensity of investigations . Appropriate causal attribution to the IgM disorder is essential to enable the correct therapeutic intervention . The aims of treatment intervention should be clear and realistic . Consistent and clinically meaningful measures are needed to capture treatment success . Despite therapeutic advances , many patients experience persistent disability , highlighting the need for further research .
PAK4 , the most studied member of group II PAK , plays crucial roles in multiple cancer cell signaling pathways . To date , only PAK4 inhibitor KPT9274 is under clinical development with no detailed binding mechanism . The PROTAC technology offers a new chance to study PAK4 by selective protein degradation . Here , we report the development of CPS-021 , a selective PAK4 degrader derived from our previously reported compound CPL-042 conjugated to pomalidomide . CPS-021 induced selective degradation of PAK4 with DC = 50 nM and exhibited significant antimigratory and invasive activity . The A549-luc lung metastasis in vivo model demonstrated that CPS-021 effectively inhibited the invasion and metastasis of tumor cells in nude mice . Our findings provide evidence that the selective PAK4 degrader exhibits significant pharmacological effects in suppressing cancer cell migration and invasion . These results support the further development of CPS-021 as a valuable tool compound for conducting in-depth biological investigations of group II PAKs . FAU - Wang , Hanxun
Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide , remains a significant clinical challenge despite advances in immune checkpoint inhibitors therapy , with drug resistance persisting as a major obstacle . Palmitoylation , a critical post-translational modification ( PTM ) primarily catalyzed by palmitoyltransferases of the zinc finger DHHC-type ( ZDHHC ) , has recently demonstrated important implications in NSCLC . This review aims to elucidate the mechanisms and clinical potential of ZDHHC-mediated protein palmitoylation in NSCLC progression and immune escape . . FAU - Chen , Wangcheng
BACKGROUND : Meningeal metastasis ( MM ) is a form of malignant metastasis where tumor cells spread from the primary site to the pia mater , dura mater , arachnoid , subarachnoid space , and other cerebrospinal fluid compartments . Lung cancer is one of the most common malignant tumor types with MM . MM not only signifies that the lung cancer has progressed to an advanced stage but also leads to a range of severe clinical symptoms due to meningeal involvement . Currently , the risk factors associated with the development of MM are not fully elucidated . The aim of this study was to investigate the risk factors for MM in patients with lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) who underwent non-surgical interventions , in order to identify LUAD patients at high risk for MM . METHODS : This retrospective study analyzed the clinical data of patients diagnosed with LUAD at the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University from January 2020 to July Missing data were imputed using multiple imputation methods , and risk factors were identified through LASSO , univariate , and multivariate Logistic regression analyses . RESULTS : A total of 170 patients with LUAD were included in this study and divided into two groups : 87 patients with MM and 83 patients without MM . Univariate and multivariate Logistic regression analyses revealed that younger age at diagnosis ( P=004 ) , presence of the epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) L858R gene mutation ( P=008 ) , and concurrent liver metastasis at baseline ( P=004 ) were independent risk factors for developing MM in LUAD patients who did not undergo surgical intervention . Conversely , higher baseline globulin levels ( P=039 ) and the presence of the anaplastic lymphoma kinase ( ALK ) gene mutation ( P=040 ) were associated with a reduced risk of MM development . CONCLUSIONS : Age at diagnosis , EGFR L858R mutation status , ALK gene mutation status , concurrent liver metastasis , globulin levels at baseline were significantly associated with the risk of developing MM in patients with LUAD patients who did not undergo surgical intervention . For patients diagnosed at a younger age , carrying the EGFR L858R mutation , or presenting with baseline liver metastasis , early implementation of tertiary prevention strategies for MM is crucial . Regular monitoring of MM status should be conducted in these high-risk groups . FAU - Yue , Yi
BACKGROUND : Lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) is the predominant subtype of non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . Damage-specific DNA binding protein 1 ( DDB1 ) , as a core protein of the CUL4-DDB1 ubiquitin ligase complex , is involved in the regulation of DNA damage repair , epigenetic modification , and cell cycle checkpoint activation . While the involvement of DDB1 in tumour progression through DNA repair and RNA transcriptional regulation has been reported , its expression and role in LUAD remain to be elucidated . This study aims to investigate the expression and role of DDB1 in LUAD . METHODS : The expression , clinicopathological features and prognosis of DDB1 in LUAD were analysed using databases such as UALCAN , Kaplan-Meier Plotter and GEPIA ; The interaction network and enriched functional pathways were constructed by GeneMANIA and Metascape ; the correlation between DDB1 and immune cells by combining with TISIDB infiltration was evaluated , and the clustering results of cell subtypes and the expression of DDB1 in different immune cell subpopulations were analysed by single-cell sequencing ; finally , tissue microarrays were used to further verify the expression and prognostic value of DDB1 in LUAD . RESULTS : The mRNA and protein expression of DDB1 in LUAD tissues were significantly higher than those in normal tissues ( P<01 ) , and the high expression correlated with later clinical stage ( P<001 ) , lymph node metastasis ( P<001 ) and poor prognosis ( P<001 ) . Functional enrichment showed that DDB1 was involved in DNA repair and RNA transcriptional regulation , and TISIDB evaluation revealed that DDB1 was negatively correlated with the expression level of immune cells , suggesting the potential regulation of the immune microenvironment . Single cell analysis showed that DDB1 was mainly expressed in T cells , alveolar macrophages and dendritic cells . Tissue microarrays confirmed that overall survival was shorter in the DDB1 high expression group ( P<001 ) , and Cox multifactorial analysis showed that DDB1 was an independent predictor of LUAD prognosis . CONCLUSIONS : DDB1 is highly expressed in LUAD , which is associated with poor prognosis , and is closely related to tumor immune cell infiltration , and is involved in tumourigenesis and development through DNA repair and RNA transcriptional regulation . DDB1 can be used as a potential prognostic marker and therapeutic target for LUAD . FAU - Zou , Xinkai
The remarkable cell diversity of multicellular organisms relies on the ability of multipotent progenitor cells to generate distinct cell types at the right times and locations during embryogenesis . A key question is how progenitors establish competence to respond to the different environmental signals required to produce specific cell types at critical developmental time points . We addressed this in the mouse developing forebrain , where neural progenitor cells must switch from producing neurons to making oligodendrocytes in response to increased Sonic hedgehog ( SHH ) signaling during late embryogenesis . We show that progenitor responses to SHH are regulated by Notch signaling , thus permitting proper timing of the neuron-oligodendrocyte switch . Notch activity epigenetically primes genes associated with the oligodendrocyte lineage and SHH pathway , enabling amplified transcriptional responses to endogenous SHH and robust oligodendrogenesis . These results reveal a critical role for Notch in facilitating progenitor competence states and influencing cell fate transitions at the epigenetic level .
This study investigates the radiobiology of peptide receptor radionuclide therapy ( PRRT ) using clinically relevant cancer cell lines by developing a framework for realistic cellular dosimetry in 2- and 3-dimensional cluster-forming configurations . Methods : The radiobiologic responses of GOT1 and NCI-H69 tumor cell lines to PRRT and external beam radiotherapy ( EBRT ) were compared . Viability at 7 d and cell death at multiple time points were assessed . Image-based multicellular dosimetry models were developed to reflect in vitro exposure complexity and were compared with traditional approaches . Results : The PRRT absorbed dose in suspension was dominated by medium during incubation and by a cross-dose within small clusters after incubation . Our findings reveal that traditional dosimetry can underestimate absorbed doses by up to 90% in plated setups and overlooks dose heterogeneity , with initial dose rates varying by up to 3-fold based on cluster size and cell arrangement . The maximum relative biologic effectiveness of PRRT compared with EBRT for loss of viability at 7 d was 43 +/- 07 for NCI-H69 cells and 22 +/- 02 for GOT1 cells . NCI-H69 cells showed greater resistance to PRRT-induced cell death than to EBRT , whereas GOT1 cells exhibited similar cell death levels for both treatments , albeit with different dose-response dynamics . Conclusion : PRRT requires on average an absorbed dose 3 times higher than EBRT to achieve equivalent effects in vitro . Traditional dosimetry overestimates the relative biologic effectiveness by underestimating the absorbed dose .
Peritoneal metastasis of colorectal cancer is the second most common metastatic pattern after liver metastasis , clinically common and associated with a poor prognosis . Refractory subtypes such as mucinous adenocarcinoma , signet-ring cell carcinoma , and BRAF V600E-mutated colorectal cancers account for a relatively high proportion in peritoneal metastasis . While previous diagnosis and treatment faced significant challenges , recent advances in new technologies and evolving therapeutic concepts have achieved progress in management . Many patients with colorectal cancer peritoneal metastasis have obtained favorable treatment outcomes , though numerous challenges persist . This article provides an in-depth analysis of current status and advancements in the diagnosis and treatment of colorectal cancer peritoneal metastasis , examines existing clinical difficulties and unresolved issues , and explores the application of advanced technologies in clinical practice . Through promoting individualized , precise , and standardized treatment concepts , we aim to enhance survival benefits for more patients . FAU - Wang , J
The high incidence and mortality rates of gastric cancer pose a significant burden on human health and public health systems . Peritoneal metastasis is one of the main routes of metastasis in gastric cancer , and patients with this condition have poor prognosis . With advancements in medicine and sociology , the concept of integrated medicine emerged in the late 1980s . It emphasizes treating patients as holistic entities , integrating various medical fields multidimensionally , and combining medicine with other fields . This article organizes the management of gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis around the core concept of " Prevention , Screening , Diagnosis , Treatment , and Rehabilitation " : Prevention relies on standardized tumor-free surgical techniques and intraoperative interventions . Screening involves early detection of peritoneal metastasis through integrated technologies . Diagnosis combines multiple methods , including laparoscopic exploration with cytological and histopathological examination , imaging studies , peritoneal fluid cytology , and artificial intelligence . Treatment encompasses comprehensive strategies such as intraperitoneal and systemic chemotherapy , cytoreductive surgery combined with hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy , pressurized intraperitoneal aerosolized chemotherapy , dendritic cell vaccines combined with nivolumab , and supportive care for managing ascites , malignant bowel obstruction , and nutritional support . This integrated medical perspective offers new insights into the management of gastric cancer peritoneal metastasis . FAU - Li , B W
Friedreich ataxia ( FA ) is an autosomal recessive disease characterized by progressive damage to the nervous system and severe cardiac abnormalities . The disease is caused by a GAA*TTC triplet repeat expansion in the first intron of the FXN gene , which results in epigenetic repression of FXN transcription and reduction in FXN ( frataxin ) protein which results in mitochondrial dysfunction . Factors and pathways that promote FXN repression represent potential therapeutic targets whose inhibition would restore FXN transcription and frataxin protein levels . Here , we performed a candidate-based RNAi screen to identify kinases , a highly druggable class of proteins , that when knocked down upregulate FXN expression . Using this approach , we identified Rho kinase ROCK1 as a critical factor required for FXN repression . ShRNA-mediated knockdown of ROCK1 , or the related kinase ROCK2 , increases FXN mRNA and frataxin protein levels in FA patient-derived induced pluripotent stem cells ( iPSCs ) and differentiated neurons and cardiomyocytes to levels observed in normal cells . We demonstrate that small molecule ROCK inhibitors , including the FDA-approved drug belumosudil and fasudil , reactivate FXN expression in cultured FA iPSCs , neurons , cardiomyocytes , and FA patient primary fibroblasts , and ameliorate the characteristic mitochondrial defects in these cell types . Remarkably , treatment of transgenic FA mice of both sexes with belumosudil or fasudil upregulates FXN expression , ameliorates the mitochondrial defects in the brain and heart tissues , and improves motor coordination and muscle strength . Collectively , our study identifies ROCK kinases as critical repressors of FXN expression and provides preclinical evidence that FDA approved ROCK inhibitors may be repurposed for treatment of FA . Significance Statement Friedreich ataxia is a debilitating disorder caused by epigenetic repression of the frataxin ( FXN ) gene , leading to neurodegeneration and cardiomyopathy . Through an RNA interference screen , we identified ROCK1 and ROCK2 kinases as critical repressors of FXN expression , making them promising therapeutic targets for upregulating FXN in patient-derived cells . Treatment with small-molecule ROCK inhibitors , including the FDA-approved drug belumosudil and clinically advanced fasudil , restores frataxin levels , alleviates mitochondrial defects , and improves disease phenotypes in cells and animal models . These findings establish ROCK kinases as targets for Friedreich ataxia therapy and open new avenues for repurposing existing ROCK inhibitors , warranting clinical exploration .
The suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) serves as the central circadian clock in mammals , coordinating daily rhythms in both behavior and physiology . In the SCN , gastrin-releasing peptide ( GRP ) -producing neurons ( GRPNs ) are predominantly located in the core region , suggesting their possible involvement in photic entrainment . However , the specific contribution of GRPNs to the regulation of circadian rhythms remains poorly understood . This study utilized a Cre-driver mouse line , Grp-iCre knock-in ( KI ) mice , in which Cre recombinase is exclusively expressed in GRPNs , allowing the selective manipulation of SCN GRPNs to investigate their characteristics and functional roles in circadian regulation . All experiments were conducted in adult male mice . Anatomical tracing revealed that SCN GRPNs primarily project to the thalamus and hypothalamus , whereas input mapping demonstrated that SCN GRPNs receive most synaptic inputs from within the SCN . Behavioral analyses revealed that neither GRP deficiency nor ablation of SCN GRPNs significantly affected circadian locomotor activity rhythms or photic entrainment . However , chemogenetic stimulation of the SCN GRPNs is sufficient to induce phase shifts in behavioral rhythms . Additionally , calcium imaging with fiber photometry indicated that SCN GRPNs quickly responded to photic stimulation , with increased neural activity following retinal exposure to white light . These findings suggest that SCN GRPNs play a role in photic entrainment , albeit potentially redundant with other neuronal populations such as vasoactive intestinal peptide-producing neurons . Significance Statement The suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) functions as the central circadian clock in mammals , synchronizing internal rhythms with the external light-dark cycle . Among its diverse cell types , gastrin-releasing peptide ( GRP ) -producing neurons ( GRPNs ) have been implicated in light-based entrainment , but their specific roles remained unclear . Using targeted genetic tools , we demonstrated that these neurons respond rapidly to retinal light stimulation and , when artificially activated , can induce phase shifts in behavioral rhythms . However , eliminating these neurons does not disrupt circadian behavior or molecular clock rhythms , indicating functional redundancy within the SCN network . Our findings clarify the modulatory-but non-essential-role of GRPNs in light-induced entrainment and underscore the complexity and resilience of circadian circuit organization .
Evolutionary rescue occurs when a population , facing a sudden environmental change that would otherwise lead to extinction , adapts through beneficial mutations , allowing it to recover and persist . A prime example of evolutionary rescue is the ability of cancer to survive exposure to treatment . One evolutionary mechanism by which a population of cancer cells can adapt to chemotherapy is aneuploidy . Aneuploid cancer cells can be more fit in an environment altered by anti-cancer drugs , in part because aneuploidy may disrupt the pathways targeted by the drugs . Indeed , aneuploidy is highly prevalent in tumors , and some anti-cancer drugs fight cancer by increasing chromosomal instability . Here , we model the impact of aneuploidy on the fate of a population of cancer cells . We use multi-type branching processes to approximate the probability that a tumor survives drug treatment as a function of the initial tumor size , the rates at which aneuploidy and other beneficial mutations occur , and the growth rates of the drug-sensitive and drug-resistant cells . We also investigate the effect of the pre-existent aneuploid cells on the probability of evolutionary rescue . Finally , we estimate the tumor ' s mean recurrence time to revert to its initial size following treatment and evolutionary rescue . We propose that aneuploidy can play an essential role in the relapse of smaller secondary tumors .
SNP heritability ( h2snp ) is defined as the proportion of phenotypic variance explained by genotyped SNPs and is believed to be a lower bound of heritability ( h ) , being equal to it if all causal variants are genotyped . Despite the simple intuition behind h2snp , its interpretation and equivalence to h2 is unclear , particularly in the presence of admixture and assortative mating . Here we use analytical theory and simulations to describe the behavior of h2 and three widely used random-effect estimators of h2snp -- Genome-wide restricted maximum likelihood , Haseman-Elston regression , and LD score regression -- in admixed populations . We show that h2snp estimates can be biased in admixed populations , even if all causal variants are genotyped and in the absence of confounding due to shared environment . This is largely because admixture generates directional LD , which contributes to the genetic variance , and therefore to heritability . Random-effect estimators of h2snp , because they assume that SNP effects are independent , do not capture the contribution , which can be positive or negative depending on the genetic architecture , leading to under- or over-estimates of h2snp relative to h For the same reason , estimates of local ancestry heritability ( h2gamma ) are also biased in the presence of directional LD . We describe this bias in h2snp and h2gamma as a function of admixture history and the genetic architecture of the trait , clarifying their interpretation and implication for genome-wide association studies and polygenic prediction in admixed populations .
RNA-binding proteins ( RBPs ) are a diverse class of proteins that interact with their target RNA molecules to regulate gene expression at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels . RBPs contribute to almost all aspects of RNA processing with sequence-specific , structure-specific , and nonspecific binding modes . Advances in our understanding of the mechanisms of RBP-mediated regulatory networks consisting of DNAs , RNAs , and protein complexes and the association between these networks and human diseases have been made very recently . Here , we discuss the " unconventional " functions of RBPs in transcriptional regulation by focusing on the cutting-edge investigations of chromatin-associated RBPs ( ChRBPs ) . We briefly introduce examples of how ChRBPs influence the genomic features and molecular structures at the level of transcription . In addition , we focus on the post-transcriptional functions of various RBPs that regulate the biogenesis , transportation , stability control , and translation ability of circular RNA molecules ( circRNAs ) . Lastly , we raise several questions about the clinical significance and potential therapeutic utility of disease-relevant RBPs .
We begin by discussing some historical ideas about the natural dynamics of living organisms and their complex states , from the very transient to the very persistent . We classify ultradian rhythms as being more important than most oscillatory behaviour in their distinctive properties . Then we summarise rhythmicity in three yeasts and five representative protist species . Recent discoveries about the single-celled photosynthetic alga Chlamydomonas reinhardii are then discussed as revealed by computer-controlled semi-continuous monitoring : automatic periodic measurement of the rate of phototaxis and chlorophyll a content over extended times for up to 12 days . Methodological approaches for analysing time series are discussed , including the recently developed ' GaMoSEC ' procedure , providing published references to the detection and understanding of the complex behaviour of natural systems . Finally , we conclude by summarising the general significance of ultradian rhythms to the vital aspects of the biological timekeeping of coherent functionality of living systems from single-cell organisms to humans from their healthy to declining states .
Bacteria have evolved several different biochemical pathways to either export proteins of all shapes and sizes out of the cell cytoplasm , or to secrete those proteins into the extracellular environment . Many bacterial protein secretion systems have evolutionary links to systems used by bacteriophage to move macromolecules across membranes . The Type 10 Secretion System ( T10SS ) was identified in gram-negative bacteria and comprises genes that bear striking sequence similarities to those found within phage lysis cassettes . The minimum components of a T10SS are an integral membrane holin-like protein together with a peptidoglycan hydrolase . Here , we review recent research in Serratia spp . , Salmonella spp , Yersinia spp , and gram-positive Clostridioides spp . , and consider the evidence for different T10SS mechanisms ranging from a controlled release of proteins into the environment , to stochastic altruistic lysis of specialised populations of cells .
Dehalococcoides strains grow obligately by respiration with hydrogen as an electron donor and halogenated compounds as terminal electron acceptors , catalysed by a single membrane-integrated protein supercomplex . Many insights have been gained into the respiratory complex based on physiological experiments , biochemical analyses , genome sequencing , and proteomics . Recent data acquired from activity tests with deuterated water and whole cells revealed the mode of energy conservation by this respiratory complex . The data shows that the proton required for periplasmic dehalogenation originates from inside the cell , suggesting an electrogenic protonation of the electron acceptor , while two protons are released into the periplasm by hydrogen oxidation . This surprisingly simple mechanism of pmf generation aligns with the subunit composition of the respiratory complex , the orientation of the subunits in the membrane , the absence of quinones as electron mediators , the rigidity of the cell membrane , as evidenced by its phospholipid fatty acid composition , and with proton channels formed by protonatable amino acid residues identified in the AlphaFold2-predicted structure of one of the membrane-spanning subunits . The respiration model is characterised by : ( i ) electrogenic protonation of the electron acceptor ; ( ii ) reliance on a single protein complex for pmf generation without quinones ; ( iii ) lack of transmembrane cytochromes ; ( iv ) presence of both redox-active centres on the same side of the membrane , both facing the periplasm ; and ( v ) restriction of the electron flow to periplasmic subunits of the respiratory complex . This type of respiration may represent an ancestral , quinone-free mechanism , offering inspiring new biotechnological applications .
The pathogenic mechanisms of chronic kidney disease-induced osteoporosis are not well understood and might involve metabolic alterations and apoptosis of osteocytes . In this issue , Hsu et al . present experimental work in uremic mice and cultured mouse osteoblasts showing that impaired mitochondrial function and mitophagy in osteocytes contribute to chronic kidney disease-associated osteoporosis . They investigate new therapeutic approaches to improve mitochondrial function in the setting of increased uremic toxin levels .
RATIONALE : Bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome ( BOS ) limits long-term survival after lung transplantation ( LuTx ) and may be triggered by infections . As immunoglobulin ( Ig ) A is crucial to ensure adequate mucosal immunity , we explored whether IgA-related mucosal immunity is impaired in BOS . METHODS : Sixty LuTx recipients from the COLT cohort were retrospectively included . All participants were in stable condition within the first year post-transplant . At 5 years post-LuTx , 30 remained stable and 30 had developed BOS . Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid ( BALF ) and sera collected pre-transplant and at 6 ( M6 ) and 12 months ( M12 ) post-transplant were assessed for monomeric IgA , secretory ( S ) -IgA , secretory component ( SC ) and cytokine profiling . Second , bronchiolar polymeric Ig receptor ( pIgR ) expression and subepithelial IgA-producing B-cell numbers were compared across graft tissue samples from 54 LuTx recipients classified as stable , pre-BOS , BOS or end-stage BOS . RESULTS : S-IgA levels in BALF decreased between M6 and M12 ( p=0001 ) and were reduced in BOS patients at M12 ( p=0018 ) . Patients with lower S-IgA levels had higher infection rates . BOS patients exhibited elevated SC levels in serum ( p<01 ) . Both reduced S-IgA in BALF and increased SC in serum were associated with higher risk of BOS . Lastly , a reduction in bronchiolar pIgR expression was observed in BOS patients ( p=0001 ) , that paralleled BOS severity . CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates an early impairment of mucosal IgA immunity in LuTx patients , which was linked to the later development of BOS , suggesting that IgA-related markers may serve as early predictors of BOS onset .
RATIONALE : : Prolonged exposure to airborne particulate matter ( PM ) is associated with emphysema and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) ; however , the precise underlying mechanism remains unclear . OBJECTIVES : In a previous high-throughput screen , we identified inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 4 ( ITIH4 ) as a biomarker of long-term PM exposure . We hypothesized that ITIH4 is implicated in PM-related emphysema . METHODS : We investigated the association between ITIH4 expression and ambient PM exposure through a clinical cohort analysis ( 220 patients with COPD and 61 healthy participants ) and in vitro studies . MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS : The COPD cohort studies revealed significant correlations between emphysema severity , ambient PM exposure , and serum ITIH4 levels . In primary small airway epithelial cells from COPD patients with low basal levels of ITIH4 , exposure to PM and oxidative stress led to increased apoptosis . However , ITIH4 overexpression significantly inhibited oxidative stress-induced apoptosis in normal and COPD airway epithelial cells . Acute exposure to hydrogen peroxide resulted in the rapid degradation of ITIH4 protein with no effect on transcriptional level , although ITIH4 gene expression is downregulated in the lung tissue of patients with COPD . A human apoptosis antibody array revealed that ITIH4 overexpression attenuated hydrogen peroxide-induced apoptotic signaling . Furthermore , extracellular ITIH4 protein confers cytoprotective functions in cells exposed to PM or oxidative stress . Mechanistically , ITIH4 attenuated oxidative stress-induced JNK activation and beta-catenin decrease . A deficiency of ITIH4 exacerbated the effects of oxidative stress . CONCLUSIONS : We identified a novel pathogenetic mechanism involving ITIH4 , where chronic exposure to air pollution induces or promotes emphysema .
BACKGROUND : To reach their full potential in cancer therapy , immune cells engineered with synthetic constructs must achieve the challenging dual objectives of potency and selectivity to overcome the key obstacle : non-specific cytotoxicity . These problems are especially challenging for solid tumor therapy , where antigen tissue specificity , accessibility , and tumor microenvironment are problematic . Cells engineered with receptors that act as synthetic logic gates promise to address the issue of tumor specificity by targeting antigen profiles rather than single antigens . Nevertheless , there are limits to the potency benefit that can be achieved at the level of the antigen-targeting receptors . One approach to enhance potency beyond the acute sensitivity of receptor activation is to co-opt a major source of ancillary stimulation in the normal immune response , cytokine receptors . METHODS : Enhancing CAR-T efficacy with engineered onboard cytokines , often referred to as " armoring " , is one such approach to boost potency . However , such constructs run the risk of overriding tumor selectivity and eroding the therapeutic window . Here we design and test onboard cytokine constructs that enhance potency and preserve selectivity of a synthetic NOT logic gate construct called Tmod , potentially addressing some of the major challenges in oncology in a single synthetic design . RESULTS : We focused especially on a module encoding membrane-tethered interleukin ( IL ) -12 , a construct that significantly enhances Tmod antigen-dependent long-term proliferation and potency both in vitro and in vivo , without compromising the NOT gate selectivity . Notably , three substantially different in vivo models , including one that employs mouse surrogate antigens , were used to assess preclinical dose-dependent efficacy and safety . Together , these studies make a strong case for the robustness of the design . CONCLUSIONS : We conclude that the mem-IL-12 module can be combined with multiple Tmod constructs to boost efficacy and persistence while preserving the on-tumor selectivity .
BACKGROUND : Immune checkpoint inhibitors and cytokines have revolutionized tumor treatment but are still limited by dose-dependent toxicity and efficacy . In situ vaccine platforms based on intelligent microbes are promising therapeutic strategies that sustainably deliver drugs locally without causing severe systemic risks . METHODS : In this study , we have innovatively engineered a non-pathogenic , adjuvant-acting Mycobacterium smegmatis ( M . smegmatis ) that co-expresses a programmed cell death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) inhibitor and an interleukin-15 ( IL-15 ) cytokine complex containing the interleukin-15 receptor alpha ( IL-15Ralpha ) sushi domain ( Ms-PDL1scfv-IL15 ) . RESULTS : We demonstrate that the fusion protein of PD-L1 inhibitor and IL-15 cytokine systemically binds mouse or human PD-L1 and maintains IL-15 stimulatory activity . The bifunctional Ms-PDL1scfv-IL15 overcomes resistance to PD-L1 blockade , recruits numerous immune cells in situ , induces dendritic cells ( DCs ) maturation , initiates the M1 antitumor polarization of macrophages , increases the proliferation and activation of natural killer cells and tumor-infiltrating CD8 ( + ) T cells , inhibits regulatory T cells , elicits abscopal effects , stimulates rapid tumor regression , prevents metastasis , and leads to long-term survival in several syngeneic tumor mouse models . We also found that the combination of Ms-PDL1scfv-IL15 with granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( GM-CSF ) synergistically stunted the tumor progress and stasis . Moreover , intratumoral administration of Ms-PDL1scfv-IL15 can capture tumor antigen fragments , and boost DCs presentation of antigens , which remarkably initiates tumor antigen-specific immune response , leading to durable tumor regression and specific antitumor immunity . CONCLUSION : In summary , the engineered M . smegmatis can recruit and activate innate and adaptive antitumor immune responses , offering a potent cancer immunotherapy strategy to treat patients with cold tumors or resistance to checkpoint blockade .
BACKGROUND : Programmed cell death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) expression is used in treatment decision-making for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer , determining if immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICI ) are recommended . Patient selection for ICI treatment can be improved by incorporating the host response . We developed and carried out multiple independent validations of a blood-based test designed to stratify outcomes for patients treated with atezolizumab . METHODS : A mass spectrometry-based test was developed from a cohort of patients treated with atezolizumab and validated in two clinical trials ( n=269 , 823 ) comparing atezolizumab with docetaxel . The test classifies patients as Good or Poor indicating better or worse outcomes , respectively . The prognostic and predictive power of the test was assessed and evaluated within PD-L1 subgroups . Protein enrichment methods were used to investigate the association of test classification with biological processes . RESULTS : Approximately 50% of patients were assigned to each classification in all three cohorts . When treated with atezolizumab , the Good subgroup had superior outcomes in all cohorts . Overall survival ( OS ) HR ( 95% CI ) for Good patients in each cohort was : 23 ( 12 to 44 ) , 32 ( 21 to 51 ) , and 52 ( 41 to 66 ) and persisted in all PD-L1 subgroups . The test was predictive of differential OS and progression-free survival in one cohort , but not in the other . Enrichment techniques indicated the test was associated with acute inflammatory response , acute phase response , and complement activation . CONCLUSIONS : Aspects of host immune response to disease can be assessed from the circulating proteome and provide outcome stratification for patients treated with atezolizumab . Combining this information with PD-L1 measurements improves prediction of outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) have shown substantial benefit for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . However , resistance to ICIs remains a major clinical challenge . Here , we perform a comprehensive bioinformatic analysis of plasma proteomic profiles to explore the underlying biology of treatment resistance in NSCLC . METHODS : The analysis was performed on 388 " resistance-associated proteins " ( RAPs ) that were previously described as pretreatment plasma proteomic predictors within the PROphet computational model designed to predict ICI clinical benefit in NSCLC . Putative tissue origins of the RAPs were explored using publicly available datasets . Enrichment analyses were performed to investigate RAP-related biological processes . Plasma proteomic data from 50 healthy subjects and 272 patients with NSCLC were compared , where patients were classified as displaying clinical benefit ( CB ; n=76 ) or no CB ( NCB ; n=196 ) . Therapeutic agents targeting RAPs were identified in drug and clinical trial databases . RESULTS : The RAP set was significantly enriched with proteins associated with lung cancer , liver tissue , cell proliferation , extracellular matrix , invasion , and metastasis . Comparison of RAP expression in healthy subjects and patients with NSCLC revealed five distinct RAP subsets that provide mechanistic insights . The RAP subset displaying a pattern of high expression in the healthy population relative to the NSCLC population included multiple proteins associated with antitumor activities , while the subset displaying a pattern of highest expression in the NCB population included proteins associated with various hallmarks of treatment resistance . Analysis of patient-specific RAP profiles revealed inter-patient diversity of potential resistance mechanisms , suggesting that RAPs may aid in developing personalized therapeutic strategies . Furthermore , examination of drug and clinical trial databases revealed that 5% of the RAPs are drug targets , highlighting the RAP set as a valuable resource for drug development . CONCLUSIONS : The study provides insight into the underlying biology of ICI resistance in NSCLC and highlights the potential clinical value of RAP profiles for developing personalized therapies .
BACKGROUND : Gastric cancer ( GC ) remains a major global health burden . Despite the advancements in immunotherapy for patients with GC , the heterogeneity of GC limits response rates , especially in immune " cold " subtypes , including genomically stable and epithelial-mesenchymal transition GC . Common lymphatic endothelial and vascular endothelial receptor-1 ( CLEVER-1 ) , a newly recognized immune checkpoint molecule predominantly expressed on tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) , remains poorly understood in GC . This study aims to explore the clinical significance of CLEVER-1 ( + ) TAM infiltration , elucidate its role in modulating the tumor immune landscape , and investigate the therapeutic potential of CLEVER-1 blockade in enhancing immunotherapy . METHODS : This study analyzed two independent GC cohorts and single-cell RNA sequencing data ( GSE183904 ) . CLEVER-1 expression in TAMs was assessed via multiplex immunofluorescence , flow cytometry , and RNA sequencing . The clinical relevance of CLEVER-1 ( + ) TAM infiltration was evaluated in relation to tumor , node , metastases staging , molecular subtypes , prognosis , and immunochemotherapy response . Transcriptomic and pathway analyses characterized the immunophenotype of CLEVER-1 ( + ) TAMs . Functional assays examined their suppression on CD8 ( + ) T cells , while interventional experiments assessed the impact of CLEVER-1 blockade alone or with programmed cell death protein-1 ( PD-1 ) inhibition . RESULTS : CLEVER-1 was predominantly expressed on TAMs in GC and was associated with worse clinical outcomes . Transcriptomic and phenotypic analyses revealed that CLEVER-1 ( + ) TAMs display a dynamic immunophenotype and critically suppress T-cell function , fostering an immunosuppressive microenvironment . High CLEVER-1 ( + ) TAM infiltration was linked to poor response or adaptive resistance to PD-1 blockade therapy . CLEVER-1 blockade reprogrammed TAMs toward a pro-inflammatory phenotype , resulting in enhanced CD8 ( + ) T cell cytotoxicity and proliferation . Co-targeting CLEVER-1 and PD-1 synergistically enhanced antitumor responses . CONCLUSIONS : High infiltration of CLEVER-1 ( + ) TAMs indicates immune suppression and poor prognosis in GC . The combination of CLEVER-1 and PD-1 blockade emerges as a dual-pronged strategy to boost immune-mediated tumor control and prevent treatment relapse in GC .
BACKGROUND : Immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) have transformed treatment and have provided significant clinical benefits and durable responses for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . However , only a small percentage of patients respond to ICI treatment , and immune-related adverse events ( irAEs ) leading to treatment discontinuation remain challenging . Despite the recognized need for biomarkers to predict both the efficacy of ICIs and the risk of irAEs , such biomarkers are yet to be clearly identified . METHODS : In this study , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) of peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) from 33 patients with NSCLC before ICIs treatment . To validate our findings , we reanalyzed public scRNA-seq data , conducted a cytometric bead array ( CBA ) , and supported our findings with T-cell receptor sequencing . RESULTS : While the immune response was more pronounced in patients with a favorable prognosis , the hypoxic pathway was more prominent in patients with primary resistance . Lymphocytes such as CD8 T cells , CD4 T cells , and natural killer cells were primarily involved in these pathways , with PRF1 and GZMB expression showing strong associations with favorable prognosis . In contrast , irAEs were mainly linked to myeloid cells , such as monocytes and macrophages . As irAE severity increased , inflammation and the TNF-NFKB1 pathway were more prominent . Specifically , increased expression of IL1B , CXCL8 , and CXCL2 in monocytes and TNF in macrophages was closely associated with severe irAE through involvement in these pathways . Notably , the increase of PRF1 and GZMB expression showed a close association with both a favorable prognosis and a reduced severity of irAE , which was validated through CBA analysis . Moreover , the expression of these key markers varied according to prognosis and irAE severity regardless of patient background , such as programmed death-ligand 1 expression levels , tumor histology , or prior treatment regimens . CONCLUSIONS : This study identified biological pathways and key biomarkers associated with ICI prognosis and irAE severity using PBMC samples before treatment . These findings provide a foundation for improved therapeutic strategies that enhance clinical outcomes while minimizing ICI treatment-associated risks .
BACKGROUND : Immunotherapies targeting immune checkpoint inhibitors have revolutionized cancer treatment but are limited by incomplete patient responses . Costimulatory agonists like OX40 ( CD134 ) , a tumor necrosis factor receptor family member critical for T-cell survival and differentiation , have shown preclinical promise but limited clinical success due to suboptimal receptor activation . Conventional bivalent OX40 agonists fail to induce the trimeric engagement required for optimal downstream signaling . To address this , we developed INBRX-106 , a hexavalent OX40 agonist designed to enhance receptor clustering independently of Fc-mediated crosslinking and boost antitumor T-cell responses . METHODS : We assessed INBRX-106 ' s effects on receptor clustering , signal transduction , and T-cell activation using NF-kss reporter assays , confocal microscopy , flow cytometry , and single-cell RNA sequencing . Therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in murine tumor models and ex vivo human samples . Clinical samples from a phase I/II trial ( NCT04198766 ) were also analyzed for immune activation . RESULTS : INBRX-106 demonstrated superior receptor clustering and downstream signaling compared with bivalent agonists , leading to robust T-cell activation and proliferation . In murine models , hexavalent OX40 agonism resulted in significant tumor regression , enhanced survival , and increased CD8 ( + ) T-cell effector function . Clinical pharmacodynamic analysis in blood samples from patients treated with INBRX-106 showed heightened T-cell activation and proliferation , particularly in central and effector memory subsets , validating our preclinical findings . CONCLUSIONS : Our data establish hexavalent INBRX-106 as a differentiated and more potent OX40 agonist , showcasing its ability to overcome the limitations of conventional bivalent therapies by inducing superior receptor clustering and multimeric engagement . This unique clustering mechanism amplifies OX40 signaling , driving robust T-cell activation , proliferation , and effector function in preclinical and clinical settings . These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of INBRX-106 and its capacity to redefine OX40-targeted immunotherapy , providing a compelling rationale for its further clinical development in combination with checkpoint inhibitors .
Chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) therapies have revolutionized cancer treatment by enabling immune cells to target tumor cells with high specificity . While extensive research has focused on optimizing single-chain variable fragment ( scFv ) affinity in CAR-T cells , its impact on CAR-natural killer ( NK ) cell function remains less understood . A recent study by Rahnama et al , published in the Journal for ImmunoTherapy of Cancer , addresses this gap by investigating how fine-tuning scFv affinity influences CAR-NK efficacy against acute myeloid leukemia . The study demonstrates that lower-affinity 7G3-based CAR-NK cells exhibit superior antigen discrimination , prolonged persistence , and enhanced tumor control compared with their high-affinity counterparts . However , findings with 26292-based CAR-NK cells reveal a more complex , context-dependent relationship between scFv affinity and cytotoxic function . These results highlight the need for individualized optimization of CAR designs , considering factors such as epitope accessibility , ligand-binding kinetics , and cellular context . Future studies incorporating real-time kinetic analyses and tumor microenvironment modeling will be crucial for refining CAR-NK therapies . Striking the right balance between binding affinity , dwell time , and serial killing capacity could enhance CAR-NK therapeutic potential while minimizing toxicity risks .
INTRODUCTION : Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths . Patients with stage I-III non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) are candidates for surgical resection ; however , patients with low muscle mass , myosteatosis , malnutrition or reduced functional capacity preoperatively have a higher risk of postoperative morbidity . Prehabilitation is a care process aiming to enhance functional capacity before surgery to improve surgical outcomes . Study objectives are to test the effect of prehabilitation interventions of a mixed-nutrient supplement ( NUT ) alone or its combination with exercise ( MM , multimodal prehabilitation ) , compared with placebo-control ( CTL ) , in NSCLC patients on change in functional capacity pre-surgery and post-discharge , muscle mass and myosteatosis , postoperative health-related quality of life ( HRQoL ) , complications and length of hospital stay . We hypothesise that a multi-nutrient supplement , with or without exercise , will be of benefit . METHODS AND ANALYSIS : Randomised controlled trial of three parallel arms : 168 patients with operable NSCLC at nutritional risk are randomised 1 : 1 : 1 to CTL , NUT or MM . Patients in the NUT and MM groups receive a nutritional supplement consisting of whey protein , leucine , vitamin D and fish oil 4-6 weeks preoperatively and 6 weeks post-discharge . The exercise programme ( MM ) consists of daily moderate-intensity aerobic activity and resistance training 3 days/week . The following is assessed at baseline , preoperatively and week six post-discharge : functional capacity using the 6 min walk test , muscle mass and myosteatosis using D3-creatine dilution and peripheral quantitative CT , and HRQoL using the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung . Intention-to-treat analysis of covariance will compare between-group differences adjusted for baseline variables . Postoperative functional recovery will be tested by logistic regression . Between-group differences in clinical outcomes will be tested , applying Bonferroni correction . ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION : This trial is approved by the McGill University Health Centre Research Ethics Board ( 2022-7782 ) . Results will be published in open-access peer-reviewed journals and conference presentations . TRIAL REGISTRATION DETAILS : NCT
While the World Marrow Donor Association global database currently offers approximately 7 million potential donors and cord blood units to patients in need of haematopoietic cell transplant , lack of eight HLA-matched donors remains a significant barrier . The Registry of Unmet Need ( RUN ) Project seeks to address disparities in transplant access for patients with rare HLA genotypes , particularly those from populations that have been historically underrepresented and underserved by global donor registries . Patients eligible for this study searched for an unrelated donor for transplant between 2015 and 2017 and , at that time , lacked a potential eight-of-eight HLA-matched unrelated donor ( MUD ) . Sixteen donor registries contributed data from 3654 patients using standardised data-collection project templates . To address this unmet need , pooled data were analysed to identify trends and inform global recruitment strategies . Patient genotypes were queried against the global inventory at later timepoints in 2018 and 2023 to determine whether potential matches had been recruited within the years since the initial search . Patient haplotypes were imputed using an open-source method referencing US population frequencies . The imputation process used five continental reference populations and 21 detailed populations derived from the NMDP database . The method provided a Bayesian inference of population membership . A control group consisting of US patients that yielded 1000 or more potential matches was used for comparison . RUN patient haplotype and genotype frequencies were substantially lower compared with controls ; both the more frequent and less frequent haplotypes in RUN patients were found to be approximately 100 times less common than those in the control group . We identified 782 potential cases in which a potential MUD was recruited after the initial RUN patient search was performed ; while this result is being further investigated , clear patterns of where these new matches can be found have emerged ; typically , new matches are found outside the country where the patient search was initiated . Our findings demonstrate that rare haplotypes are the primary barrier to identifying a MUD ; the presence of rare alleles or haplotype combinations , as with multi-race ancestry , is rarely the cause . Although strategic donor recruitment efforts will help improve MUD access , patient transplants should not be delayed in pursuit of a MUD when viable alternative options are available .
Cancer immunotherapeutic CpG oligodeoxynucleotide ( ODN ) is an agonist for TLR9 and a potent inducer of inflammatory cytokines and type I interferon . Clinical trials of CpG ODNs highlight the urgent need for effective TLR9 agonist CpG ODNs in humans . Here , we developed a highly potent CpG ODN , A602 , which induces antitumor immune responses in combination with CXCL A602 induced secretion of interferon-alpha by human peripheral blood mononuclear cells . In mouse macrophages , dendritic cells , and human plasmacytoid dendritic cell lines , CXCL14 enhanced cellular uptake of A602 , thereby promoting TLR9-mediated immune responses . Importantly , A602 exhibited strong antitumor activity in syngeneic mouse models of colorectal cancer-derived CT26 , B lymphoma-derived A20 , and melanoma-derived B16F10 cells . Because the antitumor effect of A602 against B16F10 cells was negated in Cxcl14 knockout mice , endogenously expressed CXCL14 is required for the A602-mediated tumor suppression . Thus , modulation of CXCL14 during the A602-induced immune responses shall unveil an innovative new approach for the antitumor immune therapy .
The authors report on a 21-year-old clinically asymptomatic female patient , who was admitted with two supratentorial intradural lesions in her follow up magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) 17 years after treatment of a posterior fossa medulloblastoma . Sequential surgical removal was performed . The left parietal tumor with dural involvement was diagnosed as a transitional meningioma WHO grade The right temporal lesion , which had also close relationship to the dura , was diagnosed as a spindle cell sarcoma . We therefore report a metachronous tumor development of a benign and a malignant intradural sarcomatous tumor as secondary neoplasms following childhood medulloblastoma treatment .
AIMS : Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is a medically significant arbovirus responsible for Chikungunya fever ( CHIKF ) , a debilitating disease marked by persistent joint and muscle pain . The most severe outcomes of CHIKF , including mortality , are frequently observed in individuals with comorbidities diabetes mellitus ( DM ) . This study aimed to investigate how varying glucose concentrations influence CHIKV infection . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVEC ) were cultured in normal glucose ( NG - 5 mM glucose ) or high glucose ( HG - 25 mM glucose ) to mimic normoglycemia and hyperglycemia conditions . Cells were infected with CHIKV and changes in host glucose metabolism were evaluated . Metabolic flux , viral replication , and cellular insulin sensitivity were assessed through biochemical , molecular analyses and metabolomics . KEY FINDINGS : CHIKV infection modulates host cell metabolism in a glucose-dependent manner . Under NG conditions , the virus regulates glucose metabolism to support replication and virion production . In contrast , HG environments enhance viral replication , exploiting the altered metabolic landscape . Notably , CHIKV restores insulin sensitivity in HG conditions , leading to increased glucose uptake . It also promotes anaplerotic reactions by diverting tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle intermediates toward amino acid synthesis and upregulates glycolytic flux into the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway ( HBP ) . SIGNIFICANCE : These findings provide mechanistic insight into how hyperglycemia associated with DM can exacerbate CHIKV pathogenesis . The virus ' s ability to hijack and redirect host metabolic processes in high glucose environments may underline the worsened disease severity observed in diabetic patients . Understanding these interactions could inform targeted therapeutic strategies for managing CHIKF in individuals with metabolic comorbidities .
AIMS : Dysfunctional endothelium contributes to the initiation and progression of atherosclerosis . Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) is a key transcription factor that regulates the expression of antioxidant and cytoprotective genes . Reduced activity of Nrf2 can contribute to endothelial dysfunction . While the role of endothelial Nrf2 in vascular homeostasis is well supported , several knowledge gaps remain , particularly regarding its cell type-specific contributions and crosstalk mechanisms in vascular disease progression . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Atherosclerosis was induced in mice with transcriptionally inactive Nrf2 in cadherin 5 ( Cdh5 ) -expressing cells ( Nrf2 ( Cdh5tKO ) ) and appropriate control Nrf2 ( flox/flox ) mice via adeno-associated viral vector ( AAV ) -mediated overexpression of murine proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( Pcsk9 ) in the liver and high-fat diet feeding . In addition to histological analysis , single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) was performed to investigate the cellular composition of healthy and atherosclerotic mouse aortas and examine their gene expression characteristics . KEY FINDINGS : Loss of Nrf2 transcriptional activity in mice promoted aortic root lesions formation . The scRNA-seq analysis performed on the aortas of Nrf2 ( Cdh5tKO ) mice revealed a specific transcriptomic profile of endothelial cells ( ECs ) lacking Nrf2 activity , including altered expression of genes regulating shear stress , inflammation , vascular permeability , and secretion of proatherogenic factors . Additionally , cellular crosstalk analysis revealed significant alterations in the atherosclerotic aortas of Nrf2 ( Cdh5tKO ) mice , including weakened communication probability between ECs and ( myo ) fibroblasts and enhanced interactions between ECs and inflammatory macrophages . SIGNIFICANCE : Endothelial Nrf2 deficiency promotes atherosclerosis by inducing inflammatory traits in ECs and shifting vascular cell communication dynamics .
INTRODUCTION : Glucocorticoids ( GC ) are a widely prescribed anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive medicine in clinics . The side effects GC of mostly insulin resistance ( IR ) , dysregulated lipid metabolism and fatty liver , remain the major concern in patients . Understanding the mechanism of GC-induced hepatic steatosis is expected to provide an intervention target to avoid this side effect . AIM : The present study aims to explore the beneficial effects of trimetazidine ( TMZ ) to combat DEXA-induced steatohepatitis and metabolic abnormalities . METHODS : An in vivo IR model was established using male Wistar rats , which were administered TMZ at doses of 10 and 20 mg/kg for a duration of 14 days . Subsequently , from day 7 to day 14 of the study , the rats received DEXA ( 1 mg/kg , intraperitoneal ( i . p . ) injection ) . There were 5 groups , with each group consisting of 6 animals , as outlined : control group , TMZ control group , DEXA group , TMZ 10 + DEXA group , TMZ 20 + DEXA group . On the 14th day of the experiment , serum and hepatic samples were collected . RESULTS : The findings indicate a marked reduction in OGTT results , fasting serum glucose and insulin levels , ALT and AST levels following treatment with TMZ . TMZ treatment also attenuated oxidative stress markers and improved the lipid profile . Additionally , the hepatic concentrations of high-mobility group box1 ( HMGB1 ) , phosphorylated Janus kinase 1 ( p-JAK1 ) , phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( p-STAT3 ) , and levels of NF-kappaB-p65 and interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) were significantly diminished by TMZ when compared with the DEXA-treated group . Furthermore , TMZ lowered B cell/lymphoma 2 ( BCL-2 ) and caspase-3 levels and attenuated liver histopathological changes . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrated that TMZ significantly improved DEXA-induced hepatic alterations by modulating the HMGB1/p-JAK1/p-STAT3/NF-kappaB pathway in liver . Our findings provide new evidence supporting the application of TMZ for treating DEXA-induced IR and hepatic steatosis .
AIMS : The protein known as cytoskeleton-associated protein 5 ( CKAP5 ) functions as a microtubule-associated protein , and its specific involvement in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) remains inadequately defined . The present study aims to reveal the molecular mechanisms of CKAP5 in ESCC . METHODS : CKAP5 expression and its prognostic pertinence in ESCC were analyzed using public databases . Quantitative RT-PCR was conducted to validate CKAP5 expression . Additionally , both in vitro and in vivo were conducted to explore the role of CKAP5 in the ESCC tumorigenesis and its associated cisplatin resistance . KEY FINDINGS : Elevated CKAP5 expression in ESCC tissues was significantly associated with unfavorable prognosis . Functional assays revealed that the ectopic overexpression of CKAP5 led to increased cell proliferation , migration , and resistance to cisplatin in ESCC cells . In vivo validated that CKAP5 contributed to enhanced tumor growth . We further demonstrated that CKAP5 facilitated YAP nuclear translocation by modulating microtubule dynamics , thereby driving ESCC progression . SIGNIFICANCE : CKAP5 plays a pivotal role in ESCC tumorigenesis and cisplatin resistance through the regulation of microtubule dynamics and YAP activation . Our evidences indicate that CKAP5 may serve as a promising therapeutic target for ESCC .
AIMS : Multiple murine models , including high-fat diet ( HFD ) , methionine-choline-deficient diet ( MCD ) , choline-deficient , L-amino acid-defined high-fat diet ( CDA-HFD ) , Western diet ( WD ) , carbon tetrachloride ( CCl ) injection , and Gubra-Amylin diet ( GAN ) , are widely used for mechanistic studies and therapeutic evaluation in MASH research . However , due to species-specific differences in metabolism , lifespan , and dietary composition , no single model can fully recapitulate the onset and progression of human MASH . Therefore , a detailed transcriptomic reference is urgently needed to better guide model selection and experimental design . METHODS : We established three murine MASH models : HFD , MCD and CDA-HFD . Physiological and pathological features were systematically evaluated and compared across models . Bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing were performed , and the resulting data were integrated with transcriptomic profiles from CCl-induced models and human MASH datasets , with a focus on metabolism , inflammation , fibrosis , and cellular signaling pathways . KEY FINDINGS : The CDA-HFD and CCl models closely resembled human MASH in inflammation and fibrosis but disrupted key metabolic pathways . Conversely , the HFD model mirrored metabolic abnormalities but lacked severe inflammation and fibrosis . Immunoinfiltration and single-cell analyses revealed that macrophages dominate the inflammatory process , with activation of PPAR signaling , extracellular matrix remodeling , and phagocytosis . SIGNIFICANCE : To balance metabolic and pathological fidelity without relying on genetic or toxin means , a combination of the CDA-HFD model with either HFD or WD is recommended as a robust and practical strategy for MASH research .
AIMS : This study aims to investigate the expression , clinical relevance , and functional roles of PSME2 in ESCC . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The biomarkers for ESCC were identified through comprehensive analysis of publicly available mRNA transcriptome data obtained from TCGA and GEO databases . The mRNA and protein expression levels of PSME2 in ESCC were validated using two independent cohort data of ESCC samples . The proliferation , migration , invasion , and autophagy activity of ESCC cells were evaluated in vitro through the knockdown of PSME2 or PR The effect of the knockout of PSME2 , STAT3 inhibitor WP1066 , and autophagy inhibitor chloroquine on the tumorigenic potential of ESCC cells was also assessed through an in vivo subcutaneous tumor model established in nude mice . KEY FINDINGS : The result obtained indicates the upregulation of PSME2 in ESCC , suggesting poor prognosis . The result also shows that the knockdown of PSME2 and PR171 triggers the reduction in ESCC cell proliferation , migration , and invasion . Thus , it buttresses the fact that PSME2 knockdown induced autophagy through the IL6/STAT3 pathway , leading to cell death resistance . The result also linked the suppression of tumor growth to the knockdown of PSME2 and WP1066 or chloroquine , suggesting that targeting these proteins may be a potential therapeutic strategy for inhibiting tumor progression . SIGNIFICANCE : The study shows the promising role of PSME2 as a therapeutic target in ESCC management . The combined inhibition of PSME2 and activated pathways ensures effective suppression of tumor growth and proliferation , thus offering a novel strategy for better treatment outcomes in ESCC patients .
AIMS : Doxorubicin ( Dox ) , a common anthracycline used in cancer therapy , is constrained by its cardiotoxic side effects . Preclinical research indicates that aerobic exercise might reduce Dox-induced cardiac injury . However , the precise mechanisms remain unclear . The aim of this study is to investigate whether aerobic exercise alleviates Dox-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis by modulating the AMPK/PI3K/AKT signalling pathway . MATERIALS AND METHODS : An in vivo model of Dox-induced cardiotoxicity was established by using C57BL/6 J mice , followed by aerobic exercise intervention . Cardiac function , morphology , apoptosis , and proliferation , as well as the activity AMPK/PI3K/AKT pathway were assessed . In addition , an in vitro model of Dox-induced cardiomyocyte injury was established by using H9c2 cells . Cells were treated with 5-Aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleoside ( AICAR , AMPK activator ) and 2- ( 4-morpholinyl ) -8-phenyl-4H-1-benzopyran-4-one ( LY294002 , PI3K inhibitor ) , and cardiomyocyte apoptosis , proliferation , as well as the activity of PI3K/AKT pathway were evaluated . KEY FINDINGS : In vivo demonstrated that Dox administration resulted in cardiac dysfunction , morphological disarray , myocardial fibrosis , pathological cardiomyocyte hypertrophy , and cardiomyocyte apoptosis , and significantly suppressed the activity of the AMPK and PI3K/AKT signalling pathways , while aerobic exercise reversed these effects . In vitro , the AICAR reduced Dox-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis and promoted cardiomyocyte proliferation by activating the PI3K/AKT signalling pathway . SIGNIFICANCE : Our findings indicate aerobic exercise may protect against myocardial damage by activating the AMPK/PI3K/AKT signalling pathway , offering insights into the molecular mechanisms of cardioprotection and highlighting the potential benefits of exercise .
Recombinant adeno-associated virus ( rAAV ) is considered the most promising vector for gene therapy . However , the transgene- induced immune response hinders treatment efficacy . Current strategies to suppress immune responses include tissue-specific promoters and miRNA-binding sites ; however , neither approach alone completely inhibits transgene-induced immune response . This study innovatively combines the C5-12 promoter and miRNA148a-3p binding sequences ( miRNA148BS ) in rAAV vectors express full-length ovalbumin ( OVA ) as a model antigen . We evaluated their effects on antigen presentation , cellular immunity , and humoral immunity . Results demonstrate that the combination of miRNA148BS and C5-12 promoter preserves expression of OVA in C2C12 cells while completely suppressing the expression in antigen-presenting cells ( APC ) . Antigen presentation assays confirmed near-undetectable levels of the SIINFEKL peptide-MHC complex . Notably , the dual-modification strategy enabled higher and more stable transgene expression in mouse muscle compared to individual modifications . Furthermore , the combination significantly inhibited cytotoxic CTL activation and suppressed Th17 responses in vivo . This synergistic approach provides a foundation for development safe and more effective rAAV-based gene therapy .
Herein , we summarize the latest insights into osteosarcoma , the most prevalent primary malignant bone tumor , known for its aggressive nature , poor outcome , and especially poor prognosis when metastasis develops . Given recent research implicating the crucial role of the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) in osteosarcoma progression , cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) emerged as key players . Through the secretion of cytokines , remodeling of the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) , and cross-talk with osteosarcoma cells , CAFs collectively promote tumor growth , metastasis , and immune evasion . Exosomes derived from CAFs , which could also serve as important mediators of osteosarcoma progression , have been found to transport oncogenic lncRNAs like SNHG17 and linc Moreover , some subtypes of CAFs , such as TOP2A+ CAFs , have shown significant prognostic value for tumor aggressiveness . Thus , targeted CAFs was identified as a promising therapeutic modality , with strategies such as fibroblast activation protein ( FAP ) inhibition , TGF-beta blockade , and CXCL12/CXCR4 axis inhibition demonstrating positive outcomes in preclinical models . The combination of CAF-targeted therapies with immunotherapies or chemotherapy has shown additional potential to reverse this CAF-induced resistance . Autophagy regulation in CAFs can be therapeutic opportunities for novel Interevent strategies .
BACKGROUND : Mast cells play pivotal roles in allergic pathogenesis and inflammatory disorders , with their pathologic effects largely mediated through granule exocytosis . Dynactin subunit 1 ( Dctn1 ) , a microtubule-associated motor protein , remains unexplored in mast cell-driven inflammation . This study investigates Dctn1 ' s functional role in regulating mast cell degranulation during food allergy ( FA ) . METHODS : An ovalbumin-sensitized murine FA model was established to profile mast cell activity . Gut lavage fluid ( GLF ) was analyzed via Olink proteomics and ELISA to quantify Dctn1 levels and mast cell mediators ( histamine , Mcpt1 ) . Mechanistic studies employed RNA interference , conditional knockout mice ( Dctn1 ( f/f ) Cma1-Cre ) , and immunoprecipitation to assess Dctn1 ' s role in granule trafficking . RESULTS : FA mice exhibited 2-fold higher Dctn1 levels in GLF versus controls ( p < 001 ) , strongly correlating with mast cell mediator concentrations ( histamine : r = 73 ; Mcpt1 : r = 7 ) . Intestinal mast cells showed selective Dctn1 upregulation ( 8-fold mRNA increase , p < 01 ) , mechanistically linked to granule trafficking through CMA1 complex formation . Mast cell-specific Dctn1 ablation reduced Mcpt1 release by 74% ( p < 001 ) and ameliorated FA symptoms ( 92% core temperature drop , p < 005 ) , independent of AKT/ERK signaling pathways . CONCLUSIONS : This study identifies Dctn1 as a novel regulator of mast cell degranulation in FA , operating through microtubule-dependent granule transport . Targeted inhibition of Dctn1 significantly attenuates allergic responses without disrupting canonical activation signals , positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for mast cell-driven pathologies .
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to investigate the role of T-cell factor-1 ( TCF1 ) in early-stage lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) patients and explore its clinical significance for diagnosing early LUAD . METHODS : Blood samples were collected from 34 stage IA LUAD patients and 31 healthy controls . Flow cytometry was used to analyze the levels of TCF1 in circulating T cell subpopulations . Functional characteristics of TCF1-related cells were investigated by staining with CD62L and Ki- Changes in TCF1-related proportions in T cell subsets of early LUAD patients were analyzed . The role of Notch signaling was clarified by adding the Notch signal activator Jagged1 ( JAG1 ) . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves were used to evaluate the diagnostic value of TCF1-related T cell subsets for screening early LUAD . RESULTS : The expression level of TCF1 in follicular regulatory T ( Tfr ) and regulatory T ( Treg ) cells was decreased in early LUAD patients , and TCF1+CD62L+ follicular helper ( Tfh ) cells were also decreased . TCF1+CD62L+ cells in both Treg and Tfr were decreased in early LUAD patients . Decreased TCF1 in Treg and Tfr recovered in early LUAD after adding JAG TCF1-related indicators showed good auxiliary diagnostic significance for early LUAD . TCF1+ , TCF1+CD62L+ , and TCF1-CD62L+ percentages in Treg and Tfr cells were with areas under the curve ( AUCs ) between 827 and 897 to distinguish early LUAD from healthy individuals . CONCLUSIONS : Downregulation of Notch signaling contributes to the decrease in TCF1+ Treg subsets in LUAD patients , which is of significant value for screening early-stage lung adenocarcinoma .
BACKROUND : Sinusoidal obstruction syndrome/veno-occlusive disease ( SOS/VOD ) is a serious complication following allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation ( HCT ) . Although post-transplant cyclophosphamide ( PTCy ) is increasingly used for graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis , data on its impact in the context of SOS/VOD remain limited . OBJECTIVES : This study aimed to assess the incidence , clinical characteristics , prognostic factors , treatment approaches , and outcomes of SOS/VOD in HCT recipients receiving GVHD prophylaxis with PTCY , sirolimus or tacrolimus , and mycophenolate mofetil ( MMF ) across all donor types . STUDY DESIGN : This single-center observational study included all 532 consecutive adults who underwent HCT with PTCy between January 2017 and February Patient demographics , transplant procedures , toxicities , and complications were prospectively collected . Clinical charts were reviewed as needed to address inconsistencies or missing information . RESULTS : Myeloablative conditioning was administered to 96% of recipients , who received grafts from matched sibling donors ( MSD , 36% ) , matched unrelated donors ( MUD , 34% ) , haploidentical donors ( 26% ) , or mismatched unrelated donors ( MMUD , 4% ) . SOS/VOD was diagnosed in 35 patients and classified according to EBMT criteria as probable ( n=10 ) , clinical ( n=23 ) , or proven ( n=2 ) . Classical SOS/VOD occurred in 21 patients ( 60% ) , while 14 ( 40% ) had late-onset disease . EBMT severity grading showed 3% mild , 20% moderate , 37% severe , and 40% very severe cases . The 100-day cumulative incidence was 6% ( 95% CI : 7-9 ) . Multivariable analysis identified prior transplantation , prior antibody-drug conjugates and higher CD3+ cell dose as risk factors . Patients with very severe or severe SOS/VOD ( based on clinical features but not those upgraded solely due to the presence of risk factors ) received defibrotide . Four patients ( 4% ) died from SOS/VOD ; all classified as very severe , and three of them had undergone prior transplantation ( two autologous , one allogeneic ) . Despite high severity , SOS/VOD analyzed as a time-dependent variable showed no association with overall survival or non-relapse mortality . CONCLUSIONS : SOS/VOD remains a challenging but clinically manageable complication with a modest incidence following HCT with PTCy . Although many cases were classified as severe or very severe , the associated mortality rate was relatively low . The identification of key risk factors , such as prior transplantation , antibody-drug conjugate exposure , and higher CD3 ( + ) cell doses , along with the notable proportion of late-onset cases , underscores the need for vigilant monitoring and individualized management strategies .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Pancreatitis is an inflammatory disease of the exocrine pancreas and a known risk factor for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) . Previously , we identified HMG-box transcription factor 1 ( HBP1 ) as a potential master transcription factor ( TF ) in the early progression of PDAC , with its expression associated with poor patient survival , underscoring its significance in pancreatic disease . However , the functional role of HBP1 in the onset and progression of acute pancreatitis ( AP ) remains unknown . METHODS : We examined HBP1 expression in human pancreatitis samples and a cerulein-induced AP mouse model . Pancreatic-specific conditional HBP1 knockout mice , with or without an oncogenic Kras mutation , were generated and compared to their littermate controls . Spatial transcriptomics and multiplexed protein assays , histological analysis , and immunostaining were utilized to characterize pathological changes . Findings from mouse models were validated using inducible HBP1-overexpressing human pancreatic ductal epithelial cells . RESULTS : HBP1 was upregulated in pancreatic exocrine cells in human chronic pancreatitis and mouse acute pancreatitis , with its expression in human chronic pancreatitis correlating with cancer presence . Pancreatic HBP1 ablation disrupted acinar homeostasis by impairing autophagic flux and exacerbating inflammation following injury . In the presence of oncogenic KRAS , HBP1 ablation delayed the formation of pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( PanIN ) , the precursor to PDAC , and slowed its progression to higher-grade lesions . CONCLUSIONS : HBP1 upregulation in pancreatitis mitigates pancreatic inflammatory injury ; however , in the presence of oncogenic KRAS , it facilitates PanIN progression . Thus , HBP1 serves as a critical regulator in both pancreatitis and early pancreatic neoplasia , representing a potential therapeutic target for intervening pancreatitis and PanIN progression .
We introduce DGM-CURL , a novel method to detect reentry in cardiac activation based on the Helmholtz Decomposition for directed graphs . DGM-CURL is an extension to our open-source diagnostic framework Directed Graph Mapping ( DGM ) . We compare DGM-CURL to two existing methods , Phase Mapping ( PM ) , and Directed Cycle Search ( DGM-CYCLE ) . Four datasets are explored : simulated two-dimensional functional reentry , simulated three-dimensional anatomical reentry , clinical electroanatomical atrial tachycardia ( AT ) mapping data , and ( ) experimental rat ventricular fibrillation ( VF ) optical mapping data . Results indicate general agreement between all three methods . Applying DGM-CURL on networks created by looking at differences in local activation times between nodes , we find that high curl values identify graph nodes that balance the inflow and outflow of these differences , indicating areas of reentry . We stress the importance of using multiple algorithms to detect rotational activity as each method is prone to errors . Using a combined approach decreases the susceptibility to errors and offers a more complete picture of the dynamics of rotational drivers in cardiac arrhythmias .
Molecular mechanisms regulating vascular development and hematopoiesis are still incompletely understood . The KLHL ( Kelch-like ) family of proteins function as adapters to target proteins for ubiquitination . However , their role in vascular development has not been previously analyzed . Here we have characterized a novel regulator of vascular development , kelch-like family member 4 ( klhl4 ) in zebrafish . We show that zebrafish klhl4 is expressed in early vascular endothelial and hematopoietic progenitors , while its expression is restricted to vascular endothelial cells during later developmental stages . To determine the functional role of klhl4 , we generated loss-of-function zebrafish mutants using CRISPR/Cas9 genome editing . klhl4 mutant embryos were viable , yet they exhibited delayed sprouting of intersegmental vessels ( ISVs ) , which correlated with reduced expression of vascular endothelial and erythroid specific molecular markers . Time-lapse imaging showed that vascular endothelial and hematopoietic progenitor cells exhibit delayed migration towards the midline and undergo increased apoptosis and reduced proliferation in klhl4 mutants . Expression of npas4l and etv2/etsrp , two master regulators of endothelial and hematopoietic development , was reduced in klhl4 mutants , suggesting that some vascular defects could be caused by the reduction of npas4l and etv2 expression . However , npas4l or etv2 overexpression failed to rescue ISV sprouting defects in klhl4 mutants , suggesting that klhl4 may promote vasculogenesis by additional mechanisms . In summary , our findings demonstrate a novel role for zebrafish klhl4 in regulating vascular endothelial and hematopoietic development during embryogenesis . Because the Klhl4 protein sequence is highly conserved between different vertebrates , it is likely that it may play a similar role in other organisms .
To rescue regeneration , the mechanisms underlying regeneration failure must be identified and overcome . In the annelid Capitella teleta , a transverse cut triggers asymmetric responses across the amputation plane : head fragments regenerate the tail , but tail fragments do not regenerate . We compare regeneration of head fragments ( successful regeneration ) to that of tail fragments ( unsuccessful regeneration ) using cell proliferation assays , immunolabeling , and in situ hybridization . Surprisingly , following amputation , a dynamic response of the nervous system occurs in the non-regenerating tail fragments of C . teleta that has not previously been described in annelids . Wnt/beta-catenin signaling plays a conserved role in patterning the primary axis of some bilaterians during regeneration , but this role has never been demonstrated in annelids . Wnt/beta-catenin pathway components are expressed in the blastema of head fragments but not at the cut site of tail fragments in C . teleta . Experimental activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling following amputation of tail fragments ( 24 - 72 hr post amputation ) induces expression of stem cell markers , increases cell division at the wound site , and produces differentiated muscle and hindgut . Furthermore , activation of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling induces ectopic posterior identity at the amputation site , as it does in other bilaterians . Inhibition of Wnt/beta-catenin signaling does not rescue head regeneration . Our results indicate that C . teleta tail fragments have latent regenerative potential that is activated by Wnt/beta-catenin signaling . However , the incomplete regenerative response suggests that additional cell signaling pathways are required for this complex process . Comparing tissues with different regenerative abilities elucidates the mechanisms underlying regeneration regulation , thereby enabling the prospect of rescuing or increasing regeneration ability in regeneration-deficient tissues .
The N6-methyladenosine ( mA ) modification is the most prevalent and abundant RNA modification in eukaryotes . In our previous study , we identified that the glycerophosphocholine phosphodiesterase 1 ( GPCPD1 ) gene was differentially expressed and diverse mA modificated in the pig soleus and extensor digitorum longus muscles . In this study , we further investigated the function of GPCPD1 gene in pig muscle development . We found that GPCPD1 inhibited myogenic differentiation and promoted the conversion of fast-twitch to slow-twitch fibers in both porcine muscle satellite cells ( PSCs ) and in mouse model . We also found that the expression of GPCPD1 was affected by mA methyltransferase METTL The methylated GPCPD1 gene was recognized by the mA reader protein IGF2BP3 , which further modulated the stability of GPCPD1 mRNA . This study provided novel evidence into mA regulation in pig muscle development and illustrated the new post-transcriptional regulation way in GPCPD1 expression .
Generally , Insulin-like growth factor 1 ( IGF-1 ) is believed to regulate lactation activity by promoting cell proliferation and differentiation . With the advancement of research , IGF-1 has been discovered to play an important role in different stages of lactation . In actual animal production , lactation ability directly affects milk yield and milk quality , which not only affects the survival and future growth of pups , but also is an important economic trait of some animals . In this paper , it is introduced that IGF-1 plays an important role in the whole lactation process , and what factors are involved in the regulation of IGF-1 in this process and how to improve lactation ability through IGF-1 in animal production , providing a theoretical basis for further exploration of IGF-1 in lactation , and also brings a theoretical foundation for the improvement of animal lactation ability .
BACKGROUND : Serum exosomal long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) have not been studied extensively as biomarkers in heart failure ( HF ) with reduced ejection fraction ( HFrEF ) . We compared lncRNA expression in patients with HFrEF hospitalized for acute HF with that in healthy individuals to identify differentially expressed exosomal lncRNAs . Furthermore , we explored the clinical value of exosomal KLF3-AS1 in diagnosing HF and investigated its role in cardiac hypertrophy . METHOD : Exosomes were isolated from patients with HFrEF and healthy individuals . We performed microarray analysis of differentially expressed lncRNAs and genes ( DELs and DEGs , respectively ) associated with HF . Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) , lncRNA-mRNA-KEGG pathway , and interaction networks between lncRNAs and RNA-binding proteins ( RBPs ) were developed . Expression patterns were verified using qRT-PCR . The diagnostic applicability of exosomal lncRNAs in HF was quantified by plotting receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves . The size of the cardiomyocytes was evaluated using alpha-actinin immunostaining . RESULTS : In total , 138 DELs and 1 , 132 DEGs were identified . PPI network analysis identified INS , CTNNB1 , and CAT as the most prominent hub genes , whereas MDM2 , MYH6 , ENAH , and KLF3-AS1 were significantly enriched in the RBP interaction network . In the validation phase , patients with HFrEF exhibited a significant increase in KLF3-AS1 expression compared with healthy individuals . Exosomal KLF3-AS1 had an area under the ROC curve of Functionally , KLF3-AS1 overexpression reduced Ang II-induced cardiac hypertrophy in vitro . CONCLUSION : Our results elucidated the exact patterns of circulating exosomal mRNAs and lncRNA expression in patients with HFrEF hospitalized for acute HF . Moreover , the high expression of exosomal KLF3-AS1 is a potential diagnostic biomarker for HFrEF .
Mutations that cause familial Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) are predominantly found in the presenilin ( PSEN ) encoding genes PSEN1 and PSEN While the association of PSEN mutations with familial AD have been known for over 20 years , the mechanism underlying the impact these mutations have on disease is not fully understood . PSENs are phylogenetically conserved proteins that are found in diverse multicellular organisms ranging from plants to humans . PSENs form the proteolytic core of gamma-secretase that is required for cleaving type I transmembrane proteins , such as Notch receptors and the amyloid precursor protein . Importantly , familial AD-associated PSEN mutations are broadly distributed and do not clearly define a specific PSEN function essential for neuronal fitness . Here , using C . elegans as a model organism to study the in vivo functions of PSENs , we confirm that C . elegans PSEN plays a pivotal role in gamma-secretase proteolytic activity as well as maintaining neuronal and organelle health . Notably , we demonstrate that these two functions can be genetically uncoupled . Our research identifies several conserved familial AD-like missense mutations in the endogenous sel-12 gene , which encodes C . elegans PSEN . These mutations preserve sufficient gamma-secretase proteolytic activity to mediate Notch signaling but abolish PSEN ' s role in supporting neuronal and organelle health . Furthermore , we provide evidence that these familial AD-like missense mutations disrupt mitochondrial calcium regulation , ultimately leading to neuronal dysfunction . These results indicate that C . elegans PSEN plays at least two independent roles : one that mediates gamma-secretase proteolytic activity and another that mediates organelle and neuronal health .
Status epilepticus ( SE ) , seizures lasting beyond five minutes , is a medical emergency commonly treated with benzodiazepines which enhance GABA ( A ) receptor ( GABA ( A ) R ) conductance . Despite widespread use , benzodiazepines fail in over one-third of patients , potentially due to seizure-induced disruption of neuronal chloride ( Cl ( - ) ) homeostasis . Understanding these changes at a network level is crucial for improving clinical translation . Here , we address this using a large-scale spiking neural network model incorporating Cl ( - ) dynamics , informed by clinical EEG and experimental slice recordings . Our simulations confirm that the GABA ( A ) R reversal potential ( E ( GABA ) ) dictates the pro- or anti-seizure effect of GABA ( A ) R conductance modulation , with high E ( GABA ) rendering benzodiazepines ineffective or excitatory . We show SE-like activity and E ( GABA ) depend non-linearly on Cl ( - ) extrusion efficacy and GABA ( A ) R conductance . Critically , cell-type specific manipulations reveal that pyramidal cell , not interneuron , Cl ( - ) extrusion predominantly determines the severity of SE activity and the response to simulated benzodiazepines . Leveraging these mechanistic insights , we develop a predictive framework mapping network states to Cl ( - ) extrusion capacity and GABAergic load , yielding a proposed decision-making strategy to guide therapeutic interventions based on initial treatment response . This work identifies pyramidal cell Cl ( - ) handling as a key therapeutic target and demonstrates the utility of biophysically detailed network models for optimising SE treatment protocols .
Thioredoxin 1 ( Trx1 ) is a redox-active protein of the thioredoxin family , primarily responsible for regulating the redox state of cells . The Trx1 gene of Scomber japonicus ( SjTrx1 ) was retrieved from a pre-established transcriptome database . The length of SjTrx1 is 327 base pairs and it encodes 108 amino acids . Under normal conditions , SjTrx1 was expressed in all examined tissues , with the highest level observed in the brain . Immunostimulation with polyinosinic : polycytidylic acid ( poly I : C ) , lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , and Vibrio harveyi highly induced SjTrx1 expression in the spleen and blood tissues . Recombinant SjTrx1 ( rSjTrx1 ) demonstrated antioxidant capacity and DNA-protective effect through insulin disulfide reduction , MTT , DPPH , and metal-catalyzed oxidation ( MCO ) assays . Overexpression of SjTrx1 induced M2 polarization of mouse macrophages and activation of M2-related marker genes , indicating anti-inflammatory properties . Overexpression of SjTrx1 in fathead minnow ( FHM ) cells enhanced the expression of key antiviral genes , leading to a subsequent reduction in viral gene expression following infection with viral hemorrhagic septicemia virus ( VHSV ) . The findings of this study suggested SjTrx1 ' s protective role against oxidative stress and its involvement in the immune response to pathogenic infections in S . japonicus .
It is well-established that Largemouth bass ranavirus ( LMBRaV ) induces viral ulcerative syndrome , a highly transmissible and lethal viral disease afflicting largemouth bass aquaculture . Given the urgent need for available prevention and control methods , this study evaluated the antiviral activities of fifteen naturally occurring compounds derived from herbal medicines against LMBRaV using an in vitro cell model . Andrographolide ( Andro ) was one of the substances that was evaluated and showed highly effective anti-LMBRaV activity of a 2% maximal inhibition rate of at 20 mg/L dosage . Mechanistic investigation revealed Andro prevented viral entry and directly inactivated the virus . Ultrastructural observations and fluorescence staining further supported Andro ' s protective effects on EPC cells from LMBRaV invasion . In vivo experiments demonstrated Andro ' s efficacy in reducing mortality rates in LMBRaV-infected largemouth bass by 54% and significantly lowering the viral load . Additionally , Andro upregulated antiviral genes such as ifn-gamma , irf-3 , and mx , indicating its immunomodulatory properties . Histopathological analysis revealed that Andro alleviated tissue damage of liver , spleen , and kidney in the infected fish . Andro also changed the microbiotic composition of gut by increasing the amounts of good bacteria and reducing amounts of bad bacteria . These findings collectively highlight Andro ' s substantial antiviral and immunomodulatory potential , suggesting its promising application as a natural compound for combating LMBRaV infections in largemouth bass aquaculture and potentially other aquatic animal diseases .
Endogenous microRNAs have been reported to play critical roles in modulating immune response by regulating RNA silencing through cleavage or translational repression of target mRNAs . This study investigates the involvement of Cgi-miR-96P2m identified from oysters Crassostrea gigas in regulating haemocyte proliferation under Vibrio splendidus stimulation . Cgi-miR-96P2m shares a similar sequence with vertebrate miR-96 family members , while maintains an identical seed region similar to mollusk ones , highlighting its evolutionary conservation . The expression levels of Cgi-miR-96P2m in haemocytes significantly downregulated at 48 h after V . splendidus stimulation . The percentage of EdU ( + ) cells in haemocytes was significantly higher in the Cgi-miR-96P2m inhibitor + Vs group compared to the inhibitor NC + Vs group , while significantly lower in the Cgi-miR-96P2m mimics + Vs group compared to the mimics NC + Vs group . Binding sites of Cgi-miR-96P2m were predicted at 2383-2401 bp in the coding sequence region of CgVEGFR , and its binding activity with CgVEGFR mRNA was further proved by the dual-luciferase reporter assay . KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that target genes of Cgi-miR-96P2m are enriched in the MAPK signaling pathway and apoptosis process . Inhibition of Cgi-miR-96P2m resulted in upregulated expression of CgP38 , cell cycle-related genes ( CgCDK2 , CgCDC45 ) and transcription factors ( CgGATA , CgRunx ) , as well as apoptosis-associated genes such as CgBCL- These findings suggest that the Cgi-miR-96P2m negatively regulates haemocyte proliferation by targeting CgVEGFR and influencing the expression of cell cycle and apoptosis-related genes in the immune response of oysters .
Cannabidiol ( CBD ) is a natural cannabinoid with a wide range of potential therapeutic applications , including as an anticonvulsant and for the treatment of inflammatory conditions . It is known that CBD interacts with the endocannabinoid system , which plays a crucial role in various physiological functions . However , its effects on male reproduction have not yet been fully elucidated . Thus , the aim of this study was to evaluate the in vivo effects of CBD on testicular cytoarchitecture and sperm quality in mice . Twenty-one-day old male Swiss mice received intragastric doses of CBD ( 15 or 30mg/kg/day ) for 34 consecutive days . A control group received sunflower oil . Both doses of CBD reduced the number of Sertoli cells at stages VII-VIII , IX and XII of spermatogenesis . A significant decrease in proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) -positive spermatocytes at stages VII-VIII was observed in the CBD15 group . In the interstitial compartment of the testis , no significant differences were found in the diameter and volume of Leydig cell nuclei or in the immunostaining of these cells for PCNA in the control and CBD-treated groups . Both doses of CBD reduced the percentage of viable spermatozoa and the percentage of morphologically normal spermatozoa . These findings suggest that daily exposure to CBD may reduce sperm quality , and the mechanisms responsible may be related to perturbations in the endocannabinoid system during spermatogenesis .
BACKGROUND : Coronavirus disease 2019 ( COVID-19 ) frequently presents with neurological symptoms in human patients and leads to long-lasting brain pathology in a hamster model . There is no overt SARS-CoV-2 virus replication in central neurons . Whether viral proteins are sufficient to cause this pathology requires further investigations . The SARS-CoV-2 Spike-protein S1-subunit ( S1-protein ) has recently gained interest for causing neuroinflammation and accelerating aggregation of alpha-synuclein ( aSyn ) in vitro . Here , we show the impact of S1-protein in a broad spectrum of brain regions after injection via three different application routes in C57/BL6 mice . METHODS : S1-protein was administered either intranasally , intravenously or intracerebrally . We quantified aSyn immunoreactivity and phosphorylated aSyn ( pS129 ) , microglia and astrocyte reactivity , ACE2/Neuropilin-1 receptor expression , and parvalbumin-positive interneurons in limbic system , basal ganglia , and cortical regions 14 days post-application . Plasma cytokine profiles were assessed 6 days post-injection . RESULTS : While intracerebral injection resulted in decreased aSyn immunoreactivity with increased pS129 in males , intravenous injection led to increased levels of aSyn immunoreactivity and microglia cell density , predominantly in brain regions associated with Parkinson ' s disease pathology . Intranasal application of S1-protein induced microgliosis in some brain regions but resulted in sex-dependent alterations of aSyn levels , with increases in females and decreases in males . All routes showed sex-dependent alterations in astrocytic reactivity , receptor expression , and parvalbumin-positive interneurons . CONCLUSION : Our results demonstrate that S1-protein itself leads to neuroinflammation , altered aSyn homeostasis , and disruption of inhibitory circuits in a route- and sex-dependent manner . These findings indicate the possibility of S1-protein being a crucial agent for both neuroinflammatory processes and altered protein regulation mechanisms . S1-protein trapped in tissue reservoirs could therefore explain symptoms occurring or persisting beyond viral clearance ( Post COVID-19 condition ) .
The increasing global aging population has led to a rise in diabetic cognitive dysfunction ( DCD ) , a common complication of diabetes that significantly impacts the health of elderly individuals . Neuronal death is a key factor in cognitive impairment , with studies showing interactions between cellular pyroptosis , apoptosis , and necroptosis in the development of neurodegenerative disorders . This has led to the concept of PANoptosis , where these pathways work together to cause cell death . High glucose levels can induce neuronal damage and cognitive dysfunction in rats , leading to various forms of programmed cell death . It is hypothesized that high glucose can trigger neuronal PANoptosis , resulting in cognitive dysfunction . AIM2 , an upstream regulator of PANoptosis , is closely associated with the pathogenesis of DCD . In DCD , dysregulated glucose metabolism induces the release of mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) , which acts as a ligand to activate the cell membrane-bound DNA sensor AIM Upon activation , AIM2 oligomerizes and recruits a caspase recruit domain ( ASC ) , forming a complex that activates caspase- Caspase-1 activation subsequently triggers the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines , induces pyroptosis , and mediates apoptosis , necroptosis , and PANoptosis in neurons through signaling crosstalk . Understanding the pathophysiological mechanism of AIM2-mediated neuronal PANoptosis in DCD development can aid in early diagnosis and identify new therapeutic targets .
Biological membranes , which comprise proteins , lipids and glycans , serve as essential gatekeepers protecting cells from the external environment . In bacteria , phospholipids are a major class of membrane lipids , whose biology has extensively been studied in the Gram-negative organism Escherichia coli . As an adaptive mechanism , E . coli dynamically remodels its phospholipids in response to its environment , which may involve alterations of the structures and/or levels of existing lipids , or the incorporation of exogenous substrates to form new phospholipid classes . Intriguingly , an unknown lipid was detected in E . coli and other Enterobacteriaceae . Detection of this lipid in E . coli grown in minimal media suggested its production using an endogenous metabolite . By coupling liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and metabolic incorporation , the lipid was identified as phosphatidylhomoserine ( PHS ) . In E . coli , PHS was produced endogenously by phosphatidylserine synthase A ( PssA ) , confirmed by the absence of PHS in an E . coli DeltapssA mutant , and its inability to incorporate exogenously supplied ( L ) -homoserine into its phospholipids . Furthermore , purified E . coli PssA ( EcPssA ) exhibited activity to utilize ( L ) -homoserine as an alternative substrate to make PHS in vitro . Interestingly , E . coli and other Enterobacteriaceae can decarboxylate PHS to form phosphatidylpropanolamine ( PPA ) endogenously . When treated with ( L ) -homoserine , accumulation of PHS in E . coli was accompanied by a reduction in phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylethanolamine , due to competition for common metabolic intermediates . Overall , our findings on the endogenous production of PHS and PPA re-established the baseline phospholipidome of E . coli , and provided biochemical and cellular evidence on the substrate promiscuity of EcPssA .
The persistently low success rate of human in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) remains a major clinical challenge , despite significant technological advancements . While culture media composition is known to influence outcomes , the specific components affecting embryonic development are poorly understood . In this study , we identify N-glycolylneuraminic acid ( Neu5Gc ) , a foreign sialic acid contaminant prevalent in animal-derived IVF media components , as a micro-environmental factor triggering developmental arrest . We demonstrate that Neu5Gc accumulates in arrested human embryos via endocytosis and upregulates p53 , leading to caspase-3/PARP -dependent apoptotic pathways . This mechanism was validated in human embryonic stem cells ( hESCs ) and zebrafish embryos , with antibody-mediated Neu5Gc neutralization rescuing developmental defects . Our findings not only elucidate a novel pathway contributing to IVF inefficiency but also provide actionable insights for optimizing culture media formulations .
Gene regulation involves a dynamic and precise choreography , with enhancers and promoters moving through the nuclear landscape in search of functional encounters . Advances in live-cell imaging have revealed that they do not follow universal rules , but instead explore their environment with peculiar specificity . Yet we are still far from understanding how this motion translates into transcriptional output . How do enhancers find and activate their target genes ? Are these processes coordinated or independent ? This review studies the evolving view of enhancer-promoter dynamics , focusing on the insights from cutting-edge imaging techniques and the challenges of capturing their fleeting movements in real time .
Spondyloarthritis ( SpA ) encompasses chronic inflammatory diseases affecting both axial and peripheral joints . Emerging evidence highlights a pivotal role for the gut-joint axis in SpA pathogenesis , where intestinal dysbiosis and barrier dysfunction facilitate microbial translocation and trigger systemic immune activation . Clinical observations of subclinical gut inflammation , alongside findings from HLA-B27 transgenic rats and SKG mice , underscore the gut ' s role in initiating joint pathology . Genetic predispositions , particularly HLA-B27 , further exacerbate these processes through mechanisms such as endoplasmic reticulum stress and IL-23-mediated T-cell activation . This review integrates epidemiological , mechanistic , and experimental insights to elucidate the complex interplay between the gut microbiota and immune responses in SpA , outlining potential avenues for targeted intervention .
BACKGROUND : During the progression of primary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma ( CTCL ) , malignant T cells acquire the capacity to invade extracutaneous sites . . However , the mechanisms driving CTCL progression and invasion remain poorly understood . This study aimed to investigate the role and specific mechanisms of ZNF460 and HADHB in the progression of CTCL . METHODS : The viability , proliferation , apoptosis , migration , invasion , and fatty acid metabolism of malignant T lymphoma cells were assessed using CCK-8 , EdU , TUNEL , Transwell , and ELISA assays . ChIP-qPCR , dual-luciferase reporter , qRT-PCR , and WB assays were utilized to elucidate the regulation of HADHB transcription by ZNF Tumor growth and pulmonary invasion in CTCL mouse models were evaluated through tumor growth curves and HE staining . RESULTS : Knockdown of HADHB inhibited the viability , proliferation , migration , invasion , and fatty acid metabolism of malignant T lymphoma cells , whereas overexpression of HADHB exhibited the opposite effects . Furthermore , overexpression of HADHB accelerated the tumor growth rate and pulmonary invasion in CTCL mice . ZNF460 was found to upregulate HADHB levels in malignant T lymphoma cells by activating HADHB transcription . Additionally , knockdown of ZNF460 led to the reduction in viability , proliferation , and migration of malignant T lymphocytes and the inhibition of CTCL mice tumor growth and pulmonary invasion . CONCLUSION : Collectively , ZNF460 enhanced HADHB levels by activating its transcription , thereby promoting CTCL tumor growth and pulmonary invasion .
The activity-based anorexia ( ABA ) animal model captures key maladaptive behaviors of anorexia nervosa - starvation-evoked hyperactivity , voluntary food restriction , severe weight loss and elevated anxiety-like behavior . By repeating ABA induction , the model reveals an animal ' s gain of resilience against ABA relapses and concomitant synaptic plasticity . We review findings on the efficacy of sub-anesthetic ketamine administered during ABA in mid-adolescence in gaining resilience against ABA relapses , and the molecular changes evoked at medial prefrontal cortex ( mPFC ) synapses . GluN2B-containing NMDA receptors are significantly greater at excitatory synapses on dendritic spines of pyramidal cells . Drebrin , an F-actin binding protein that promotes activity-dependent trafficking of NMDA receptors to synaptic membranes , also increases at excitatory synapses on GABA-interneurons and pyramidal cells . These changes are at sites very near ( <1 mum ) but clearly not at the post-synaptic plasma membrane of excitatory synapses , enabling rapid strengthening of synapses through receptor trafficking to the plasma membrane without increasing steady-state excitability . We propose that these changes underlie the ketamine-evoked gain of resilience against anorexia-like behaviors >15 days post-injection , during ABA relapse in late adolescence . Ketamine treatment during ABA in late-adolescence ameliorates ABA relapse in adulthood >15 days later but to a lesser extent . A new EM analysis revealed that wheel running promotes GABAergic inhibitory synapse formation on pyramidal cells of the hippocampus and that ketamine augments GABAergic inhibition ' s contribution towards suppression of the most maladaptive behavior - starvation-evoked hyperactivity - while also augmenting food consumption , as reflected by weight gain at the end of food availability periods .
Dipyridamole ( DIP ) has shown promising effectiveness in treating Inflammatory Bowel Disease ( IBD ) , especially in pediatric populations . However , existing formulations are unsuitable for children due to poor solubility and swallowing difficulties . This research aims to develop a novel DIP formulation with improved dissolution rate and bioavailability , tailored for children , using computational and experimental methods . Molecular dynamics modeling was employed to identify the optimal crystal inhibitor for DIP , with Soluplus emerging as the best candidate . This result was further validated through dissolution tests . A dry nanosuspension was then prepared using a wet milling approach followed by freeze-drying . The optimal formulation was evaluated in various dissolution media , resulting in significant improvements . Characterization techniques such as Dynamic Light Scattering ( DLS ) , Powder X-ray Diffraction ( PXRD ) , and Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy ( FESEM ) confirmed the crystalline state and particle size of DIP in the optimal formulation . Subsequent cell and animal studies demonstrated that the optimal formulation outperformed both the commercial product and pure DIP . The absolute bioavailability of pure DIP , commercial tablets , and optimal formulation was 51% , 17% , and 15% , respectively . Physiologically based pharmacokinetic ( PBPK ) modeling was then utilized to predict and evaluate the in vivo behavior for both adult and pediatric populations , showing good performance in both groups . In conclusion , our study successfully developed a DIP dry nanosuspension with improved dissolution and bioavailability , specifically tailored for pediatric use . The combination of computational and experimental methods offers a strong foundation for future formulation development , significantly reducing both time and costs .
Quantum dots ( QDs ) have revolutionized biomedical research yet concerns over their metal-based toxicity have fueled the quest for safer alternatives . This study presents boron-doped carbon quantum dots ( B-CQDs ) as a groundbreaking nanoplatform for targeted drug delivery and bioimaging , as being biocompatible materials . Using a rapid microwave-assisted synthesis , CQDs successfully developed with exceptional fluorescence , high quantum yield , and remarkable stability . When conjugated with the anticancer agent E1 , they demonstrated selective cytotoxicity against breast and lung cancer cells , sparing healthy tissues . In vivo biodistribution studies in BALB/c mice revealed using detailed virtual image analysis and visualization that administration routes ( IV , IP , PO ) emphasized organ-specific accumulation , unlocking potential for precision medicine applications . Strikingly , histopathological analysis confirmed their efficacy and biocompatibility , positioning B-CQDs and anticancer compound E1 as a next-generation theragnostic tool . This study paves the way for safer , more efficient nanocarriers in cancer therapy , merging cutting-edge nanotechnology with precision oncology .
Pseudomonas aeruginosa has two closely related elongation factors , EF-G1A and EF-G1B , which share 90% sequence similarity . Despite their high sequence homology , the role of EF-G in P . aeruginosa pathogenesis remains not fully understood . In our study , we found that compared to EF-G1B , EF-G1A expression reduced bacterial growth and twitching motility , while increasing swimming motility . Notably , EF-G1A was translocated into host cells in a T6SS-dependent manner . This translocation was significantly reduced , though not completely abolished , in strains with mutations in both the T6SS spike protein VgrG1a and the tube protein Hcp1 , suggesting that while EF-G1A translocation is influenced by T6SS , additional components are also involved . Moreover , EF-G1A expression reduced T3SS-mediated morphological alterations , as evidenced by the downregulation of T3SS effectors such as ExoS and ExoT . EF-G1A was also found to suppress activation of the NF-kappaB signaling pathway , leading to decreased production of inflammatory cytokines including IL-6 , IL-8 , and TNFalpha . These findings highlight EF-G1A as a key modulator , affecting both P . aeruginosa physiology and host cellular responses , thereby providing new insights into the complex role of EF-G1A in bacterial pathogenesis .
Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is a common neurodegenerative disease , typically treated with levodopa , which alleviates the motor symptoms of the disease . However , levodopa metabolism in peripheral tissues hampers its bioavailability and leads to undesired side-effects . Therefore , co-administration of amino acid decarboxylase ( AADC ) inhibitors is necessary , but still , up to 50% of levodopa may not reach the brain . Recent evidence suggests that gut microbes , especially Enterococcus faecalis , are also able to metabolize levodopa and affect the bioavailability by utilizing microbial tyrosine decarboxylase ( TyrDC ) enzyme . The main aim of this study was to develop inhibitors targeting gut microbial and host decarboxylation of levodopa . First , a virtual screen of a library of 158 , 000 compounds against E . faecalis TyrDC was conducted , combining three methods : molecular docking against the E . faecalis TyrDC homology model , structure-based pharmacophore model , and shape similarity searches based on levodopa , carbidopa ( AADC inhibitor ) and ( S ) -alpha-fluoromethyltyrosine ( TyrDC inhibitor ) . A total of 394 compounds were selected and tested in vitro by using a cell-based E . faecalis assay measuring inhibition of levodopa metabolism . Three most active compounds ( 49-92% inhibition at 100 microM ) sharing a similar scaffold and a set of commercially available and in-house synthesized analogs were then assessed against purified TyrDC and AADC enzymes . The IC values for the most potent compounds for TyrDC and AADC inhibition were 23 microM / 144 microM ( compound 1 ) , 42 microM / 199 microM ( compound 2 ) and 51 microM / 182 microM ( compound 3 ) , respectively . These compounds also displayed cytotoxic effects on HeLa cells and modest antibacterial activity against E . faecalis at the same concentration range . The core structure of the compounds presented here can serve as a starting point for the development of a new inhibitor class against TyrDC and AADC , and offers a promising avenue for personalized PD treatment , particularly for patients with high levels of gut microbes expressing the levodopa metabolizing TyrDC enzyme .
Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is still an excessively complicated neurological disorder that impacts millions of individuals globally . The ideal defensive feature of the central nervous system ( CNS ) is the intimate junction of endothelial cells , which functions as a biological barrier to safely control molecular transport throughout the brain . The blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) comprises tightly locked astrocyte cell junctions on CNS blood capillaries . This biological barrier shields the brain from hazardous toxins by preventing the entry of polar medications , cells , and ions . However , it is very challenging to provide any treatment to the brain for neurodegenerative illnesses like Alzheimer ' s . Different causative mechanisms , such as amyloid-beta ( Abeta ) plaques , tubulin-associated unit ( Tau ) tangles , and neuroinflammation , cause neuronal dysfunction , leading to dementia and memory loss in the subject . Several treatments are approved for AD therapy , whereas most only help treat related symptoms . Disappointingly , current remedies have not been able to control the progression of AD due to associated side effects . Specific pathogenic mechanisms are involved in the initiation and development of this disease . Therefore , the expected survival of a patient with AD is limited and is approximately ten years . Hence , the pathogenic mechanism behind AD progression must be understood to better comprehend and improve the overall survival rate . This review highlighted the recent insights into AD pathogenesis , molecular mechanisms , advancements in theragnostic techniques , the existing updates of clinical trials , and emerging innovations for AD medicinal development . That has helped researchers develop other strategies to address the shortcomings of traditional medications .
Diabetic foot ulcer ( DFU ) , a severe complication of diabetes mellitus , presents significant clinical challenges due to its rapid deterioration and high morbidity rates . While conventional therapies exist kinds of limitations , their clinical utility is frequently constrained . Recent advancements in biomedical engineering have introduced innovative therapeutic modalities , particularly nanomaterials and hydrogels . However , emerging technologies face translational barriers including immature manufacturing processes leading to elevated costs , and insufficient long-term safety data due to limited clinical validation periods . Current clinical studies remain constrained by small cohort sizes and preliminary-stage investigations . The purpose of this study was to review traditional primary treatment and simultaneously combine clinical data to increase the speed of innovative safety , cost , and effectiveness indicator testing .
Saccharomyces cerevisiae sake strains exhibit high alcoholic fermentation performance . Comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed that the expression of genes required for nitrogen sensing and metabolism , including amino acid biosynthesis and uptake , was markedly lower in the sake strain than in the laboratory strain . Thus , we hypothesized that changes in nitrogen metabolism affect the fermentation capability of S . cerevisiae . To evaluate the impact of altered nitrogen metabolism on alcoholic fermentation , we focused on the transcription activators Gcn4p , Gln3p , and Gat1p , and the protein kinase Npr1p , all of which are key regulators controlling expression of genes for amino acid biosynthesis and uptake responding to nitrogen availability . Fermentation tests demonstrated that laboratory strain-derived single-deletion mutants of the regulator genes exhibited higher fermentation performance than the parental strain , which was accompanied by decrease in intracellular amino acid levels in the mutants . Disruption of the genes encoding glutamate dehydrogenases , which play a central role in nitrogen assimilation , also enhanced the fermentation rate . A Greatwall family protein kinase Rim15p inhibits alcoholic fermentation by diverting carbon flux from glycolysis to the synthesis of 1 , 3-beta-glucan , a major cell wall component . Since the content of 1 , 3-beta-glucan was unaffected by disruption of the regulator genes , the elevated fermentation performance of the disruptants was accomplished independently of the signaling pathway governed by Rim15p . The high fermentation rate of the disruptants might be attributed to increased carbon entry into glycolysis caused by the compromised biosynthesis of amino acids , which are synthesized from intermediary metabolites of glycolysis and tricarboxylic acid cycle .
BACKGROUND : A platelet function defect ( PFD ) is diagnosed in patients with mild to moderate bleeding disorders ( MBD ) and abnormalities in light transmission aggregometry ( LTA ) . The influence of platelet aging on platelet function in PFD remains unclear . METHODS : Twenty-two patients with LTA alterations from the Vienna Bleeding Biobank were compared to 19 age- and sex-matched healthy controls . Blood samples were immediately analyzed using PFA-100 with epinephrine cartridges . Platelets subtypes were characterized via surface receptor profiling of CD9 , CD31 , CD36 , CD40L , CD42b , CD62P , CD63 , CD107 and toll like receptors ( TLRs ) 2 , 4 and 9 and immature ( RNA-rich ) platelets were quantified . RESULTS : Platelet counts , immature platelet fraction , and mean platelet volume , as well as other hemostatic parameters , did not differ between patients and controls , while patients demonstrated prolonged closure times ( CT ) on PFA- Principal component analysis highlighted distinct glycoprotein expression patterns between immature and mature platelets in both their resting state and after activation , in patients and healthy controls . In patients , immature platelets expressed lower levels of CD62P , CD36 , CD31 , TLR2 , and TLR4 , but increased TLR9 expression , while mature platelets showed no differences . These distinct surface receptor patterns of immature platelets were partly associated with reduced TRAP-6-induced platelet aggregation . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrates significant alterations in surface receptor expression on immature platelets in patients with suspected PFD , underscoring immature platelets as crucial link to platelet biology and clinical symptoms in this patient population .
PURPOSE : The study aim was to evaluate efficacy and safety of brachytherapy for the treatment of early-stage tongue carcinoma and identify factors associated with the risk of local recurrence . The interest is to discuss the contribution of brachytherapy among therapeutics of tongue tumors treatments . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Between January 2010 and December 2020 , 55 patients with T1T2N0 tongue primitive squamous cell carcinomas were treated with interstitial low-dose-rate , pulsed-dose-rate , or high-dose-rate brachytherapy , with or without neck dissection , at the Centre Oscar Lambret of Lille . The primary objective was to evaluate the efficacy of brachytherapy in terms of local recurrence-free survival ( LRFS ) . The secondary objectives were to estimate regional recurrence-free survival ( RRFS ) , overall survival ( OS ) , and to describe toxicities of brachytherapy . RESULTS : Local recurrence-free survival ( LRFS ) rates at 1-year , 3-years , and 5-years follow-up were 9% , 9% , and 4% , respectively . The cumulative incidences of local recurrence at 1-year , 3-years , and 5-years follow-up were 8% , 2% , and 3% , respectively ; Overall survival ( OS ) rates at 1-year , 3-years , and 5-years follow-up were 9% , 2% , and 4% , respectively , with a 95% confidence interval ( CI ) . We identified 14 ( 5% ) grade 3 complications and 10 ( 1% ) grade 2 complications . Age at diagnosis ( p<001 ) , smoking ( p=018 ) , and tumor stage ( p=009 ) were found to be significant prognostic factors ( p<05 ) for LRFS . CONCLUSION : Brachytherapy is a moderate effective treatment option for early-stage tongue carcinoma . Despite the frequent toxicities generated this approach offers several notable advantages , including preservation of oral anatomy and functions , ultimately leading to an improved quality of life for patients .
BACKGROUND : Vascular inflammation is a key contributor to cancer progression and metastasis . Tumor endothelial cells ( TECs ) respond to microbial , metabolic , and therapeutic stimuli by upregulating adhesion molecules and cytokines , which facilitates tumor cell adhesion and immune evasion . HIGHLIGHT : This review focuses on three representative vascular inflammatory triggers : Streptococcus mutans-induced endothelial activation , the oxLDL/LOX-1 signaling axis , and chemotherapy-induced vascular dysfunction . These mechanisms converge to establish a pre-metastatic niche . Emerging strategies including microbiota modulation , metabolic targeting , and low-dose metronomic ( LDM ) chemotherapy , have shown promise in preclinical studies for preserving vascular integrity and reducing inflammation . CONCLUSION : Targeting vascular inflammation is a novel therapeutic approach to suppressing metastasis and cardiovascular events . Further studies are required to validate predictive biomarkers and optimize these strategies for clinical applications .
OBJECTIVE : This study explored the molecular mechanism of adipose-derived stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles ( ADSC-EVs ) improving post-sepsis-associated acute kidney injury ( S-AKI ) tubular epithelial cell ( TEC ) apoptosis by modulating ADAM17/MerTK-mediated macrophage efferocytosis . METHODS : The S-AKI mouse model was established by caecal ligation and puncture and intravenously injected with ADSC-EVs . Mouse kidney macrophages were cultured with LPS , cultured with EVs while transfecting with oe-ADAM17 or si-MerTK , then incubated with Jurkat cells . Mouse serum urea and creatinine , and KIM-1 , efferocytosis- and apoptosis-related protein , inflammatory factor , cytokine , and soluble MerTK ( sMerTK ) levels were determined using colorimetric assay , immunohistochemistry , Western blot , and ELISA . Renal tubular injury , TEC apoptosis , macrophage efferocytosis , and M1/M2 polarization levels were assessed via HE staining , TUNEL staining , immunofluorescence , and flow cytometry , respectively . In vivo validation experiments were conducted . RESULTS : S-AKI mice displayed elevated levels of serum urea , creatinine , KIM-1 , pro-inflammatory factors , pro-apoptotic proteins and ADAM17 protein , decreased anti-apoptotic protein and MerTK protein levels , and diminished M2 polarization . ADSC-EVs down-regulated ADAM17 and sMerTK , and increased cell membrane MerTK , macrophage recognition of apoptotic cells and efferocytosis , and M2 polarization in renal tissues of S-AKI mice and LPS-induced mouse renal macrophages , indicating that ADSC-EVs regulated ADAM17/MerTK-mediated macrophage efferocytosis and promoted M2 polarization . MerTK silencing partially reversed ADSC-EVs-regulated LPS-induced mouse renal macrophage efferocytosis and M2 polarization . In vivo , ADAM17 upregulation partly averted ADSC-EVs-regulated post-S-AKI TEC apoptosis in mouse renal tissues . CONCLUSION : ADSC-EVs down-regulated sMerTK level and up-regulated macrophage membrane MerTK protein level by modulating ADAM17 to promote macrophage efferocytosis and ameliorate post-S-AKI TEC apoptosis and inflammation .
Chemotherapy is a cornerstone treatment for acute leukemia ( AL ) , but it often results in bone marrow ( BM ) failure , leading to infections , anemia , and bleeding , which significantly impact patient survival . Endothelial progenitor cells ( EPCs ) are critical elements of the BM microenvironment and are essential for hematopoiesis . Our previous research using in vitro and AML mouse models indicated that BM EPC dysfunction , characterized by impaired angiogenesis and elevated reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) levels in AML patients , could be partially reversed after complete remission ( CR ) and further improved with N-acetyl-L-cysteine ( NAC ) treatment . This pilot cohort study ( NCT06024031 , www . clinicaltrials . gov ) evaluated the effects of NAC on hematopoietic recovery in 30 newly diagnosed AML patients after induction chemotherapy , compared to a propensity-matched control group of 60 patients . Patients received oral NAC ( 400 mg , three times daily ) for 28 days post-chemotherapy alongside standard supportive care . NAC treatment did not affect CR rates ( 90% vs . 80% , P=23 ) , but significantly shortened platelet recovery time ( 19 vs . 22 days , P=0001 ) among CR patients . NAC improved EPC percentages , reduced ROS , and enhanced EPC hematopoiesis-supporting functions in patients who achieved CR . NAC was safe and effective in promoting normal hematopoiesis recovery in AML patients in CR following chemotherapy .
Developing alternative methods for rat carcinogenicity studies remains challenging . This study aimed to establish a read-across method to predict nongenotoxic carcinogenicity in rats using molecular descriptors and in vitro assays . Based on 2-year rat carcinogenicity study results of agrochemicals , 80 compounds that caused benign or malignant tumors in the liver , thyroid , testis , uterus , ovary , breast , nasal cavity , stomach , or bladder/urethra and 46 compounds that did not were selected and subjected to cell-based cytotoxicity assays . Here , we focused on tumors associated with epithelial cell injury ( nasal cavity , stomach , and bladder/urethra tumors ) . The read-across prediction was performed using neighboring substances , which were selected based on the Euclidean distance between the substances calculated using molecular descriptors . In some cases , neighboring substances were further selected based on the concordance of the in vitro assay results . The selection of neighboring substances based on the carcinogenicity-relevant descriptors and then on the cytotoxicity assay data improved the prediction accuracy ( balanced accuracy : 752-821 ) compared to the accuracy with substances selected based on unselected descriptors alone ( balanced accuracy : 294-582 ) . These results suggest that the combined use of carcinogenicity-relevant descriptors and in vitro assays related to carcinogenic mechanisms is useful for read-across prediction of cytotoxicity-related tumors in rats .
The aim of this study was to investigate the regulation of triptolide on Rab7-mediated lipophagy to elucidate the potential association between lipophagy and ferroptosis in triptolide-induced hepatotoxicity . Human normal liver HL7702 cells and C57BL/6J mice were treated with triptolide to establish in vitro and in vivo models . The results revealed that triptolide caused a severe hepatic cell damage in vitro and in vivo . Concurrently , triptolide induced the remarkable activation of Rab7-mediated lipophagy , as evidenced by the decreased levels of lipid droplets and p62 , the increased Rab7 , microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 ( LC3 ) and phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) levels , as well as the increased colocalization of LC3 and Rab7 proteins . Moreover , triptolide obviously increased the levels of ferroptotic markers , including MDA , iron , prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase 2 , and induced GSH and GPX4 exhaustion and oxidative stress in hepatic cells . Importantly , the inhibition of lipophagy mitigated ferroptosis and alleviated the hepatic cell damage induced by triptolide . our results demonstrated that triptolide-activated lipophagy with Rab7 serves as a pivotal factor in triggering ferroptosis and exacerbating hepatoxicity . The manipulation of lipophagy is thus a potential therapeutic strategy for ameliorating triptolide-induced hepatotoxicity .
Dry eye disease ( DED ) is a chronic , progressive , multifactorial condition characterized by tear film instability and ocular surface damage . Ocular surface inflammation , triggered by multiple pathogenic factors , represents one of the key mechanisms in DED pathogenesis . This study aims to investigate the therapeutic effects of anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages conditioned medium ( M2-CM ) on ocular surface inflammation and their potential mechanisms in improving dry eye symptoms in a mouse model . Mouse macrophages ( RAW7 ) were polarized into M2 macrophages by IL-4 under different osmolarities , and M2-CM was collected . Flow cytometry and ELISA were applied to measure the cytokine expression of the M2 macrophages . Primary mouse corneal epithelial cells ( CECs ) were co-cultured with RAW7 and M2 macrophages using a Transwell system . The viability and migration of CECs were assessed using CCK-8 and scratch assays . Mouse DED was established by subcutaneous injection of scopolamine , and the therapeutic effects of M2-CM were evaluated by phenol red thread test , fluorescein staining , and tear film breakup time ( TBUT ) . PCR and immunofluorescence staining were applied to observe inflammatory factors and cells on the ocular surface . M2 macrophages enhanced CEC viability , proliferation , and migration , but hyperosmolarity inhibited M2 macrophage polarization . In the DED model , M2-CM improved ocular surface conditions , reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression , and increased anti-inflammatory factors . Immunofluorescence revealed reduced pro-inflammatory cells ( M1 macrophages , Th1 , and Th17 ) and increased M2 macrophages in the ocular tissues after M2-CM treatment . These results suggest that M2-CM ameliorates ocular surface inflammation and promotes recovery in DED , offering a potential therapeutic strategy for DED .
Density gradient equilibrium analytical ultracentrifugation ( DGE-AUC ) was first introduced in The method saw significant use over the following decade . Since then , DGE-AUC has been used by polymer and genomic DNA fields . Emerging medicine has revived interest in the technique for characterization of cell and gene therapeutics . While several model-dependent approaches exist to determine density at any point along a density gradient at equilibrium , there is ample evidence in the vast density gradient literature that indicates the presence of pressure effects , solvent compressibility , and general nonideal behavior of the gradient medium that are not easily accounted for in models describing the density gradient . These complications mandated the general use of reference materials and standard conditions . With an interest in buoyant density determination for particles of various composition , an approach that does not rely on standards is desirable . The current manuscript details a fundamental model-independent method for determination of buoyant density by DGE-AUC . An examination of this novel method is presented in the context of NISTmAb and DNA in a CsCl gradient , as well as polystyrene beads in a sucrose gradient . The method described herein is broadly applicable to determine the buoyant density of a particle in a density gradient medium .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the role of silencing information regulator 2 related enzyme 1 ( SIRT1 ) and its small ubiquitin-like modifier ( SUMO ) modification ( SUMOylation ) in hyperoxia lung injury in preterm infants . METHODS : The roles of SIRT1 and its SUMOylation in hyperoxia-induced damage to HAECs were explored from the cellular level using CCK-8 , MTT , scratch assay , reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , Mito SOX , BeyoClick EdU-488 , immunofluorescence and Western-blot , mitochondrial membrane potential , malondialdehyde and superoxide dismutase assays , MitoTracker ( R ) Red CMXRos , transmission electron microscopy , and SIRT1 activity assay . Type II alveolar epithelial cell-specific knockout SENP1 mice were constructed . The role of SUMOylation of SIRT1 in hyperoxia lung injury in mice was explored in vivo by HE staining , immunohistochemistry , immunofluorescence , Western-blot and transmission electron microscopy . RESULTS : Hyperoxia increased ROS in HAECs and decreased cell proliferation levels and survival , as well as reduced the expression of peroxisome-proliferator-gamma coactivator-1alpha ( PGC-1alpha ) , nuclear respiratory factor 1 ( NRF1 ) , mitochondrial transcription factor A ( TFAM ) , optic atrophy protein 1 ( OPA1 ) , mitofusins 1 ( MFN1 ) , and mitofusins 2 ( MFN2 ) proteins . N-Acetylcysteine inhibited SIRT1 nucleoplasmic shuttling and reversed the hyperoxia-induced decrease in SUMO1 and increase in SENP SRT1720 reversed the hyperoxia-induced decrease of PGC-1alpha , NRF1 , TFAM , MFN1 , MFN2 and OPA1 proteins . Overexpression of SUMO1 increased total SIRT1 and nuclear SIRT1 but decreased cytoplasmic SIRT1 protein expression levels , attenuated hyperoxia-induced mitochondrial injury . On day 14 of hyperoxia exposure , type II alveolar epithelial cell-specific knockout SENP1 mice showed reduced lung injury , increased lung tissue total SIRT1 and nuclear SIRT1 but decreased cytoplasmic SIRT1 protein expression , and reduced mitochondrial injury . CONCLUSION : Hyperoxia increases ROS levels to decrease SIRT1 and SUMO1 levels , thereby inhibiting mitochondrial biogenesis and fusion , and promotion of SIRT1 and its SUMOylation improves mitochondrial biogenesis and fusion , thereby attenuating hyperoxia lung injury .
BACKGROUND : SLP65/SLP76 , Csk-interacting membrane protein ( SCIMP ) , is a membrane protein plays a crucial role in the regulation of macrophage polarization . This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of SCIMP-mediated M1 polarization in liver macrophages and ischemia-reperfusion injury ( IRI ) in liver transplantation . METHODS : Mice underwent orthotopic liver transplantation . In in vivo experiments , mice were divided into the Sham group , LT group , LT+Scramble group , LT+SCIMP ( - ) group , and LT+ERK1/2 ( - ) group , and SCIMP or ERK1/2 knockdown was performed using AAV-Erk1/2-RNAi-F4/80-EGFP and AAV-SCIMP-RNAi-F4/80-EGFP . In the subsequent in vitro experiments with primary cells , macrophages were divided into the Ctrl group , H/R group , H/R+Scramble group , H/R+SCIMP ( - ) group , and H/R+ERK1/2 ( - ) group , with SCIMP knockdown achieved using siRNA . Immunoprecipitation ( IP ) was used to detect the interaction between TLR4 and Erk1/ Liver damage was detected by Hematoxylin and eosin ( HE ) staining . Polarization was detected by western blot ( WB ) , RT-PCR , immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) , immunofluorescence technique ( IF ) , enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) and flow cytometry ( FC ) . RESULTS : Knockdown of SCIMP ameliorated hepatic IRI and liver macrophages M1 polarization . Mechanically , SCIMP promoted the interaction between Erk1/2 and TLR4 in hypoxia/reoxygenation ( H/R ) -induced liver macrophages , while the inhibition of Erk1/2 reduced liver macrophages M1 polarization and liver IRI . CONCLUSION : SCIMP promotes hepatic ischemia-reperfusion injury by activating TLR4/Erk1/2-mediated liver macrophages M1 polarization , which might become a potential therapeutic target in clinic .
Dysregulated inflammation , thrombosis , and immunity are fundamental pathological mechanisms underlying a wide range of human diseases . Limitations inherent in existing animal models for studying these complex processes and evaluating therapeutic interventions necessitate the development of more physiologically relevant systems . Here , we report the establishment and characterization of a humanized PSGL-1 transgenic ( hPSGL-1 TG ) Bama miniature pig model . Beginning at two months postnatally postnatally , hPSGL-1 TG pigs exhibited overt inflammatory signs , including rhinorrhea and diarrhea . Progressive cardiac dysfunction , marked by significantly reduced ejection fraction , developed prior to humane endpoints , resulting in a median survival of 5 days . Postmortem analysis revealed extensive fibrinous thrombi occluding cardiac and pulmonary vasculature , indicative of severe , systemic thrombosis . Consistent with this thromboembolic phenotype , coagulation profiling demonstrated a profound hypercoagulable state . Histological examination further revealed widespread inflammatory cell infiltration within thrombotic lesions , ventricular myocardium , lung , and colon . Circulating levels of key inflammatory cytokines , including IL-4 , IL-6 , and TGF-beta1 , were significantly elevated . Conversely , analysis of peripheral blood immune cell populations showed depletion of monocytes and CD8beta + T cells . In conclusion , this is the first report to generated a hPSGL-1 TG miniature pig model and underscores the critical role of hPSGL-1 in severe thrombosis , inflammation , and complex alterations in peripheral immune cell populations . This novel model serves as a valuable tool for investigating the mechanistic contributions of hPSGL-1 to these pathological processes and provides a compelling preclinical platform for the development and evaluation of hPSGL-1-targeted therapies .
BACKGROUND : Sodium of Danshensu ( SDSS ) , extract of salvia miltiorrhiza root , has been shown to have neuroprotective effects on ischemic stroke ( IS ) in our previous studies . However , its therapeutic time window and mechanism of action remain unclear . Ferroptosis exerts a crucial feature in the development and progression of IS . Nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) can positively regulate the transcription of Recombinant Solute Carrier Family 7 , member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) and glutathione peroxidase ( GPX4 ) genes that combat lipid peroxidation in ferroptosis . PURPOSE : The current study aimed to assess therapeutic time window of SDSS and the pharmacological mechanism involved in Nrf2-mediated oxidative stress and ferroptosis . METHODS : Mice with transient middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) and HT22 cells with oxygen-glucose deprivation / reoxygenation ( OGD/R ) were induced to simulate IS . Mice were administered SDSS at 1 , 3 , 6 or 9h after MCAO to determine the therapeutic time window of SDSS . MicroRNA-seq was conducted to analyze differentially expressed genes in both the MCAO and the SDSS treatment group . The interaction between SDSS and Nrf2 was also investigated using molecular docking , molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations , and surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) experiments . Furthermore , the neuroprotection of SDSS was investigated in Nrf2-deficient mice to assess the activation mechanism of the Nrf2/GPX4 axis by SDSS . The biomarkers ( Fe ( 2+ ) content , ROS , MDA , GSH , GSH/GSSG ) , mitochondrial structure , these proteins ( Nrf2 , SLC7A11 , GPX4 , FTH1 , HO-1 , ACSL4 and TFRC ) expression were detected by commercial kits , transmission electron microscope ( TEM ) and Western blotting , respectively . RESULTS : The therapeutic time window of SDSS should be within 6hours after MCAO , beyond which SDSS cannot play a therapeutic role . SDSS played a neuroprotective affection in mice and HT22 cells by restraining ROS , MDA and Fe ( 2+ ) content , elevating GSH level and GSH/GSSG ratio . At the molecular mechanism , SDSS can bind to Nrf2 , improve Nrf2 activity and nuclear expression , further enhance SLC7A11 , GPX4 , FTH1 , HO-1 expression and reduce ACSL4 and TFRC expression . However , the neuroprotective effects of SDSS and its effect on ferroptosis-related proteins were partially reversed in Nrf2-deficient mice . CONCLUSION : The therapeutic time window of SDSS for ischemic stroke is relatively wide . The administration of SDSS can potentially mitigate brain damage through the inhibition of oxidative damage and ferroptosis , which is partly regulated by the Nrf2/GPX4 axis . Therefore , SDSS is a promising candidate for the treatment of ischemic stroke .
BACKGROUND : The nuclear factor kappa-light-chain enhancer of activated B cells ( NF-kappaB ) pathway is a key regulator of immune responses , cell survival , and proliferation . Dysregulation of this signaling pathway is implicated in various human diseases , including inborn errors of immunity . OBJECTIVE : We describe the clinical heterogeneity in 16 patients from 4 unrelated families with missense variants in the kinase domain of IKK2 encoded by IKBKB . METHODS : Genetic variants ( p . V203I and p . M65T ) in the patients were identified by whole-exome sequencing . An NF-kappaB reporter assay was performed to investigate NF-kappaB activity . Extensive immunophenotyping , a lymphocyte proliferation assay , and signaling pathway analysis were performed to gain biological insight into the impact on B- and T-cell phenotype and function . RESULTS : Whole-exome sequencing revealed 2 gain-of-function variants in the IKBKB gene , of which one was a novel variant . While lymphocyte cell numbers are generally normal at young ages , most adult patients exhibit strongly reduced B- and T-cell numbers . Although still normal in their proliferative capacity , B and T cells show defective activation at day 3 ( CD70 , CD25 , and CD40L expression ) and impaired B-cell differentiation into plasmablasts . Altered NF-kappaB signaling was evidenced by phosphoflow experiments . These findings coincide with autoinflammatory skin manifestations , systemic infections with progressive lymphopenia , and potentially fatal diseases occurring later in life . CONCLUSION : This study broadens the clinical spectrum of IKBKB gain-of-function variants as a progressive immunodeficiency in adulthood .
Traffic-related air pollution is a major public health concern , contributing to respiratory and cardiovascular diseases worldwide . The aim of this study was to investigate the feasibility of using a mobile Air-Liquid Interface ( ALI ) system to assess the cytotoxicity and inflammatory potential of freshly generated PM ( 5 ) ( particle matter with aerodynamic diameter <5 mum ) in a road tunnel in Stockholm . We hypothesized that cellular effects would be detectable at lower doses compared to submerged exposures . The mean particle dose in ALI was 4+/-8 mug/cm , whereas a wide range of doses was used for submerged exposures . ALI and submerged results showed that PM ( 5 ) from the road tunnel did not affect the viability of A549 cells , whereas a significant and dose-dependent decrease in viability of dTHP-1 ( in submerged exposure ) was observed . Furthermore , in A549 in ALI a slight increase in inflammatory response ( IL-8 , IL-6 , and IL-1beta ) was observed . In submerged exposure , the inflammatory response was clearer , particularly in the dTHP-1 cells . In conclusion , this study presents the first successfully conducted in situ ALI exposure in a road tunnel . The results demonstrate that dTHP-1 cells exhibit clear cytotoxic and inflammatory responses , while A549 show only weak effects . These findings suggest that co-cultures of A549 and dTHP-1 may be valuable in future ALI studies .
This month ' s Views and Reviews opens a window to the future . What lies on the horizon for Assisted Reproduction and gamete/embryo biology . We focus on invitro gametogenesis and germline editing . Chuva de Sousa Lopes , et . al . review the current state of the science of female germ cell development . This well supported section recognizes the progress made and the unique aspect of oogenesis that make full maturation and reproductive capacity difficult . Dr . Amato , et . al . address germline editing and the potential capacity to prevent transmission of monogenic diseases with significant morbidity and mortality that currently have no effective treatments . Finally , Cohen and Adashi address critical ethical and legal issues surrounding these developing technologies . What does the future hold and how do we best assure ourselves we are prepared to wisely introduce these new technologies when they become available .
Kinesin family member 18B ( KIF18B ) is expressed differently in multiple malignancies and contributes to tumorigenesis . However , the relevance of KIF18B in glioma remains undetermined . This work evaluated the level and clinical significance of KIF18B in glioma . The upregulation of KIF18B was frequently detected in glioma specimens , which was related to clinicopathological features and therapeutic outcomes . A decrease in KIF18B expression in glioma cells was found to suppress malignant proliferation and metastasis , while simultaneously enhancing the cells ' sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents . Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated a significant correlation between KIF18B and the Notch signaling pathway in glioma cells . Further experimental validation confirmed that silencing KIF18B effectively inhibited the activation of the Notch signaling pathway . Reactivation of the Notch signaling pathway remarkably reversed the cancer-suppressing effects of KIF18B knockdown . Moreover , the ability of KIF18B-silenced glioma cells to form xenografts in nude mice was markedly impaired , accompanied by the downregulation of the Notch signaling pathway . This work indicates that KIF18 is crucial for maintaining glioma progression and proposes its potential as a promising therapeutic target for glioma treatment .
BACKGROUND : Recurrence is a significant concern after sublobar resection for clinical T1N0M0 lung cancer . Identifying modifiable risk factors is essential for improving oncologic outcomes . OBJECTIVE : This review examines recurrence risk factors following sublobar resection , focusing on disease stage , tumor characteristics , and surgeon-related factors . METHODS : Data from randomized trials and retrospective studies were analyzed to assess the impact of tumor biology , stage , surgical margins , and lymph node dissection on recurrence . RESULTS : Recurrence is influenced by tumor stage , biology , and surgical technique . While tumor characteristics and stage are non-modifiable , inadequate surgical margins and incomplete nodal dissection significantly increase recurrence risk . A margin of >/=1 cm or equal to the tumor diameter is associated with lower recurrence rates . Systematic nodal dissection enhances staging accuracy and informs adjuvant therapy . Although sublobar resection is non-inferior to lobectomy in select cases , inadequate margins and suboptimal nodal assessment elevate recurrence risk . CONCLUSION : Surgical margins and lymph node dissection are the most critical modifiable risk factors for recurrence . To optimize long-term survival , adequate margins and systematic nodal evaluation should be prioritized . Further research is needed to assess the role of completion lobectomy or adjuvant therapy , particularly in patients with multiple high-risk features .
The members of the PadR family of transcriptional regulators are important for cell survival in toxic environments and play an important role in detoxification , pathogenicity , and multi-drug resistance . Rv0047c of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv is annotated as a PadR family protein . We have characterized the stability and structure of Rv0047c . Rv0047c forms a stable dimer in solution . Its stability is characterized by a thermal melting transition temperature ( Tm ) of 3 degrees C . The crystal structure of Rv0047c was determined at a resolution of 15 A . The structure indicates the biological unit to be dimer with each monomer having a characteristic N-terminal winged-helix-turn-helix DNA binding domain and a C-terminal dimerization domain . The N-terminal domain is composed of four helices , alpha1 , alpha2 , alpha3 , and alpha4 and two beta strands beta1 and beta The C-terminal dimerization domain ( CTD ) consists two long helices alpha6 and alpha The two domains are connected by helix alpha A short helical turn ( helix alphaa , residue 89-92 ) , leads to compaction of the alpha4-alpha5 loop . Rv0047c exhibits specificity in binding to an upstream region having an inverted repeat sequence . This binding is dependent upon Y18 and Y40 residue of Rv0047c , which are highly conserved among the PadR family . Overall , our results suggest a transcription regulatory role for Rv0047c , similar to other PadR family proteins .
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are key regulators of cancer pathogenesis , and their expression is often dysregulated in cancer cells . The role of miR-196a-5p has been investigated in various types of cancers , however it is relatively less understood in B-cell malignancies . This study aimed to investigate the role of miR-196a-5p in B cells by using a human diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) cell line , SU-DHL-6 and mouse B lymphocytes . The enforced expression of miR-196a in SU-DHL-6 cells increased daunorubicin-mediated apoptosis . Luciferase assay revealed that FOXO1 was a direct target of miR-196a-5p in SU-DHL-6 cells . The mRNA and protein expression of FOXO1 was downregulated in miR-196a-overexpressing SU-DHL-6 cells . In addition , miR-196a-5p was highly expressed in mouse bone marrow ( BM ) cells , compared with that of splenic ( SP ) B cells , and FOXO1 expression was negatively correlated with miR-196a-5p level . miR-196a-5p was upregulated by B cell receptor ( BCR ) -stimulation , which was inversely correlated with FOXO1 expression in SP B cells . Apoptosis was increased when miR-196a-5p was upregulated in murine primary B cells . These results identify miR-196a-5p as a post-transcriptional regulator of FOXO1 and indicate its importance in regulating B cell malignancies and activation .
Nonsense-mediated mRNA decay ( NMD ) eliminates transcripts containing premature termination codons ( PTCs ) , thereby preventing errors in protein synthesis . Serine/Threonine-protein kinase SMG1 is a crucial kinase for NMD response , interacting with other regulatory proteins such as SMG8 and SMG We identified a de novo heterozygous variant in SMG1 p . Gln2398Glu ( c . 7192C>G ) in a patient with global developmental delay , facial dysmorphism , and oculomotor apraxia . Thus , stem cell models with SMG1 mutations using gene editing technology were established to address the functional consequences of this mutation . While mutations causing the reduction in SMG1 gene dosage by alterations in splicing ( c . 7192_7194delinsGAA ; GAA/+ ) or frameshift ( c . 4331_4337del ; KO/+ ) led to a mild but significant reduction of NMD activity , NMD activity was not altered in cells with the SMG1 GAG/+ mutation . Furthermore , cortical organoids from hPSC ( GAA/+ ) exhibited size reduction compared to the control ( CTL ) or GAG/+ , suggesting that reduced NMD activity can affect nervous system development . These findings suggest that hypomorphic SMG1 mutations can cause reduced NMD activity and subsequent biological responses , while the mutation found in the patient alone may not be sufficient to induce pathological symptoms .
The advancement of single-molecule imaging techniques has significantly enhanced our understanding of biomolecular reactions and cellular processes that remain obscured in ensemble measurements . In particular , DNA curtains are high-throughput hybrid methods integrating total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy , lipid fluidity , microfluidics , and nano-fabrication , enabling the direct visualization of protein-DNA interactions in real time . The techniques have emerged as powerful tools for probing molecular dynamics of diverse DNA metabolic processes , including DNA damage repair and chromatin dynamics . This review not only highlights recent applications of DNA curtain techniques for elucidating mechanisms underlying DNA damage repair and chromatin dynamics , but also shows how DNA curtain techniques have provided novel insights into the interplay between DNA metabolic processes in the chromatin context .
Myopia is a prevalent refractive eye disorder closely associated with alterations in corneal biomechanical properties . As fundamental units of corneal tissue , corneal cells significantly influence myopia progression through their nanomechanical characteristics . However , the biophysical mechanisms underlying this process , particularly in human corneal cells , remain unclear . This study investigates the coupling between mechanical properties and cytoskeletal morphology in human corneal cells across varying myopia severity levels . Utilizing atomic force microscopy ( AFM ) , the Young ' s modulus and adhesion properties of corneal cells obtained from patients with low , moderate , and high myopia were assessed . Additionally , the cytoskeletal morphological variations were quantified by calculating the fractal dimension from AFM topography images . Experimental results reveal that with increasing myopia severity , corneal cells exhibit decreased stiffness , increased adhesion , and reduced regularity and stability of the cytoskeletal network . These evidences highlight a coupling relationship between biomechanical properties and cytoskeletal morphology in human corneal cells during myopia development at the cellular scale , offering significant insights into the pathogenesis of myopia and potential avenues for innovative preventive strategies .
This position paper reviews the various effects of combination therapy by photobiomodulation therapy ( PBMT ) and stem cells , on different parts of the body . The aim of this paper is to reach consensus on recommendations for the parameters of PBMT regarding its application on stem cells . A significant number of studies involving PBMT , and stem cells have been published . The advantages of this combination therapy on tissue regeneration , cell differentiation and proliferation , and healing have been reported in many studies . Due to the diverse nature of study designs used with respect to light parameters , as well as a lack of well designed , ethically approved clinical trials , clinicians may benefit from suggested guidelines for clinical application based on data obtained from previous studies . These guidelines would also help researchers in designing future studies . An in-depth review of literature on the effect of PBMT on stem cells at a molecular , cellular and tissue specific level was performed , using experts in each field of PBMT . Depending on the number of studies in each field , recommendations are presented which can suggest further studies on stem cells and PBMT . PBMT has diverse applications on stem cells . Both in-vivo and in-vitro studies represent the effectiveness of PBMT in conjunction with stem cell therapy in cell proliferation , differentiation , tissue regeneration , wound healing , angiogenesis , and treatment of different diseases . However , there is a considerable lack of clinical studies in all the reviewed fields . In each category , we attempted to recommend a PBMT protocol based on information from literature , experience , and expertise . Protocols for PBMT on stem cells were reviewed in each field of medicine , and recommendations were made for further clinical studies . Not surprising , the main wavelengths used in PBMT studies in relation to stem cells , were in the range of 630-660 nm , and 800-890 nm . However , other laser parameters are in a very wide range of difference , depending on the tissue that PBMT was applied or the aim of its application .
We synthesized five novel diiron ( I ) complexes with a varying S-functionalized vinyliminium ligand , 3a-e , which were structurally characterized by IR and NMR spectroscopy , and single crystal X-ray diffraction in one representative case . Based on NMR and UV-Vis methods , these complexes show adequate water solubility ( 3 - 19 mM ) , balanced amphiphilicity ( Log P ( ow ) values ranging from -46 to 16 ) , and substantial stability in physiological-like solutions ( > 90% unchanged after 24 h in DMEM cell culture medium ) . The cytotoxicity of the N-cyclohexyl complexes 3a-d was determined on human ( A2780 , A375 , MCF-7 ) and murine cancer ( B16F10 , 4T1 ) cell lines . The leading compound 3d , featuring methylthio-group , N-cyclohexyl and 4-methoxyphenyl substituents , exhibited IC values in the low micromolar range and demonstrated remarkable selectivity for malignant phenotypes . Several in-depth experiments were conducted to elucidate the biochemistry of 3d , including evaluation of cell death induction , proliferation rate and cellular redox status . Spectroelectrochemical and binding studies with DNA and bovine serum albumin ( BSA ) were also conducted . Despite its similarity to cisplatin in inducing apoptosis , the redox signature of 3d is distinct , characterized by a strong scavenging potential of reactive oxygen and nitrogen species ( ROS and RNS ) .
In this study , we investigated the inhibitory activity of novel dodecylaminoquinuclidines ( QAs ) on neurotransmitter-hydrolyzing enzymes , specifically acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) and butyrylcholinesterase ( BChE ) . Following our previous findings , we modified the structure of a lead compound to develop more potent modulators of cholinesterase activity . The search for such inhibitors remains a key focus in the therapeutic management of organophosphate poisoning and various neurological disorders . For the design , we retained the aliphatic side linker and introduced various benzyl-based substituents to the quinuclidinium core , resulting in a set of 11 new compounds . All of these derivatives exhibited reversible inhibition of cholinesterase within the micromolar concentration range . The most significant factor affecting inhibition was the positional change of a specific group on the benzene ring , shifting from the meta to the para position . Specifically , analogues with groups in the meta position showed a stronger inhibition of AChE , whereas the para position was more effective for BChE . The most potent inhibitor featured a -CH or -Br substituent , with a K ( i ) of around 7-0 muM ( meta-position ) for AChE and 3-5 muM ( para-position ) for BChE . Additionally , we assessed the cytotoxicity of these compounds on human neuronal SH-SY5Y cells , as their intended target in the body . As all tested quinuclidine derivatives demonstrated certain level of cytotoxicity within the range of 5-17 muM , further research is needed to explore this effect , and to validate or negate their potential for development into therapeutic agents .
Insulin resistance ( IR ) plays a significant role in the pathophysiology of comorbid type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) and depression ( CDD ) through multifaceted mechanisms , including dysregulation of insulin signaling ( both central and peripheral ) , neuroendocrine disturbances ( e . g . , hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis dysfunction and impairment of monoaminergic neurotransmission ) , chronic inflammation , oxidative stress , disruption of the microbiota-gut-brain axis , reduced brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels , and altered synaptic plasticity . These IR-associated pathways may predispose individuals to depressive symptoms or exacerbate existing mood disorders . A comprehensive understanding of these mechanisms is critical for developing integrated therapeutic strategies that concurrently target metabolic and psychiatric dysfunction . Antidepressant medications exhibit divergent effects on glucose metabolism . Tricyclic antidepressants , particularly amitriptyline and nortriptyline , worsen metabolic profiles by exacerbating IR , promoting weight gain , and inducing hyperglycemia , thereby increasing diabetes risk with prolonged use . Consequently , tricyclic antidepressants should be avoided in metabolically vulnerable populations unless alternatives are unavailable . Mirtazapine presents a paradoxical profile-while its appetite-stimulating effects often lead to weight gain ( a known IR risk factor for IR ) , some evidence suggests potential beta-cell function preservation , necessitating cautious use of mirtazapine in individuals with metabolic syndrome . Among selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors , fluoxetine and escitalopram demonstrate favorable metabolic effects , including improved insulin sensitivity and glycemic control , though hypoglycemia risk ( particularly with concomitant sulfonylureas ) warrants monitoring . Bupropion , a norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor , uniquely promotes weight loss and enhances glycemic control , making it a first-line option for depression comorbid with obesity or T2DM . Agomelatine , with its neutral metabolic profile and circadian rhythm-modulating properties , represents a safer alternative for patients with metabolic concerns . Concurrently , certain antidiabetic agents show promise in managing depression . Metformin and sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors may be prioritized for diabetic patients at risk for depression , while glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists appear particularly beneficial for obesity-related mood disturbances . Thiazolidinediones offer value in treatment-resistant cases , whereas insulin secretagogues should be used cautiously in psychiatrically vulnerable individuals . Future research should prioritize three key directions : Mechanistic investigations using advanced neuroimaging , such as intranasal insulin , to elucidate the contribution of IR to depressive phenotypes and evaluate novel interventions , such as intranasal insulin ; Precision medicine approaches incorporating biomarkers , including genetic polymorphisms , inflammatory markers , and gut microbiome signatures , to optimize antidepressant selection and develop personalized treatment algorithms ; and Therapeutic innovation , including dual GLP-1/GIP agonists and anti-inflammatory-antidepressant combinations , alongside digital health technologies ( e . g . , continuous glucose monitoring coupled with mood tracking ) , will enable real-time , data-driven management . These advances will be instrumental in establishing integrated care paradigms for this comorbidity , which intertwines metabolic and psychiatric conditions .
BACKGROUND : Immune checkpoint inhibition ( ICI ) has revolutionized oncology , offering extended survival and long-term remission in previously incurable cancers . While highly effective in tumors with high mutational burden , lowly mutated cancers , including pediatric malignancies , present low response rate and limited predictive biomarkers . PATIENTS AND METHODS : We present a framework for the identification and validation of tumor-reactive T cells as a biomarker to quantify ICI efficacy and as candidates for a personalized TCR-T cell therapy . Therefore , we profiled a pediatric malignant rhabdoid tumor patient with complete remission after ICI therapy using deep single-cell T cell receptor ( TCR ) repertoire sequencing of the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) and the peripheral blood . RESULTS : Tracking T cell dynamics longitudinally from the tumor to cells in circulation over a time course of 12 months revealed a systemic response and durable clonal expansion of tumor-resident and ICI-induced TCR clonotypes . We functionally validated tumor reactivity of TCRs identified from the TME and the blood by co-culturing patient-derived tumor cells with TCR-engineered autologous T cells . Here , we observed unexpectedly high frequencies of tumor-reactive TCR clonotypes in the TME and confirmed T cell dynamics in the blood post-ICI to predict tumor-reactivity . CONCLUSION : These findings strongly support spatio-temporal tracking of T cell activity in response to ICI to inform therapy efficacy and to serve as a source of tumor-reactive TCRs for personalized TCR-T designs .
Oral roflumilast is a phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor approved for the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . In a recent clinical trial , oral roflumilast demonstrated clinical efficacy and safety in psoriasis , but the underlying mechanisms in skin have not previously been studied . This sub-study investigated the cellular and molecular effects of oral roflumilast treatment on psoriatic skin in vivo . In the PSORRO study , patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis were randomized 1 : 1 to monotherapy with oral roflumilast 500 mug once daily or placebo ( ClinicalTrials . gov NCT04549870 ) . Skin punch biopsies from 24 patients were obtained at baseline , week 4 and week 12 for RNA-sequencing and quantitative immunohistochemistry . At week 12 , genes encoding pro-inflammatory mediators ( e . g . CXCL1 , CXCL8 , IL1B , IL17A , IL23A and IL36A ) were significantly downregulated in patients treated with oral roflumilast compared with placebo . The gene signatures and histologic infiltration of several immune cell populations were also downregulated ; most significantly for CD4+ T cells and neutrophils . The epidermal thickness of lesional skin decreased 32% from baseline , compared with a 7% decrease in the placebo group . Our findings suggest that oral roflumilast downregulates numerous key pro-inflammatory gene and histologic biomarkers , supporting its potential as a systemic treatment for psoriasis .
The myelin sheath is a lipid-rich membrane that ensheathes axons and is required for healthy and efficient signal transduction . Myelin is damaged in neurological diseases like multiple sclerosis , but remyelination can occur through the action of oligodendrocyte precursor cells ( OPCs ) , which differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes that wrap axons to form repaired myelin . In this study , a genetic-based mouse model of demyelination was used , which features near-complete demyelination followed by robust remyelination in the brain . Lipid mass spectrometry on isolated myelin from the remyelinated brain revealed a decrease in the percent mole fraction of cholesterol when compared to healthy myelin . Biophysical studies on monomolecular lipid films formed using myelin lipid extracts from repaired myelin showed changes in the surface behavior of the lipid films , compared to the healthy myelin . Films formed using the remyelinated lipid extracts resulted in lower surface pressures and lower compressional moduli when compared to healthy controls , suggesting that repaired myelin membranes have lower lateral molecular packing within the lipid film . Synthetically prepared model membranes , based on the major lipid compositions of the healthy and diseased extracts , revealed that changes in cholesterol levels were the primary contributor to the changes in biophysical properties . Supplementation of the diseased lipid extracts with cholesterol led to a robust improvement in membrane surface pressures and compressibility . Together , these results suggest that high cholesterol levels are required for myelin membrane stability and that reduced cholesterol in repaired myelin may have a profound impact on the biophysical properties of the myelin membrane .
Chemotherapy is a primary therapeutic option in cancer treatment , but often associated with unwanted side effects and drug resistance . Claudin-3 ( CLDN3 ) and claudin-4 ( CLDN4 ) are essential components of tight junctions , frequently overexpressed in ovarian cancer , serve as potential therapeutic targets . In this study , we utilized flow cytometry , qPCR , Western blot , and animal experiments to investigate the regulation of CLDN3 and CLDN4 by chemotherapy drug , gemcitabine , in the ovarian cancer cell line A We reported that gemcitabine can induce expression of CLDN3 and CLDN4 in ovarian cancer cells . Mechanistically , we showed that gemcitabine induces expression of CLDN3 and CLDN4 through p38 MAP kinase mediated transcriptional regulation . Overexpression of CLDN3 or CLDN4 functionally protected A2780 ovarian cancer from gemcitabine induced cell killing . It appears that gemcitabine induced expression of CLDN3/4 is a chemoresistance mechanism for cancer cells . Gemcitabine-induced upregulation of CLDN3/4 suggests that ovarian cancer cells may be more effectively targeted using claudin-3/4-specific antibodies or antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) in combination with chemotherapy , which could have clinical implications for ovarian cancer treatment in the future .
Pathological tau accumulation disrupts neuronal function , leading to neurodegeneration and dementia in tauopathies , such as Alzheimer ' s disease and frontotemporal dementia . Despite the progression of several anti-tau therapies to clinical trials , no disease-modifying treatments for tauopathies exist . Tau hyperphosphorylation is a key factor in pathology progression . Among all tau phosphorylation sites targeted in preclinical passive immunization studies , the classic AT8 pathological tau phosphorylation sites have remained understudied . Thus , we investigated the potential of immunotherapy against phosphorylated tau ( pTau ) in a P301S mouse model of tauopathy . We administered a new monoclonal B6 antibody that targets tau phosphorylation sites at serine 202 , threonine 205 and serine 208 either systemically for 3 months or locally into the cerebral ventricles for 1 or 2 months via an osmotic minipump . Systemic administration failed to reach the brain effectively , and subsequently , was not able to alleviate the progressive motor impairment seen in this tauopathy mouse model . By contrast , intraventricular administration improved motor function in earlier stages of pathology but had a lesser effect in later stages . The local administration for 8 weeks reduced the number of pTau positive neurons in cortex and hippocampus . Our findings indicate that targeting the classical pathological tau phosphorylation sites can ameliorate tau pathology and improve function in a mouse tauopathy model . These results add to growing evidence supporting the efforts in developing tau-targeting immunotherapies for neurodegenerative diseases associated with pathological tau deposits .
Bruton ' s tyrosine kinase ( BTK ) mediates B cell receptor and Fc receptor signaling and is a key regulator of autoimmunity and allergy . A series of novel BTK inhibitors ( BTKi ) are currently in development for non-oncologic indications with covalent-irreversible ( remibrutinib , evobrutinib , tolebrutinib , orelabrutinib ) , covalent-reversible ( rilzabrutinib ) , and non-covalent reversible ( fenebrutinib ) binding modes . This study characterizes their in vitro potency and selectivity profiles under the same conditions to minimize assay differences across the different binding modes . Covalent BTKi showed human in vitro blood BTK binding in a time- and concentration-dependent manner with remibrutinib being the most potent and fastest in onset of action . Cellular BTK pathway inhibition was determined in human blood B cells and basophils , and for covalent BTKi correlated well with BTK binding . In contrast to the covalent-irreversible remibrutinib , the non-covalent reversible fenebrutinib showed rapid loss of cellular BTK inhibition after washout . Kinase selectivity was assessed in a binding screen across the human kinome , followed by quantification of binding affinities for a selection of kinases . BTKi ranked in their selectivity as follows ( most selective to least ) : remibrutinib , fenebrutinib , evobrutinib , orelabrutinib , rilzabrutinib and tolebrutinib . These data suggest that next generation BTKi show important differences in their in vitro target binding and selectivity when compared under the same conditions .
BACKGROUND : The reward circuits are crucial in treating human methamphetamine ( MA ) addiction , while the underlying action mechanisms may vary throughout the intervention process . This gap limits the identification of specific modulation targets and results in a " one-size-fits-all " approach . Demonstrating these specific neural signatures can inform tailored therapy and enhance precision medicine for MA addiction . METHODS : A total of 62 MA addicts ( 21 females ) and 57 healthy controls ( 16 females ) were recruited . Longitudinal data were collected at the early and later stages of MA abstinence . We used probabilistic metastable substates to investigate macro-scale functional changes and established the digital twin brain model to determine key regions in abstinence from a causal , quantitative perspective . Molecular imaging , gene set , and cell-type enrichment analyses were conducted to provide a multi-scale neurobiological explanation . Computational drug repurposing analysis was performed to identify drug candidates with the potential to treat MA addiction . RESULTS : We observed that brain regions within the reward circuits were crucial throughout the entire abstinence process . Molecular imaging , transcriptomic data , and cell-type analysis independently revealed that metabolic activities may play a more prominent role in early abstinence , while neuroplasticity is essential in both early and later abstinence . Identified putative drugs included approved medications for psychiatric symptoms , AIDS , and cancer . CONCLUSIONS : Our work provides an integrative perspective on understanding the neural underpinnings of human MA abstinence and may inform future tailored therapies . Particularly , these findings support the stage-dependent nature of in-vivo human MA abstinence .
The bone marrow microenvironment ( BMM ) consists of different cellular and acellular components . These components synergize in regulating the process of hematopoiesis . Various extracellular matrix proteins are found amongst the acellular components . Secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine ( SPARC ) is amongst the most abundant glycoproteins in bone . Sparc/osteonectin , cwcv , and Kazal-like domains proteoglycan 2 ( SPOCK2 ) is a member of the SPARC family , and its role in bone metabolism and hematopoiesis has not been investigated . Using female mice deficient for SPOCK2 , we assessed the role of SPOCK2 in influencing bone formation , the BMM and hematopoiesis . Using micro-computed tomography we found a significant decrease in trabecular bone volume , bone mineral density and thickness , but increased cortical mineral density in SPOCK2 knockout ( KO ) versus wildtype ( WT ) bones . C-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen , a measure of bone resorption , was significantly increased in bone marrow supernatants of SPOCK2 KO mice . In the hematopoietic compartment we found an increase in hematopoietic stem cells , but a decrease of mesenchymal stromal cells and adipocytes in the bone marrow of SPOCK2 KO mice compared to control mice . Megakaryocytes were increased in SPOCK2 KO mice . In summary , deficiency of SPOCK2 leads to several alterations in the BMM . The hematopoietic effects may be due to hematopoietic cell-intrinsic effects in SPOCK2-deficient cells or due to a SPOCK2-deficient niche or both .
OBJECTIVE : Lignocellulosic biomass contains both nitrogen and carbon resources , make it ideal substrate for microbial development and the production of enzymes . METHODS : The current research emphasizes producing and optimizing the laccase enzyme from lignocellulosic wastes utilizing Aspergillus oryzae under solid-state fermentation . The optimal laccase production conditions have been identified , and the obtained enzyme was assessed for cytotoxicity , therapeutic benefits on breast tumors ( MDA-MB-231 ) , and 4-chlorophenol ( 4-CP ) degradation . Initially , RSM ( Response Surface Method ) was used to enhance physio-chemical factors as moisture , temperature , pH , carbon and nitrogen sources , and copper sulfate ( CuSO ) levels . Aspergillus oryzae showed the highest laccase production ( 73 U/mL ) using corn straw with 0 % xylose and yeast extract , 5 mM CuSO , 80 % moisture content , temperature 30 degrees C , and pH Furthermore , the isolated enzyme laccase has been shown to have a strong killing activity against tumor cells ( MDA-MB-231 ) . RESULTS : Laccase showed an IC value of 17 % when treated with the cells of MDA-MB-231 at 100 muM/mL . The enzyme caused apoptosis in cancer cells also greatly increased DNA damage in tumor cell types . In addition , the laccase enzyme successfully decomposed 4-CP by 56 % within 72 h . CONCLUSION : The current research shows that using corn straw with SSF provides both waste treatment and production of enzymes in an environmentally benign and economically viable manner . Laccase has the potential for use in innovative enzymatic treatment and bioremediation applications .
Effective wound healing remains a significant challenge in regenerative medicine , particularly in minimizing inflammation and promoting scarless recovery . This study introduces a bioengineered LAC-PPy@Car MF composite , designed to leverage near-infrared ( NIR ) -induced photothermal therapy alongside biotherapeutics to accelerate tissue regeneration . The composite integrates the photothermal properties of polypyrrole ( PPy ) with the anti-inflammatory and regenerative potential of Lactera ( LAC ) and Carrageenan ( Car ) . Upon NIR activation , the composite generates localized mild-hyperthermia , reducing oxidative stress , enhancing Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor ( AhR ) activity , and upregulating heat shock proteins ( HSP ) . These effects synergistically create a bioactive environment conducive to cellular proliferation and tissue repair . Biochemical evaluations demonstrate that LAC-PPy@Car MF effectively reduces oxidative stress , stimulates fibroblast migration , and promotes the proliferation of skin cells . Immunofluorescence staining reveals significant activation of AhR and HSP in treated tissues , correlating with accelerated cellular proliferation and improved skin architecture . The NIR-triggered photothermal effect enhances the therapeutic potential of the composite , ensuring precise and minimally invasive treatment for burn injuries . These findings position phototherapeutic LAC-PPy@Car MF as a promising candidate for advanced wound healing applications . Its dual functionality , combining photothermal therapy with bioactive healing properties , offers a transformative approach to regenerative medicine , paving the way for improved clinical outcomes in wound care .
Hydrogel dressings have emerged as promising tools for wound healing applications . However , the complex chemical synthesis and high cost of components , such as cytokines and stem cells , in most existing designs challenge their practical application . In this study , we adopted a modular design approach and natural materials to overcome these limitations , dividing the hydrogels into three distinct functional modules . The base module consisted of an interpenetrating polymer network of gelatin and chitosan . The drug release module incorporated liposomes loaded with quercetin , while the auxiliary module utilized a complex of protocatechuic aldehyde and trivalent iron . The presence of Schiff base crosslinking and hydrogen bond formation between the three modules enhanced the self-healing properties and mechanical strength of the hydrogel . Notably , the modular hydrogel exhibited excellent antioxidant , antibacterial , macrophage differentiation , and collagen promotion capabilities . This multifunctional hydrogel demonstrated the potential to provide safe and effective treatment , accelerate wound repair processes , and serve as a promising dressing for diabetic wound management . By utilizing natural components and a modular design strategy , this hydrogel offers a practical and cost-effective solution for improving wound healing outcomes , particularly in drug-resistant and diabetic wounds .
This study employed a completely randomized design ( CRD ) to evaluate the effects of graded levels of yeast beta-glucan supplementation on subacute ruminal acidosis ( SARA ) induced by high-concentrate diets in yaks . Seven treatment groups were established : a low-concentrate control ( LC ; 50 % concentrate + 50 % forage ) , a high-concentrate control ( HC ; 80 % concentrate + 20 % forage ) , and HC diets supplemented with 5 % , 1 % , 2 % , 4 % , or 8 % yeast beta-glucan . Rumen pH , gas production , and volatile fatty acid ( VFA ) profiles were measured at 3 , 6 , 9 , 12 , and 24 h of in vitro fermentation . At 9 , 12 , and 24 h , concentrations of deleterious metabolites-lactic acid , endotoxin ( LPS ) , and histamine-were quantified . 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed to compare microbial community structures among the LC , HC , and HC + 1 % beta-glucan ( 1 % HCG ) groups . The effects of fermentation supernatants on inflammatory gene expression and epithelial barrier integrity were evaluated using a yak rumen epithelial cell ( YREC ) model . Results demonstrated that the LC group maintained ruminal pH > 5 at all time points , whereas the HC group exhibited pH < 5 after 9 , 12 , and 24 h . Supplementation with 1-8 % yeast beta-glucan significantly elevated pH ( P < 05 ) to values comparable with the LC group . Relative to LC , the HC group showed significant reductions in pH , microbial crude protein ( MCP ) , acetate concentration , and acetate : propionate ratio ( P < 05 ) , concomitant with significant increases in NH-N , propionate , butyrate , total VFA , and harmful metabolites ( lactic acid , LPS , and histamine ) ( P < 05 ) . Microbial community analysis revealed that HC feeding decreased the relative abundances of specific genera within the Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes phyla . Moreover , the HC diet upregulated pro-inflammatory gene expression and downregulated genes related to oxidative phosphorylation and cytoskeletal integrity in YRECs . Yeast beta-glucan supplementation ( 1-8 % ) mitigated SARA-associated perturbations in fermentation parameters-elevating pH , acetate concentration , acetate : propionate ratio , and MCP content ; reducing NH-N accumulation ; and lowering lactic acid , LPS , and histamine concentrations-while modulating key bacterial taxa and attenuating inflammatory responses and epithelial damage . In conclusion , yeast beta-glucan effectively alleviates high-concentrate diet-induced ruminal acidosis and promotes rumen health .
Cancer is a worldwide public health problem that poses a serious threat to human health . Drug therapy , as the mainstay of cancer treatment , relies on carriers for the in vivo delivery of chemotherapeutic or nucleic acid-based drugs . Traditional drug delivery carriers have shortcomings , however , including a lack of targeting , uncontrollable release of drugs , and low stability , potentially leading to toxic side effects and reducing their antitumor efficacy . Advances in nanotechnology and biomedicine have furthered the development of stimuli-responsive nanodelivery systems , which can be used to realize the accumulation and on-demand release of drugs and reduce the required drug dosage and toxicity . Hyaluronic acid ( HA ) , as a natural anionic polysaccharide with excellent biocompatibility , an easily modified structure , and the ability to target cancer cells , is a US Food and Drug Administration-approved biomaterial that is ideal for the construction of stimuli-responsive nanodelivery systems . Herein , we review HA-based stimuli-responsive nanodelivery systems including various HA-modified structures . We summarize the feasibility and effectiveness of these systems in cancer therapy according to their roles as endogenous- ( pH , redox , enzyme , and hypoxia ) or exogenous- ( light , temperature , ultrasound , and magnetism ) stimuli-responsive systems . We also discuss the problems and challenges in the development of HA-based stimuli-responsive nanodelivery systems and the perspectives for future development . This review highlights the great potential of HA-based stimuli-responsive nanodelivery systems for use in precision cancer treatment and controlled drug release .
Reactive oxygen species-based chemodynamic therapy overcomes the tissue penetration limitations inherent in traditional photodynamic therapy and sonodynamic therapy for tumor treatment , thereby garnering significant attention . However , the transient nature of reactive oxygen species and the nonspecific release of chemotherapeutic agents remain great challenges in chemodynamic therapy . In this study , a dual-network nanosystem based on ellagic acid-modified lignin grafted with vinyl pyrrolidone copolymer and loaded with paclitaxel ( EAMLVP@PTX ) is constructed . While exposed to the acidic tumor microenvironment , the nanoparticles undergo a charge reversal , inducing cationic endocytosis of tumor parenchymal cells . Furthermore , ellagic acid units endow the nanosystem with mitochondrial targeting capability in colon cancer cells . Consequently , reactive oxygen species is produced , resulting in the partial activation of the dynamic network within the nanosystem and further release of anti-cancer drugs , which in turn generates additional reactive oxygen species . This creates a self-sustaining reactive oxygen species cycle , initiating programmed cell death to enhance anti-tumor treatment under sustained oxidative stress . Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrate that the nanosystem exhibits significant antitumor efficacy against colon cancer , with minimal side effects observed . The EAMLVP@PTX effectively addresses the challenges associated with the short life of reactive oxygen species and the specificity of drug delivery , and demonstrates prominent chemo/chemodynamic synergistic therapeutic effects , thereby offering a highly promising strategy for cancer treatment .
Glycosylation is a fundamental post-translational modification that plays a pivotal role in cancer progression , influencing cell adhesion , immune evasion , metastasis , and drug resistance . Among glycosyltransferases , Core 2 beta-1 , 6-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 3 ( GCNT3 ) has emerged as a key regulator of tumor behavior , with its effects varying across different cancers . While elevated GCNT3 expression is associated with better prognosis and chemotherapy response in ovarian cancer , it correlates with poor survival , tumor invasiveness , and immune suppression in pancreatic and lung cancers . This dual nature underscores the complexity of GCNT3 ' s role in cancer biology . As a biomarker , GCNT3 has shown potential for prognostic and therapeutic applications , particularly in colorectal and ovarian cancers . Targeting GCNT3 therapeutically presents challenges due to its role in normal physiological glycosylation , and the lack of selective inhibitors . Current research suggests that GCNT3-targeted therapies , in combination with immunotherapy or chemotherapy , could improve treatment outcomes by modulating mucin production , tumor metabolism , and immune responses . This review critically explores GCNT3 ' s diverse functions , its impact on cancer progression , and its potential as a therapeutic target , highlighting the need for cancer-specific approaches and future innovations in drug development to harness its clinical potential effectively .
Our previous research established that treatment with IFN-gamma and TNF-alpha ( IT ) significantly enhanced the paracrine activity of MSCs , resulting in a more effective wound healing response when applied to the wound surface with supernatant from IT-stimulated MSCs ( S-IT MSCs ) . While S-IT MSCs hold promise for advancing wound healing therapy , challenges remain in developing an approach that enhances therapeutic efficacy and simplifies administration . This study proposed a scaffold composed of sericin , known for its skin regeneration properties , to load S-IT MSCs , designated as Se + S-IT MSCs , for the protection of bioactive factors . Additionally , whether Se + S-IT MSCs exhibit a superior effect on wound healing was investigated using a rat total skin excision model . Results indicated that Se + S-IT MSCs outperformed silk sericin loaded with MSC supernatant ( Se + S-MSCs ) in promoting migration , proliferation , and activation of HUVECs , HaCaTs , macrophages , and HDFs . Furthermore , Se + S-IT MSCs significantly promoted macrophage polarization toward the M2 phenotype , potentiated vascularization and re-epithelialization , and enhanced collagen deposition . These effects collectively accelerated wound healing in vivo in rats . This study highlights the potential of Se + S-IT MSCs to facilitate rapid and effective wound healing , with silk sericin scaffolds serving as efficient carriers to expedite the process .
In lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) , gaining a deeper understanding of the molecular interplay involved in its progression is crucial . Our study delves into the complex interactions among long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) , RNA-binding proteins , and microRNAs , focusing on the LINC00115/hnRNPA1/miR-146a-5p/EGFR axis . Through a series of assays , including xenograft models and in vitro assays , we have identified a pattern where elevated levels of LINC00115 and hnRNPA1 , coupled with a decline in miR-146a-5p expression , enhance the malignant traits of LUAD cells . The results showed that LINC00115 stabilized hnRNPA1 and repressed the tumor-inhibitory miR-146a-5p , thereby promoting cancer progression . Notably , the knockdown of LINC00115 or hnRNPA1 inhibited the expression of EGFR , which influenced LUAD cell proliferation , invasion , migration , and tumor growth . In contrast , inhibiting miR-146a-5p increased these cancerous behaviors . Our experiments using luciferase reporter assays , RNA immunoprecipitation , and RNA pulldown assays further illuminate how this molecular interaction circumvents cell death . Thus , our data highlight the importance of the LINC00115/hnRNPA1/miR-146a-5p/EGFR axis in lung cancer and provide new insights into potential therapeutic strategies . SIGNIFICANCE : Our research proposes a tripartite molecular complex comprising LINC00115 , hnRNPA1 , and miR-146a-5p , which fosters cancer progression by inhibiting autophagy and apoptosis , thus revealing a new therapeutic target within the LINC00115/hnRNPA1/miR-146a-5p/EGFR axis that could be pivotal in curtailing the advancement of lung adenocarcinoma .
A nickel ferrite@sodium alginate-grafted-poly ( 3-aminophenol ) @MXene ( NiFeO@Na-Alg-g-P3AP@MXene ) nanocomposite has been developed through three critical steps : synthesizing NiFeO nanoparticles via co-precipitation , preparing TiC MXene by selective etching of aluminum from TiAlC , and integrating MXene and nickel ferrite into the nanocomposite via in situ polymerization . The catalyst was comprehensively characterized using field emission scanning electron microscopy ( FESEM ) , X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , Brunauer-Emmett-Teller ( BET ) surface area analysis , Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy ( FTIR ) , thermogravimetric analysis ( TGA ) , energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy ( EDX ) , and vibrating sample magnetometry ( VSM ) . The NiFeO@Na-Alg-g-P3AP@MXene nanocomposite exhibited outstanding catalytic performance in synthesizing novel polyhydroquinolines ( PHQs ) . These derivatives were obtained in excellent yields ( 85-95 % ) using alkylene-bridged bis-aldehydes , 4-formylphenyl 4-methylbenzenesulfonate , and 3-aryl-pyrazole-4-carbaldehyde under optimized conditions , with remarkably short reaction times ( 40-90 min ) . The synthesized PHQ derivatives demonstrated potent antioxidant activity ( 3-3 % inhibition ) and broad-spectrum antibacterial efficacy against Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , Bacillus subtilis , and Salmonella enteritidis . Furthermore , the nanocomposite catalyst displayed exceptional stability and reusability , retaining >90 % efficiency over five consecutive catalytic cycles . Notably , the polyhydroquinolines also exhibited prominent anticancer activity against MCF-7 breast cancer cells .
Although the literature has shown the use of Vincristine ( VCR ) in conjunction with other chemotherapeutic agents for liver cancer , the efficiency of VCR combined with Melphalan ( MPN ) . The clinical bioactivity and therapeutic efficacy of anticancer drugs are significantly constrained by inadequate targeting and adverse effects . NDDSs provide a superior approach to mitigate the limitations of small molecule anticancer agents . This investigation developed carboxymethyl chitosan ( CMC ) , an effective aqueous-soluble chitosan ( CS ) derivative , by a chemical method and utilized it for the combination administration of Melphalan ( MPN ) and Vincristine ( VCR ) . Carboxymethylation at the -OH and -NH groups of CS was verified by the FTIR . The CMC ' s ability to deliver drugs in a sustained and protracted way is demonstrated by the release profiles obtained . MPN + VCR@CMC NPs show excellent anticancer activity against HepG2 liver cancer cells at 9mug/ml and can induce 50 % cell death by generating oxidative stress . MPN + VCR@CMC NPs displays E . coli S . aureus and B . subtilis bacterial strains . Further , the apoptosis was confirmed by AO-EB and flow cytometry analysis . MPN + VCR@CMC NPs show excellent hemocompatibility . Overall , the outcomes revealed that MPN + VCR@CMC NPs for prolonged drug delivery and enhanced apoptotic efficacy as a chemotherapeutic agent .
HL-60 cells are frequently employed as a standard in vitro model for neutrophil research and extensively utilized . However , the cultivation of HL-60 cells presents a recurring challenge . Historically , cell culture density has been ignored in the consistency of culture conditions . Here , we optimized the culture protocol and explored the impact of culture density on HL-60 cells . Additionally , we investigated the differentiated rate and antibacterial potential of differentiated HL-60 ( dHL-60 ) neutrophils across varying cell density cultures . The findings revealed a positive correlation between cell proliferation activity and cell density , suggesting that increased density facilitates enhanced cell proliferation . Furthermore , as the density of the cell culture increased , there was a concomitant rise in the differentiation rate of HL-60 cells into neutrophils upon stimulation . Importantly , this elevated density also led to significantly higher levels of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and bacterial phagocytosis . Further investigation revealed that small extracellular vesicles ( sEVs ) are crucial communicator in quorum sensing within HL-60 cells . Supplementation of HL60-derived sEVs ( hEVs ) in low-density cell populations resulted in a restoration of cell proliferation , in dose-dependent tendency . Conversely , the inhibition of EV-secretion in HL-60 cells restrain cell growth and proliferation . Overall , our study not only optimized the HL-60 cell culture protocol but also elucidated the critical role of culture density in enhancing HL-60 cell proliferation and antibacterial activity . This finding offers a noteworthy consideration for in vitro experiments of HL-60 cells and suggests the involvement of a quorum sensing mechanism within the neutrophil microenvironment .
BACKGROUND : Obesity is a rapidly increasing global health issue , which is associated with glucose and insulin resistance . Phosphodiesterase type 5 ( PDE5 ) inhibitors ( PDE5i ) are known for their ability to enhance blood flow and vascular stability and are widely used to treat conditions such as erectile dysfunction , pulmonary hypertension , heart failure , and cancer . However , studies investigating the role of PDE5i in alleviating obesity and metabolic diseases remains unclear . Therefore , we investigated the effects of PDE5i on obesity and metabolic disorders in diet-induced obese mice and its underlying mechanisms . METHODS : PDE5i was administered to high-fat diet ( HFD ) -fed C57BL/6J mice for 6 to 7 weeks . Body weight and food intake were measured weekly , and baseline metabolic rates , physical activity , and glucose and insulin tolerance tests were assessed during PDE5i administration . Macrophages and T-cells in the gonadal white adipose tissue ( gWAT ) were analyzed by flow cytometry . Vascular stability and blood flow in gWAT were analyzed via immunostaining and in vivo live imaging . RAW7 cells and bone marrow-derived macrophages were used to determine immunoregulatory effects of PDE5i . RESULTS : In HFD-fed mice , PDE5i administration significantly enhanced systemic insulin sensitivity and AKT phosphorylation in gWAT . PDE5i reduced the M1/M2 ratio of gWAT macrophages of obese mice . These phenomena were associated with enhanced blood flow to the gWAT . In vitro experiments revealed that PDE5i suppressed lipopolysaccharide-induced proinflammatory cytokine production and increased the mRNA expression of genes associated with M2 polarization . CONCLUSION : PDE5i plays a role in regulating adipose tissue inflammation and thus holds promise as a therapeutic agent for metabolic enhancement . FAU - Song , Dan-Gyeong
BACKGROUND : The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) increases with age , and cellular senescence of pancreatic beta-cells plays a key role in T2DM pathogenesis . As canagliflozin and acarbose have been shown to increase lifespan in mice , we investigated the effect of sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor , alpha-glucosidase inhibitor or both on the cellular senescence of beta-cells in a T2DM mouse model . METHODS : Enavogliflozin ( 3 mg/kg ) , acarbose ( 10 mg/kg ) , or vehicle was orally administered daily to db/db mice for 6 weeks . The levels of senescence markers ( p16 , p21 , and p53 ) in the pancreas and kidney were measured through real-time polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) , immunofluorescence staining , and Western blot . In an in vitro analysis , isolated pancreatic islets were exposed to H2O2 to induce cellular senescence , then treated with beta-hydroxybutyrate ( beta-HB ) , and subsequently assessed for levels of senescent markers . RESULTS : Enavogliflozin alone or combined with acarbose effectively lowered blood glucose levels in db/db mice . The combined treatment resulted in the greatest increase in beta-cell function calculated using insulinogenic index and homeostasis model assessment of beta-cell function compared to the vehicle . Additionally , the combined treatment significantly reversed the increase in p16 , with a similar trend observed in p21 and p53 in the islets . Treatment increased circulating beta-HB and in vitro analysis suggested the activation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) by beta-HB in reducing senescence in the islets . CONCLUSION : The combined administration of enavogliflozin and acarbose significantly reduced blood glucose , improved beta-cell function , and reduced senescent beta-cells in db/db mice . This combination therapy holds potential as a senotherapeutic strategy for managing T2DM . FAU - Hong , Serin
BACKGROUND : Interleukin 33 ( IL33 ) drives liver fibrosis , and individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus are more likely advanced to liver fibrosis . However , the role of IL33 in diabetic liver fibrosis remains unclear , prompting our investigation . METHODS : We developed a diabetes model in wild-type , IL33-/- , and suppression of tumorigenicity 2 ( ST2-/- , IL33 receptor ) mice . Furthermore , wild-type diabetic mice were injected with IL33 neutralizing antibody ( alphaIL33 ) . We also co-cultured human liver endothelial cells and human hepatic stellate cells to identify the role of IL33 in high palmitic acid and high glucose conditions . RESULTS : Hepatic collagen deposition was increased in diabetic mice , which was alleviated by IL33 knockout , ST2 knockout , or administration of alphaIL Also , alphaIL33 treatment blunted liver sinusoidal endothelial cell ( LSEC ) dysfunction and inflammation during diabetic liver fibrosis progression . Recombinant IL33 ( rIL33 ) treatment aggravated autophagy disruption in the presence of palm acid and high glucose in LSECs , which was blunted by autophagy agonist rapamycin administration and ERK/MAPK inhibitor PD98059 treatment . Hepatic stellate cell line LX-2 co-cultured with rIL33-pretreated LSECs displayed augmented activation , which was also attenuated by rapamycin or PD98059 pretreated . CONCLUSION : IL33 drives LSEC dysfunction and promotes diabetic hepatic fibrosis , thus a potential therapeutic target for diabetic liver fibrosis . FAU - Chen , Huimin
In recent years , the number of adults with diagnosed cartilage defects has increased significantly , and various modes of treatment have been sought . However , traditional cartilage repair strategies have been proven inefficient , with limited success . Recently , regenerative treatment options have become more routinely used for specific indications , but they still have major limitations . Cell-derived extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are becoming increasingly attractive for regenerative purposes because they provide several regenerative factors . In addition , they can be engineered to function as delivery agents for proteins , nucleic acids , and other molecules . Recently , EVs were explored for cartilage tissue engineering , with varying results . Unlike other cell-based therapies , this approach will lead to the avoidance of problems associated with immunogenic reactions against allogenic cells and easier approval of the therapy by regulatory bodies , which is expected to stimulate wider clinical application . Because of its broad interest and importance , this review was developed to discuss published works , their outcomes , and limitations and outline future research directions .
In this paper , a bionic structure made of skeletal muscle-inspired hierarchical ( MH ) unit cells is proposed . The mechanical properties and energy absorption characteristics of MH-celled structures with different geometric dimensions under various impact speeds were explored and compared with conventional circular-celled structures using finite element ( FE ) models in ABAQUS/Explicit . Quasi-static and dynamic tests were conducted to validate the FE modelling approach . Numerical crashworthiness analyses were performed , and the results demonstrate the higher energy absorption capability of MH-celled structures compared to the conventional circular-celled structure . Moreover , it was found that the deformation mode of MH-celled structures is governed by the relative density of the structure and the impact velocity , which can be categorised into quasi-static mode , transition mode and dynamic mode . Parametric studies revealed that both the specific energy absorption and plateau stress of MH-celled structures are enhanced with the increase in the relative density or the impact velocity . &#xD .
This case report discusses the management of a 15-year-old Jehovah ' s Witness ( JW ) with DiGeorge syndrome , complex congenital heart disease ( CHD ) , and severe neuromuscular scoliosis requiring major orthopedic surgery . Refusal of blood transfusions required preoperative optimization and advanced blood conservation strategies . The patient underwent multiple cardiac surgeries and spinal fusion . This case emphasizes multidisciplinary coordination and blood management strategies for surgical cases with religious restrictions . FAU - Hoyos , Maria E
Scirrhous-type gastric cancer ( SGC ) is a rare but well-recognized subset of resectable gastric cancer ( GC ) , accounting for 10% of cases . Despite its long history of clinical recognition dating back to the pre-1900s , SGC remains one of the most challenging GC subtypes to treat . Traditionally , SGC has been clinically defined as Borrmann type 4 GC , with histological classifications such as signet ring cell carcinoma or diffuse-type histology serving as alternative diagnostic criteria . Therapeutic advancements for SGC have largely focused on locally advanced or oligometastatic disease , yet no SGC-specific treatment has been established . The phase III JCOG0501 trial failed to demonstrate a survival benefit of neoadjuvant S-1 plus cisplatin for Borrmann type 4 and large type 3 GC . Recent developments in biomarker-driven therapies may redefine SGC by molecular subtypes , with CLDN2-targeted therapy emerging as a potential option for some SGC cases . However , as the landscape of medical oncology evolves , SGC may not remain a distinct therapeutic entity . The focus should shift toward understanding the intrinsic biology of SGC . Treatment development for SGC is expected to continue advancing , becoming increasingly stratified based on molecular abnormalities while maintaining a commitment to addressing unmet needs , such as early-onset GC and GC with symptomatic peritoneal dissemination .
Anatomically modern humans ( AMHs ) exhibit a significant increase in basal metabolic rate ( BMR ) and height compared to non-human apes . This study investigates the genetic basis underlying these traits . Our analyses reveal a strong genetic correlation between height and BMR . A regulatory mutation , rs34590044-A , was found to be associated with the increased height and BMR in AMHs . rs34590044-A upregulates the expression of ACSF3 by increasing its enhancer activity , leading to increased body length and BMR in mice fed essential amino acids which are characteristic of meat-based diets . In the British population , rs34590044-A has been under positive selection over the past 20 , 000 years , with a particularly strong signal in the last 5 , 000 years , as also evidenced by ancient DNA analysis . These results suggest that the emergence of rs34590044-A may have facilitated the adaptation to a meat-enriched diet in AMHs , with increased height and BMR as consequences of this dietary shift .
Identifying cell-type-specific enhancers is critical for developing genetic tools to study the mammalian brain . We organized the " Brain Initiative Cell Census Network ( BICCN ) Challenge : Predicting Functional Cell Type-Specific Enhancers from Cross-Species Multi-Omics " to evaluate machine learning and feature-based methods for nominating enhancer sequences targeting mouse cortical cell types . Methods were assessed using in vivo data from hundreds of adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) -packaged , retro-orbitally delivered enhancers . Open chromatin was the strongest predictor of functional enhancers , while sequence models improved prediction of non-functional enhancers and identified cell-type-specific transcription factor codes to inform in silico enhancer design . This challenge establishes a benchmark for enhancer prioritization and highlights computational and molecular features critical for identifying functional cortical enhancers , advancing efforts to map and manipulate gene regulation in the mammalian cortex .
The mammalian cortex is comprised of cells classified into types according to shared properties . Defining the contribution of each cell type to the processes guided by the cortex is essential for understanding its function in health and disease . We use transcriptomic and epigenomic cortical cell-type taxonomies from mouse and human to define marker genes and putative enhancers and create a large toolkit of transgenic lines and enhancer adeno-associated viruses ( AAVs ) for selective targeting of cortical cell populations . We report creation and evaluation of fifteen transgenic driver lines , two reporter lines , and >1 , 000 different enhancer AAV vectors covering most subclasses of cortical cells . The tools reported here have been made publicly available , and along with the scaled process of tool creation , evaluation , and modification , they will enable diverse experimental strategies toward understanding mammalian cortex and brain function .
Identifying additional immune checkpoints hindering antitumor T cell responses is key to the development of next-generation cancer immunotherapies . Here , we report the induction of serotonin transporter ( SERT ) , a regulator of serotonin levels and physiological functions in the brain and peripheral tissues , in tumor-infiltrating CD8 T cells . Inhibition of SERT using selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors ( SSRIs ) , the most widely prescribed antidepressants , significantly suppressed tumor growth and enhanced T cell antitumor immunity in various mouse syngeneic and human xenograft tumor models . Importantly , SSRI treatment exhibited significant therapeutic synergy with programmed cell death protein 1 ( PD-1 ) blockade , and clinical data correlation studies negatively associated intratumoral SERT expression with patient survival in a range of cancers . Mechanistically , SERT functions as a negative-feedback regulator inhibiting CD8 T cell reactivities by depleting intratumoral T cell-autocrine serotonin . These findings highlight the significance of the intratumoral serotonin axis and identify SERT as an immune checkpoint , positioning SSRIs as promising candidates for cancer immunotherapy .
Diffuse midline glioma ( DMG ) is a fatal childhood brain tumor characterized primarily by mutant histone H3 ( H3K27M ) . H3K27M causes a global reduction in Polycomb repressive complex 2 ( PRC2 ) -mediated H3K27 trimethylation ( H3K27me3 ) . Paradoxically , PRC2 is essential in DMG cells , although the downstream molecular mechanisms are poorly understood . Here , we have discovered a specific form of canonical PRC1 ( cPRC1 ) containing CBX4 and PCGF4 that drives oncogenic gene repression downstream of H3K27me3 in DMG cells . Via a novel functional region , CBX4 preferentially associates with PCGF4-containing cPRC The characteristic H3K27me3 landscape in DMG rewires the distribution of cPRC1 complexes , with CBX4/PCGF4-cPRC1 accumulating at H3K27me3-enriched CpG islands . Despite comprising <5% of cPRC1 in DMG cells , the unique repressive functions of CBX4/PCGF4-cPRC1 are essential for DMG growth . Our findings link the altered distribution of H3K27me3 to imbalanced cPRC1 function , which drives oncogenic gene repression in DMG , highlighting potential therapeutic opportunities for this incurable childhood brain cancer .
A newly developed capsid AAV-MG2 was reported to mediate specific microglial transduction . However , we find that AAV-MG2 actually enables specific genetic access to excitatory neurons in forebrain regions including hippocampal formation and visual cortex but does not confer expression in microglia or astrocytes in vivo . Furthermore , we find that AAV-MG2 specifically labels the deep layer of the CA1 pyramidal layer in a titer-dependent manner . We show that AAV-MG2-Cre can be used to genetically target excitatory neurons for cell-type-specific neural circuit mapping studies . We also find that AAV-MG2 conserves specificity for excitatory neurons in rat hippocampus . Thus , the AAV-MG2 presents a useful viral-genetic tool for targeting excitatory neurons in the forebrain across different species .
Shade avoidance responses are defined as the plastic responses of plants to neighboring shading signals through changes in the light spectrum , which limit planting density in modern agricultural practices . Here , we found that shade avoidance responses depend on soil microbes and identified a microbe-root-shoot circuit that bolsters aboveground shade tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana . Rhizosphere microbes systemically regulate the expression of aboveground shade-responsive genes , which are associated with the altered homeostasis of jasmonic-acid- and salicylic-acid-related metabolites . We further found that the plasma-membrane-localized pattern recognition receptors FLS2/BAK1 and transcription factors MYC2/phytochrome-interacting factors ( PIFs ) /LONG HYPOCOTYL5 ( HY5 ) are required for rhizosphere-microbe-alleviated shade avoidance . Our study characterized a signaling cascade ( FLS2/BAK1-MYC2-PIF4/HY5 ) and provided a strategy for mitigating aboveground shade responses using rhizosphere microorganisms .
Glioblastoma ( GBM ) is the most aggressive primary intracranial tumor , with glioblastoma stem cells ( GSCs ) enforcing the intratumoral hierarchy . The inflammatory microenvironment influences tumor development at varying stages , while the underlying mechanism of GSCs facing pro-inflammatory stress remains unclear . Here , we show that , in human GBM , pro-inflammatory stress from pro-inflammatory macrophages ( pTAMs ) maintains GSC proliferation and self-renewal . Tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced protein 6 ( TNFAIP6 ) , as a responder in patient-derived GSCs to pro-inflammatory stress tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF-alpha ) from human pTAMs , promotes tumor growth through binding epidermal growth factor ( EGF ) and prolonging EGF receptor ( EGFR ) -phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) -protein kinase B ( AKT ) signaling activation . Meanwhile , pro-inflammatory stress-induced patient-derived GSCs secrete TNFAIP6 to transform macrophage phenotype from pTAMs to inflammatory-suppressive macrophages ( sTAMs ) . Collectively , pharmacological or genetic disruption of TNFAIP6 autocrine and paracrine communication between patient-derived GSCs and TAMs inhibited GSC proliferation and self-renewal in vitro and in patient-derived xenograft tumor-bearing mice , suggesting that TNFAIP6 is an effective target for GBM therapy .
Experimental access to cell types within the mammalian spinal cord is severely limited by the availability of genetic tools . To enable access to spinal motor neurons ( SMNs ) and SMN subtypes , we generated single-cell multiome datasets from mouse and macaque spinal cords and discovered putative enhancers for each neuronal population . We cloned these enhancers into adeno-associated viral vectors driving a reporter fluorophore and functionally screened them in the mouse . We extensively characterized the most promising candidate enhancers in rat and macaque and developed an optimized pan-SMN enhancer virus . Additionally , we generated derivative viruses expressing iCre297T recombinase or ChR2-EYFP for labeling and functional studies , and we created a single vector with combined enhancer elements to achieve simultaneous labeling of layer 5 extratelencephalic projecting neurons and SMNs . This unprecedented SMN toolkit will enable future investigations of cell type function across species and potential therapeutic interventions for human neurodegenerative diseases .
Hepatocytes can reprogram into biliary epithelial cells ( BECs ) during liver injury , but the underlying epigenetic mechanisms remain poorly understood . Here , we define the chromatin dynamics of this process using single-cell ATAC-seq and identify YAP/TEAD activation as a key driver of chromatin remodeling . An in vivo CRISPR screen highlights the histone acetyltransferase HBO1 as a critical barrier to reprogramming . HBO1 is recruited by YAP to target loci , where it promotes histone H3 lysine 14 acetylation ( H3K14ac ) and engages the chromatin reader zinc-finger MYND-type containing 8 ( ZMYND8 ) to suppress YAP/TEAD-driven transcription . Loss of HBO1 accelerates chromatin remodeling , enhances YAP binding , and enables a more complete hepatocyte-to-BEC transition . Our findings position HBO1 as an epigenetic brake that restrains YAP-mediated reprogramming , suggesting that targeting HBO1 may enhance hepatocyte plasticity for liver regeneration .
Aggression in male mice depends on developmental estrogen exposure , yet the neural mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain poorly understood . Although estrogen receptor alpha ( Esr1 ) has served as a genetic marker to identify aggression-regulating neurons in the ventrolateral division of ventromedial hypothalamus ( VMHvl ) , its functional role in organizing male-aggression circuits remains poorly understood . Here , we developed a genetic strategy to knock out Esr1 in VMHvl neurons while simultaneous tracing and manipulating Esr1-deleted cells . Developmental Esr1 knockout selectively altered synaptic inputs from aggression-regulating regions onto VMHvl neurons , with a stronger effect observed in males , revealing the posterior intralaminar thalamic nucleus ( PIL ) as a critical upstream region involved in male aggression . Additionally , VMHvl Esr1+ neurons in knockout males showed reduced excitability and failed to initiate attacks upon chemogenetic activation . These findings underscore the essential role of Esr1 in establishing male-specific aggression circuits , providing new insights into male-specific neural circuit development and function .
Prestin ( SLC26A5 ) promotes mechanical feedback via outer hair cells ( OHC ) within the organ of Corti , governed by voltage-dependent kinetics of its charge movements ; namely , nonlinear-capacitance ( NLC ) . We study NLC frequency response in mouse OHC membrane patches . The characteristic frequency cut-off ( F ( is ) ) is 27 kHz . Single point mutations within prestin ' s chloride binding pocket ( S396E and S398E ) lack usual anion influence . In agreement , we show absence of anion binding in these mutants through molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations . NLC F ( is ) in S396E knock-in mice is unaltered , indicating that high frequency activity is not governed by chloride but likely by viscoelastic loads . Also , the allosteric action of chloride does not underlie piezoelectric-like behavior in prestin , since tension sensitivity of S396E NLC is comparable to WT . Because structures of all studied species appear indistinguishable , with analogous chloride binding pockets , prestin performance likely evolved by modifying , not its protein-anion interaction , but instead mechanical loads on the protein .
Dysfunction of the glymphatic system , a brain-wide waste clearance network , is strongly linked to Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) and the accumulation of beta-amyloid ( Abeta ) and tau proteins . Here , we identify an astrocytic signaling pathway that can be targeted to preserve glymphatic function and mitigate neurotoxic protein buildup . Analysis of astrocytes from both human AD brains and two transgenic mouse models ( 5XFAD and PS19 ) reveals robust activation of the protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) kinase ( PERK ) -alpha subunit of eukaryotic initiation factor 2 ( eIF2alpha ) branch of the unfolded protein response . Chronic PERK activation suppresses astrocytic protein synthesis and , through casein kinase 2 ( CK2 ) -dependent mechanisms , disrupts the perivascular localization of aquaporin-4 ( AQP4 ) , a water channel essential for glymphatic flow . Importantly , astrocyte-specific PERK deletion or pharmacological inhibition restores AQP4 localization , enhances glymphatic clearance , reduces Abeta and tau pathology , and improves cognitive performance in mice . These findings highlight the critical role of the astrocytic PERK-CK2-AQP4 axis in glymphatic dysfunction and AD pathogenesis , positioning this pathway as a promising therapeutic target .
Brain endothelial cells ( BECs ) in brain vasculature are critical structural and functional components of the blood brain barrier ( BBB ) . Adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) capsids have previously been genetically engineered to confer specificity to endothelial cells , but these capsids show limited endothelial cell specificity that varies by delivery conditions . We developed a set of new BEC-enhancer AAV vectors that specifically target BECs based on the cis-regulatory elements identified from single-cell epigenetic datasets . Ex vivo and in vivo characterization of BEC-enhancer AAVs in wild-type , Ai9 reporter , and Alzheimer ' s disease model mouse brains show their utility for high transduction selectivity of the BECs with little off-target transduction in the liver . Our BEC-enhancer AAVs target the brain vasculature by systemic administration and can be minimally invasive in terms of the route of administration . They are useful new tools for delivering genetic payloads specifically to BECs for normal and diseased brain studies .
Nonhuman primate ( NHP ) neuroanatomy and cognitive complexity make NHPs ideal models to study human neurobiology and disease . However , NHP circuit-function investigations are limited by the availability of molecular reagents that are effective in NHPs . This calls for reagent development approaches that prioritize NHPs . Therefore , we derived enhancers from the NHP genome . We defined cell-type-specific open chromatin regions ( OCRs ) in single-cell data from rhesus macaques . We trained machine-learning models to rank those OCRs according to their potential as cell-type-specific enhancers for cells in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex ( DLPFC ) . We packaged the top-ranked layer-3-pyramidal-neuron enhancer into AAV and injected it into the macaque DLPFC . Expression was mostly restricted to layers 2 and 3 and confirmed with light-driven activation of channelrhodopsin . These results provide a crucial tool for studying the causal functions of DLPFC and provide a roadmap for optimized gene delivery in primates .
In recent years , we and others have identified a number of enhancers that , when incorporated into rAAV vectors , can restrict the transgene expression to particular neuronal populations . Yet , viral tools to access and manipulate specific neuronal subtypes are still limited . Here , we performed systematic analysis of single-cell genomic data to identify enhancer candidates for each of the telencephalic interneuron subtypes . We established a set of enhancer-AAV tools that are highly specific for distinct cortical interneuron populations and striatal cholinergic interneurons . These enhancers , when used in the context of different effectors , can target ( fluorescent proteins ) , observe activity ( GCaMP ) , and manipulate ( opto-genetics ) specific neuronal subtypes . We also validated our enhancer-AAV tools across species . Thus , we provide the field with a powerful set of tools to study neural circuits and functions and to develop precise and targeted therapy .
We present an enhancer-AAV toolbox for accessing and perturbing striatal cell types and circuits . Best-in-class vectors were curated for accessing major striatal neuron populations including medium spiny neurons ( MSNs ) , direct- and indirect-pathway MSNs , Sst-Chodl , Pvalb-Pthlh , and cholinergic interneurons . Specificity was evaluated by multiple modes of molecular validation , by three different routes of virus delivery , and with diverse transgene cargos . Importantly , we provide detailed information necessary to achieve reliable cell-type-specific labeling under different experimental contexts . We demonstrate direct pathway circuit-selective optogenetic perturbation of behavior and multiplex labeling of striatal interneuron types for targeted analysis of cellular features . Lastly , we show conserved in vivo activity for exemplary MSN enhancers in rats and macaques . This collection of striatal enhancer AAVs offers greater versatility compared to available transgenic lines and can readily be applied for cell type and circuit studies in diverse mammalian species beyond the mouse model .
This issue of Neuron , with accompanying papers in Cell , Cell Genomics , Cell Reports , and Cell Reports Methods , contains studies describing methods for access to neuronal and non-neuronal cell types within the central nervous system . Combining technologies including genetics , virology , genomic enhancers , and RNA sensing , these tools enable targeting the nervous system in an unprecedented manner .
Recently in Cell , Xie and Rose et al . revealed a role for the mechanosensory ion channel PIEZO1 in the enteric nervous system , showing that it influences colonic motility and peristalsis , and highlighted its importance in the complex immuno-mechanical control of gastrointestinal function .
Zolboot et al . developed tools to manipulate and map microRNA function in cerebellar Purkinje cells with temporal precision , revealing key roles in dendritic development and circuit connectivity . Their approach provides insight into microRNA-mediated regulation of neurodevelopment in sparse neuronal populations .
Targeted delivery of cytostatic drugs is a powerful approach to achieving tumor tissue selectivity , reducing systemic toxicity , and ultimately improving the efficacy of anticancer chemotherapy . Targeting can be achieved using a wide range of molecular ligands , with DNA aptamers being a promising representative . In this work , we employed flow cytometry , a AuNP-aptasensor , and atomic-scale computer modeling to assess the affinity of several DNA aptamers ( Anti-HER2 , HB5 , Apt-6 , HeA2_1 , and HeA2_3 ) for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) , which is known to be one of the factors that promote the growth of breast cancer cells . Flow cytometry showed that short aptamers ( HeA2_1 and HeA2_3 ) had a higher affinity for HER2 on MDAMB453 cancer cells than longer aptamers ( HB5 , Apt-6 ) . HER2-negative MDA-MB-231 cells served as the negative control . The HeA2_3 aptamer has a high average affinity ( HeA2_3 : 6 , HeA2_1 : 1 , Apt-6 : 6 ; HB5 : 5 ; Anti-HER2 : 2 ) and a nearly Gaussian distribution across the cells , while HeA2_1 forms a fraction of cells with a relatively high fluorescence signal intensity ( HeA2_1 : 6 ; HeA2_3 : 9 ; Apt-6 : 4 ; HB5 : 1 ; Anti-HER2 : 1 ) . Most of the findings for cancer cells also hold for the HER2-positive small extracellular vesicles studied using the AuNP-aptasensor . Computer simulations confirmed that short aptamers are characterized by stronger binding to the extracellular domain of HER A detailed analysis of the free energy allowed us to show for the first time that tight binding to HER2 correlates with well-separated hot and cold spots on the protein surface . For the aptamers that meet these criteria ( HeA2_1 , HeA2_3 , and Anti-HER2 ) , favorable interactions with HER2 are driven by the local attraction of nucleotides to arginine and lysine residues of HER2 and possibly stabilized by intermolecular hydrogen bonds . For longer aptamers ( Apt-6 and HB5 ) , hot and cold spots on the HER2 surface overlap and the aptamers show much weaker binding . Overall , our findings show that binding of DNA aptamers to HER2 cannot be characterized merely by the dissociation equilibrium constant . A more sophisticated approach that combines experimental and computational methods allowed us to unlock the molecular mechanisms behind the aptamer-HER2 bindings . The results of our study also suggest that computer modeling has become a reliable and accurate tool for aptamer prescreening prior to laboratory experiments . FAU - Katsuba , Konstantin E
BACKGROUND : Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic , SARS-CoV-2 neutralising monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) are being developed for clinical use . With the appearance of new virus variants , most mAbs lost their virus-neutralising activity , highlighting the complexity of mAb development under conditions of continuous SARS-CoV-2 evolution . METHODS : Hamsters were treated with SARS-CoV-2 neutralising mAbs and then challenged with SARS-CoV- Recombinant VSV expressing the spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 was utilised in an in vitro system to select for antibody escape variants . Surface plasmon resonance measurements were performed to characterise the binding affinity and epitope of various mAbs . Fc-mediated effector functions of neutralising and non-neutralising mAb combinations were determined via multiple in vitro assays . FINDINGS : Few of the mAb treated and infected hamsters experienced breakthrough infections , which derived from mutated virus that emerged in vivo . We developed an in vitro antibody escape assay that recapitulated the in vivo situation and we found that somatic hypermutations ( SHM ) affected the profile of viral escape hotspots that mAbs selected for . Pairwise combination of mAbs binding non-overlapping epitopes suppressed the emergence of viral mutants . The formulation with a third , non-neutralising mAb enhanced the Fc-mediated effector functions of the mAb treatment in an additive manner . INTERPRETATION : We conclude that treatment with single mAbs rapidly leads to the formation of novel virus variants . An important function of SHM is to suppress the emergence of viral antibody escape variants . Our data suggest that the anticipatory B cell memory can be harnessed to design combinations of SARS-CoV-2 neutralising mAbs that have a reduced risk to induce viral escape . FUNDING : This study was supported by public funding from the German Research Foundation ( DFG ) , the Federal Ministry of Education and Research ( BMBF ) , the COVID-19-Research Network of the State of Lower Saxony ( COFONI ) , the German Centre for Infection Research ( DZIF ) , and the Helmholtz Association of German Research Centres .
Nonessential metals ( e . g . , cadmium ( II ) , etc ) and essential heavy metals ( e . g . , copper ( II ) , etc ) are both toxic for plants at high concentrations . The plant cell wall , which consists of pectin , cellulose , hemicellulose , lignin and proteins , acts as the first barrier for heavy metal ions to enter the cytoplasm . The binding of heavy metal ions within cell wall components is largely determined by the negative charges of functional groups . The cell wall interacts with heavy metal ions through three main mechanisms : ion exchange , chelation models and cell wall remodeling . Various signaling molecules such as nitric oxide and salicylic acid have been implicated in the regulation of cell wall components . An increasing number of reports indicate that microRNAs can target genes related with cell wall synthesis and modification , thereby mediating heavy metal fixation within the cell wall . In this review , we summarize recent advances in understanding the biosynthesis , modifications , and functions of cell wall components under heavy metal stress . We also discuss the interaction mechanisms and the signaling pathways involved in the cell wall-mediated fixation of heavy metals , offering valuable insights into plant heavy metal stress tolerance mechanisms and providing strategic avenues for mitigating heavy metal pollution .
The production of pepper is increasingly challenged by cadmium ( Cd ) contamination . Abscisic acid ( ABA ) is supposed to alleviate Cd-induced toxicity and reduce the accumulation of Cd . However , the underlying physiological mechanisms by which ABA regulates Cd tolerance remain unclear . Therefore , this study investigates the mitigation of Cd toxicity in pepper exposed to Cd stress through the application of exogenous ABA under hydroponic conditions . The analysis focused on the subcellular distribution of Cd in the root , its localization in cell wall polysaccharide components , and the associated physiological indices . The results showed that ABA treatment significantly reduced Cd accumulation in pepper roots and shoots , which suggests that ABA effectively decreases Cd translocation from roots to aboveground tissues . This was accompanied by enhanced antioxidant activity , as evidenced by increased peroxidase and catalase activities . Furthermore , ABA regulated the subcellular distribution of Cd in root tissues , decreased Cd content in the cell wall and thereby mitigating Cd toxicity at the cellular level . The addition of ABA also reduced the content of hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde , indicating a reduction in lipid peroxidation and cell membrane damage . These findings highlight that ABA can enhance plant tolerance to Cd stress by modifying Cd distribution within the plant , boosting the antioxidant defense mechanism , and altering cell wall composition to limit Cd absorption . This study suggests that exogenous ABA could be a potential strategy for improving Cd resistance in pepper and reducing Cd contamination in crops .
Inhalation of nitrogen dioxide ( NO ) , a representative irritant gas , can trigger acute lung injury ( ALI ) , typically characterized by increased permeability and dysfunction of the blood-air barrier . However , the exact mechanisms underlying NO inhalation-induced ALI ( NO-ALI ) remain poorly understood . Using single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , we identified significant alterations in endothelial and epithelial cells during NO-ALI . Notably , leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 ( Lrg1 ) and uncoupling protein 2 ( Ucp2 ) , which have been implicated in ALI progression , were significantly upregulated in endothelial cells following NO exposure ( P < 05 compared to control ) . General capillaries ( GCs ) potentially function as stem cells , facilitating endothelial cell repair and recruiting neutrophils to amplify inflammatory responses . Furthermore , a novel subpopulation of epithelial cells , identified as lymphocyte antigen 6 A ( + ) ( Ly6a ) alveolar cells , showed a significant increase in abundance ( P < 05 compared to control ) and played a pivotal role in alveolar epithelial cell differentiation after NO inhalation . Overall , these findings shed insights into the pathogenic roles of endothelial and epithelial cells in NO-ALI .
Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is a prevalent neurodegenerative condition influenced by environmental elements , notably Paraquat ( PQ ) , which is one of the known risk factors . Impaired autophagy is a critical factor in the pathogenesis of PD , yet the cellular heterogeneity related to autophagy in PD has not been thoroughly investigated . Here , we established a PQ-induced PD-like neurodegeneration model and found that PQ impairs autophagy during experimental PD progression . Using single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , we elucidated the autophagy-related transcriptomic landscapes in this model , identifying microglia as the central cell type associated with PQ-induced autophagy across all brain cell types . Additionally , microglial subtypes in the PQ-exposed model exhibited significant heterogeneity in gene expression characteristics , biological functions , and roles in autophagic regulation . PQ exposure induced potential genetic transformations between microglial subtypes , which may further disrupt their immune response and energy metabolism regulation functions . Subsequently , we validated the identity transformation of microglia revealed by scRNA-seq in both in vivo and in vitro PQ exposure models . Moreover , we identified a specific microglial subtype primarily responsible for the autophagy-related changes observed in the PQ-exposed model . The expression of the autophagic subtype marker gene Inpp5d may contribute to the regulation of PQ-induced autophagic impairment in BV2 cells . This study generates the first scRNA-seq atlas of autophagy in the context of PQ exposure , highlighting the heterogeneity of microglial subtypes and identifying an autophagy-specific microglial subtype as a central mechanism in the pathology of PQ-induced PD-like neurodegeneration .
BACKGROUND : Tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( TKIs ) are commonly used in cancer treatment , but their off-target effects can lead to serious cardiotoxicity . Our previous studies have revealed that upregulation of phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( PI3K ) confers considerable protection against calcium ( Ca ( 2+ ) ) disorders and cardiac dysfunction induced by sunitinib . However , the involvement of PI3K inhibition in the prevention of cardiomyocyte contraction induced by other TKIs remains unclear . METHODS : Herein , we selected three TKIs with different targets and mechanisms , namely , sunitinib , imatinib , and trametinib , and assessed their myocardial toxicity , PI3K activity , and Ca ( 2+ ) regulation in AC16 cells and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes ( hiPSC-CMs ) . RESULTS : All three TKIs induced AC16 cell damage and reduced PI3K expression . These drugs also caused hiPSC-CM injury , increased reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) release , induced cytoplasmic Ca ( 2+ ) overload , and inhibited cell contraction . Phosphatidylinositol ( 3 , 4 , 5 ) -trisphosphate pretreatment and adenovirus-mediated p110alpha overexpression activated PI3K , prevented TKI-induced Ca ( 2+ ) overload and ROS release , and reduced TKI-induced myocardial injury and contraction inhibition . CONCLUSIONS : All three TKIs induced cardiotoxicity by inhibiting PI3K activity .
This study demonstrates the high bactericidal efficiency of silver ( Ag ) and copper ( Cu ) nanoparticles synthesized via the laser-induced forward transfer ( LIFT ) method . The antimicrobial effectiveness of these nanoparticles was confirmed against both Gram positive ( S . aureus , L . monocytogenes ) and Gram negative ( P . aeruginosa , E . coli ) bacterial biofilms in vitro ( silica glass and CaF substrates ) , ex vivo ( pig skin ) , and in vivo ( mouse wounds ) . The LIFT method achieved minimal inhibitory and bactericidal concentrations ( MIC and MBC ) within the lower range of bibliographic data , attributed to the uniform 2D-like surface coverage and chemically clean nature of the nanoparticles . Furthermore , biocompatibility studies revealed low cytotoxicity of LIFT-generated Ag and Cu nanoparticles in human embryonic kidney ( HEK293 ) cells . In vivo experiments on Balb/c mice demonstrated accelerated wound epithelialization without adverse inflammatory or allergic responses for NP-treated wounds compared to the untreated ( control ) . Exposure to AgNPs and CuNPs did not affect the functional/behavioral status of mice . Future research will extend these findings by testing additional animal models and exploring multi-elemental nanoparticles to further elucidate the bactericidal mechanisms . This method can be implemented on the basis of portable laser systems for antibacterial treatment in the field .
The employment of photoluminescent carbon nanodots ( PL-CNDs ) in biomedical applications is a new trend of research , specifically in delivering and tracking the drug of interest at the target site . On the other hand , the determination of in vitro and in vivo biocompatibility of the highly utilized nanomaterial is of utmost priority . In the present work , we described the synthesis , optical and surface morphological characterization , and determination of toxicity of PL-CNDs derived from egg white on the in vitro Human Corneal Epithelial ( HCE ) cells , and in vivo Drosophila melanogaster ( D . melanogaster ) model . The in-house developed PL-CNDs were blue photoluminescent under excitation at 365 nm and showed an emission peak at 420 nm . Further , HR-TEM analysis suggests the spherical shape of PL-CNDs with a lattice space of 26 nm , having a size of 2 nm determined from particle size analysis . The Tauc plot analysis calculated from absorption spectra suggests a band gap of approximately 8 eV and approximately 9 eV . The biocompatibility assay ( 20-250 mug/mL ) , cell apoptosis ( 20 , 60 , 100 mug/mL ) , and cell morphological ( 20 , 60 , 100 mug/mL ) studies on HCE cells highlight the cytocompatibility of the PL-CNDs at various concentrations . The toxicity of PL-CNDs was evaluated using an in vivo genetic animal model , D . melanogaster . The oral treatment of 20-250 mug/mL concentrations of PL-CNDs did not induce any significant mortality and climbing defect in flies . In addition , dietary supplementation with PL-CNDs elicits a dose-dependent enhancement of antioxidant defense mechanisms confirmed by SOD and CAT , and the elevation of total antioxidant capacity . The measurement of Reactive Oxygen Species ( ROS ) in the brain and the gastrointestinal ( GI ) tract region suggests the non-toxic properties of PL-CNDs ( 50-100 mug/mL ) . In summary , PL-CNDs are non-toxic and have good bioavailability , they can be used for delivering drugs in conjugations due to their nano size .
The present study focused on repurposing antifungal drugs for cancer treatment . Repurposing refers to the evaluation of an existing drug that has been used to treat a specific disease and to identify its potential to be used for other therapeutic purposes due to similarities in targets . Posaconazole is a second-generation lipophilic antifungal agent that exhibits broad-spectrum activity against various fungal infections associated with several fungal species . Posaconazole was chosen as the target drug for proteins screened through Swiss Pred to inhibit triple-negative breast cancer . The selected targets were allowed to develop a PPI network using a string database to identify bottleneck proteins . These target proteins were used for molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations . In-silico analysis was further validated by cell viability assay in which posaconazole exhibited notable decrease in cell viability with an IC value of 2 muM in MDA-MB-231 triple negative breast cancer cell lines ( TNBC ) . Furthermore , the migration potential of MDA-MB-231 cells following posaconazole treatment was investigated using a wound healing assay . Additionally , Posaconazole caused a notable decrease in sphere and colony formation ability . The mechanism of cell death was further analyzed using intracellular reactive oxygen species generation , mitochondrial depolarization , and cell cycle analysis . The results demonstrated that all tested variables including cell viability , migration colony formation , cell cycle analysis , ROS generation , mitochondrial depolarization and apoptosis showed statistically significant changes ( p < 01 ) against the untreated control groups . The potent anticancer potential of posaconazole has opened new avenues for repurposing antifungal drugs to treat cancer .
The clinical management of cervical cancer remains constrained by limited therapeutic options and a paucity of targeted pharmacological interventions . Drug repurposing emerges as a promising strategy to expedite oncological therapeutics development . This study systematically investigates the antineoplastic potential of HIV protease inhibitors saquinavir ( SQV ) and tipranavir ( TPV ) through multimodal mechanistic validation . In vitro analyses demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of cervical cancer cell proliferation accompanied by significant upregulation of senescence-associated beta-galactosidase ( SA-beta-Gal ) activity . Molecular characterization revealed concomitant activation of senescence-regulatory proteins p53 , p21 , and p16 , suggesting induction of tumor-suppressive senescence pathways . Transcriptomic profiling of inhibitor-treated SiHa cells identified critical cell cycle regulators CDK1 and CDK6 , findings corroborated by molecular docking simulations revealing high-affinity binding to cyclin-dependent kinases ( -0607 to -6820 kJ/mol ) . In vivo validation using xenograft models demonstrated comparable tumor growth inhibition to doxorubicin with preserved host viability and negligible systemic toxicity . Mechanistic integration revealed dual pathway modulation : G1-phase cell cycle arrest mediated through CDK1/6 suppression and coordinated activation of the p53/p21/p16 senescence signaling axis . These findings establish SQV and TPV as multi-targeted senotherapeutic agents , providing preclinical rationale for repurposing HIV antivirals as novel therapeutic strategy against cervical malignancies .
Senkyunolide A ( SenA ) , a phthalide compound isolated from celery seed essential oil , is known for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties in various disease models . However , its impact on hepatic lipid metabolism and associated molecular mechanisms remain unclear . This study investigated the protective effects of SenA against lipotoxicity-induced hepatic steatosis and explored its underlying pathways . Lipid accumulation was assessed via Oil Red O staining , whereas protein expression was analyzed via Western blotting . Apoptosis was evaluated through TUNEL staining , caspase-3 activity , and cell viability assays . Oxidative stress was measured via DCFDA-based ROS detection and assays for MDA and HO . The role of SIRT6 was examined through siRNA-mediated knockdown . SenA treatment significantly reduced lipid deposition , apoptosis , oxidative stress , and fetuin-A expression in palmitate-treated hepatocytes . It also increased the expression of SIRT6 and Nrf2 , two key regulators of metabolic and redox homeostasis . Silencing SIRT6 diminished these protective effects , indicating its essential role in mediating SenA activity . These findings suggest that SenA mitigates hepatic steatosis by modulating oxidative stress and metabolic dysfunction via SIRT6/Nrf2 signaling . As a natural bioactive compound , SenA offers promise for the development of safer therapeutic strategies for managing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , which has broader relevance to metabolic health .
Linear alkylbenzene sulfonates ( LAS ) are the most prevalent anionic surfactants utilized in detergents and cleaning products . This study took sodium dodecyl benzene sulfonate ( SDBS ) as target LAS , and preliminarily explored the effects of LAS on the microbiological characteristics of constructed wetland-microbial fuel cell ( CW-MFC ) systems . Results showed that , SDBS had no impact on the physical processes such as adsorption and sedimentation in CW-MFC but significantly affected the subsequent biodegradation process . SDBS stimulated the biosynthesis of extracellular polymeric substances within CW-MFC , with proteins showing a greater resistance to LAS toxicity than polysaccharides . SDBS enhanced the enzymatic activity of microorganisms in CW-MFC due to its amphiphilic nature and solubilization capabilities . However , beyond a critical concentration , SDBS can become toxic , leading to a decrease or even complete loss of microbial enzymatic activity . SDBS also increased microbial community diversity and the proliferation of SDBS-degrading bacteria on lava and MFC anodes , but this promoting effect diminished as SDBS concentrations rose . SDBS promoted the growth of electrochemically active bacteria ( EAB ) on MFC anodes more at low concentrations than at high ones . Certain genera , such as Pseudomonas , Desulfovibrio , and Geobacter , exhibited higher tolerance to SDBS compared to other EAB . The CW-MFC system harbored seven bacterial genera capable of degrading SDBS , including Geobacter , which could degrade alkyl chains through beta/omega-oxidations , Aeromonas , Acinetobacter , Desulfovibrio and Hydrogenophaga , which could perform desulfonation , Zoogloea and Dechloromonas , which could perform benzene ring cleavage . Geobacter and Desulfovibrio played dual roles as both EAB and SDBS-degraders in CW-MFC .
Adiponectin ( ApN ) is an antidiabetic and anti-inflammatory protein synthesized by adipose tissue . It is essential in regulating insulin sensitivity , glucose , and lipid metabolism by controlling AMPK , PPARalpha , and MAPK signals . It is an anti-inflammatory property that protects pancreatic beta-cells . Often , low levels of ApN are linked to obesity , type II diabetes and the development of PDAC . However , changes in lifestyle and the use of certain drugs can improve ApN function and insulin sensitivity . PDAC is a highly aggressive cancer linked to obesity , type II diabetes , and insulin resistance . ApN plays a complex role in PDAC progression and can suppress PDAC development by weakening beta-catenin signaling . Decreases in ApN levels are associated with increased PDAC risk in diabetic patients . PDAC and diabetes are interconnected through the development of insulin resistance , islet dysfunction , change in immunological response , inflammation , oxidative stress , and altered hormone secretion . Genetic studies highlight specific genes like HNF4G and PDX1 that influence both conditions and miRNAs such as miR-19a promote tumor progression through the PI3K/AKT pathway . This review discusses the role of ApN in diabetes and PDAC and the interrelation between diabetes and PDAC .
Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are membrane-bound nanoparticles ( 50-1000 nm ) secreted by all cell types and play critical roles in various biological processes . Among these , exosomes , a smaller subset of EVs , have attracted considerable interest due to their potential applications in diagnostics and therapeutics . However , conventional EV isolation methods are often limited by inefficiencies in processing time , recovery , and scalability . Hydrophobic interaction chromatography utilizing capillary-channeled polymer ( CCP ) fiber stationary phases offers a promising alternative , enabling rapid ( <15 min ) , cost-effective ( approximately $5 per column ) EV isolation with high loading capacities ( approximately 10-10 particles ) and minimal sample pre-processing . Despite these advantages , achieving high-throughput EV isolation for larger-scale applications using the CCP fiber platform is the present challenge . To this end , further optimization of stationary phase packing and adsorption conditions is necessary to maximize the available binding surface area in the current microbore column format . This study systematically investigates the influence of interstitial fraction ( i . e . packing density ) in polyester ( PET ) CCP fiber columns on the dynamic binding capacity ( DBC ) of EVs isolated from human urine using a high-performance liquid chromatography platform . Microbore columns ( 76 mm i . d . x 300 mm ) packed with PET CCP fibers in both an eight-channel ( PET-8 ) and a novel trilobal ( PET-Y ) configuration were evaluated using breakthrough curves and frontal analysis . The results reveal that lower packing densities correlate with higher mass- and surface area-based EV binding capacities , with a maximum DBCs of 86 x 10 EVs g ( -1 ) fiber and 22 x 10 EVs m ( - ) fiber achieved in <2 min of sample loading . Under optimum conditions , surface utilization of >50 % is realized . These results establish a framework for optimizing CCP fiber-based platforms to enhance EV capture efficiency , facilitating the development of scalable EV isolation techniques for biomedical research and therapeutic applications .
High performance capillary electrophoresis ( HPCE ) has been widely applied in the analysis of amino acids ( AAs ) , but no studies on the HPCE analysis of dissociated states of AAs have been reported . Here , twenty proteingenic AAs were analyzed by the newly-developed universal interface-induced current detector ( IICRD ) . Two or three current signal peaks were observed in current electrophoretograms ( CR-EGs ) , while only one peak with low sensitivity can be obtained by DAD . The current signal peaks of AAs were accurately identified by adding charge-neutral marker , comparing current signal peaks at different pH conditions , also calculating by pK ( a ) . The qualitative analysis indicated that the three current signal peaks of basic AAs were monovalent cations ( [AA ( + ) ] ) , charge-neutral forms ( [AA ( +/- ) ] ) , and monovalent anions ( [AA ( - ) ] ) in order . Similarly , acidic AAs can be detected in three forms as [AA ( +/- ) ] , [AA ( - ) ] and [AA ( 2- ) ] , while neutral AAs can be detected as [AA ( +/- ) ] and [AA ( - ) ] . Quantitative analysis showed that HPCE-IICRD can enhance the sensitivity of AAs to 40 mumol/L in LOD , with a linear range from 10 ( -6 ) mol/L to 10 ( -2 ) mol/L . Furthermore , interactions between different dissociated states of twenty AAs and l-type amino acid transporter ( LAT1 ) were studied by combined application of NICCE method for the first time . The binding kinetic parameters and mole number of LAT1 on cell membranes can also be obtained . Besides , competitive binding experiments proved that JPH203 ( LAT1-specific inhibitor ) and leucine shared the same binding site . HPCE-IICRD provides a new method to reveal the interaction between different dissociated forms of AAs or other biomolecules and essential receptors .
CRISPR Cas nucleases are revolutionizing gene therapy by providing a precise and efficient tool for editing the human genome , and are increasingly applied for engineering microorganisms for bioremediation , drought-resistant crops , and livestock with higher productivity . While Cas9 is currently the most widely utilized member of the CRISPR family , Cas12a stands is gaining prominence for its ability to produce staggered cuts in the target DNA while requiring a shorter guide RNA ( crRNA ) . Current methods of Cas purification such as affinity tag , immunoaffinity , and ion exchange chromatography do not provide either the productivity or the purity needed to meet the demand of clinics and biotechnology industries . Responding to this need , this study presents the first affinity ligands for Cas12a purification via affinity chromatography . The ligands were initially designed in silico as peptide mimetics of anti-CRISPR protein inhibitors AcrVA1 and AcrVA4 , and ranked experimentally by Cas12a dynamic binding . Selected ligands P5 and P9 were utilized for purifying Cas12a derived from Acidaminococcus sp . ( AsCas12a ) and Lachnospiraceae sp . ( LbCas12a ) from clarified Escherichia coli cell lysates . P5-functionalized resin afforded high yield ( up to 80 % ) , purity ( > 93 % ) , and DNA editing activity ( approximately 72 % ) of Cas12a from E . coli lysates featuring different Cas12a and host cell protein titers . The characterization of ligand P5 by surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) indicated adsorption kinetics ( k ( a ) approximately 10 M ( -1 ) s ( -1 ) ) and dissociation constant ( K ( D ) approximately 10 ( -6 ) M ) that confirmed the ligand design criteria and are characteristic of peptide affinity ligands .
Toll-like receptor 3 ( TLR3 ) has been shown to influence various liver diseases . By screening a natural product molecular library , we discovered that Ellipticine exhibits moderate TLR3 inhibitory effects , with an IC value of 66 +/- 03 muM . Subsequent optimization of Ellipticine led to the development of the most potent compound , SMU-14a , which achieved an IC of 18 +/- 02 muM among all 31 derivatives . SMU-14a effectively inhibits IL-6 secretion in mouse peritoneal macrophages triggered by polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid ( Poly I : C , a TLR3 agonist ) and also downregulates TNF-alpha in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells . Mechanistically , SMU-14a reduces the phosphorylation of p65 , ERK , and TBK1 through the NF-kappaB , MAPK , and IRF3 signaling pathways , thereby inhibiting the production of inflammatory cytokines . In vivo , SMU-14a was found to effectively decrease the release of the inflammatory factor IL-6 and reduce serum levels of alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , demonstrating a potent anti-inflammatory effect and protecting the liver from internal damage . In summary , we have developed a potent Ellipticine derivative , SMU-14a , which demonstrates significant anti-inflammatory effects by blocking the NF-kappaB , MAPK , and IRF3 signaling pathways , thereby providing substantial hepatoprotective effects against acute hepatitis .
Cyclin-dependent kinase 9 ( CDK9 ) plays a pivotal role in regulating transcriptional elongation and has emerged as a promising target in cancer therapy . However , it is reported that CDK9 inhibitors cause abnormal upregulation of H3K27me3 in Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma ( DLBCL ) cell lines . Here , we designed a series of dual inhibitors targeting CDK9 and EZH2 by linking two distinct pharmacophores to achieve synergistic antitumor effects . Among these , the potent CDK9/EZH2 inhibitor D16 exhibited impressive inhibitory activities , with IC values of 9 nM for CDK9 and 6 nM for EZH Notably , compound D16 induced more significant DNA damage and exhibited greater inhibition of DLBCL proliferation than the single-target inhibitor SNS-032 or C In addition , D16 showed potent anti-proliferative activities in various solid tumor cell lines , which may provide an innovative strategy for the treatment of cancer .
Complex biological tissues are composed of many cells in a highly coordinated manner and play a variety of biological functions . In recent years , many methods for spatial clustering have been developed . However , it remains a major challenge to effectively utilize these high-dimensional and noisy spatial transcriptomics data , with similar gene expression and histological features , to more accurately identify spatial domains . Here , a novel method of spatial domain identification , named stDGAC , was proposed by jointly using a denoising autoencoder and a graph attention contrastive network for subsequent analysis of spatial transcriptomics data . The pre-trained denoising autoencoder performed dimensionality reduction and denoising , and then the low-dimensional latent representation was learned through a graph attention contrastive network to aggregate the neighborhood information of the spatial context and acquire a more robust representation . Finally , the proposed method stDGAC was experimentally demonstrated to outperform other existing methods in downstream analysis , such as identifying spatial domains , trajectory inference , and gene expression data denoising .
Alkali and drought stresses are two common abiotic factors affecting plants growth and development . Auxin signal also regulates plant responses to abiotic stresses . Especially , auxin early response genes can quickly respond after sensing auxin signal . However , auxin early response genes related to alkali and drought stresses are rarely reported in Leymus chinensis . In this study , LcSAUR1 ( small auxin-up RNA ) was isolated from the difference expression analysis of the transcriptome data in Leymus chinensis under alkali and drought stresses . And LcSAUR1 exhibited inhibitory expression under alkali and drought stresses . Further research showed that LcSAUR1 was localized in the nucleus , cell membrane , and chloroplast , suggesting that it might has special biofunction . Overexpression of LcSAUR1 led to shorter root lengths in LcSAUR1-transgenic Arabidopsis and rice . Under alkali and drought stresses , the OE-LcSAUR1-Col lines showed delayed germination and larger stomatal aperture , and the OE-LcSAUR1-NIP lines had lower survival rates . The determination of physiological indicators including hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , catalase ( CAT ) , peroxidase ( POD ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , the contents of proline ( PRO ) , and the staining of nitro-blue tetrazolium ( NBT ) and Diaminobenzidine ( DAB ) indicated that the overexpressed LcSAUR1-transgenic Arabidopsis and rice produced more reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . In addition , for the genes related to abiotic stresses , the expression of AtSnRK6 , AtNCEB3 , AtCAT2 , and AtAPX1 in the OE-LcSAUR1-Col lines , and OsLEA3-2 , OsABF1 , OsCAT2 , and OsAPX2 in the OE-LcSAUR1-NIP lines were all lower than their WT under alkali and drought stresses , suggesting that LcSAUR1 regulates alkali and drought tolerances might through those abiotic-related genes . The study suggests that the LcSAUR1 negatively regulates alkali and drought stresses , providing a novel insight into auxin signal and abiotic stresses .
Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma ( OSCC ) is the most common type of oral cancer , accounting for 90%-95% of all cancers in the mouth . It is typically noted in individuals over the age of 40 , especially men between 60 and However , there has been a recent increase in oral cancer cases among women and younger individuals . We present a case of a 49-year-old female diagnosed with Stage III , moderately differentiated Squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue in August The patient underwent radiation therapy ( 35 fractions/70 Gy ) and received adjunct chemotherapy ( 6 cycles of Inj . Cisplatin - LD on October 21 , 2005 ) . Despite these treatments , residual induration on the tongue persisted , leading to a Knife biopsy in April 2007 that confirmed the presence of squamous carcinoma infiltrating the lingual muscles . Further , she underwent Wide Excision Glossectomy with Left Supra-Omohyoid Neck Dissection in May 2007 and Total Glossectomy with Hemi mandibulectomy with Left Supra-Omohyoid Neck Dissection in August In addition to conventional cancer treatments , the patient opted for Ayurvedic treatment at our center , which included a combination of oral Herbo-mineral metallic medicines and detoxifying Panchakarma procedures . The 12-year progression-free survival achieved in this case highlights the potential benefits of combining conventional cancer treatment with personalized adjunct Ayurvedic therapy .
Melanoma is the most aggressive type of skin cancer with high mortality rates . Early diagnosis is crucial because it significantly improves treatment outcomes , but conventional methods relying on dermoscopy and lesion biopsy have limitations in accuracy during early stages and are invasive . Liquid biopsies offer a minimally invasive alternative , particularly for routine screening . The abundance of cancer cell-driven extracellular vesicles in interstitial fluid can be utilized for point-of-care cancer diagnostics . Here , we developed a stellate silicon microneedle patch , the ExoPatch , coated with Annexin V functionalized hydrogel to isolate melanoma-specific exosomes . The ExoPatch captures exosomes directly from the skin , followed by dissolution of the hydrogel to release the exosomes , which are then detected using a lateral flow immunoassay specific to melanoma markers ( MCAM and MCSP ) . After validating with cell line derived extracellular vesicles and testing with mouse tissue , the ExoPatch isolated 5 times more protein from melanoma tissue compared to healthy tissue . Additionally , the ExoPatch effectively distinguished between melanoma and healthy tissues , with its specificity confirmed through Western Blot and electron microscopy analysis . The ExoPatch with melanoma mouse samples produced a 5-fold higher signal in the lateral flow immunoassay compared to that of healthy controls . The ExoPatch presents a promising point-of-care diagnostic tool for melanoma , offering significant advantages in terms of rapidness , minimal invasiveness , and ease of use . It has the potential to enhance early detection and routine monitoring in melanoma patients , ultimately improving patient outcomes by reducing the reliance on traditional , invasive biopsies .
Human serum albumin ( HSA ) is an important protein in plasma with various biological functions in the human body . Due to its unique features in the binding and transfer of ligands and pharmaceutical molecules , HSA is extensively used in therapeutics and pharmaceutical approaches . Commercial albumin is produced by a multi-step process of plasma fractionation . However , this traditional method has some limitations such as risk of contamination , low quality , and quantity of the purified final protein . In this study , we developed two affinity chromatography platforms for the purification of human serum albumin . The recombinant albumin-binding domain ( ABD ) was expressed and purified using molecular biology techniques . Two types of commercial beads-Cyanogen bromide-activated Sepharose 4B and amine-functionalized magnetic particles-were then functionalized with the recombinant ABD . Protein purification using chromatography columns demonstrated that HSA can be purified to 95 % purity in a single step . Circular dichroism ( CD ) spectroscopy revealed structural similarities in HSA purified through affinity chromatography and fractionation using the Cohen method . Furthermore , the study of aspirin binding to HSA demonstrated that proteins purified via affinity chromatography and those fractionated by the Cohen method exhibited identical drug-binding affinities . The results of this study may have important implications for the clinical purification of human serum albumin .
Retinoic acid ( RA ) regulates cell proliferation , differentiation , and apoptosis and exists in three primary isomers : all-trans-RA ( ATRA ) , 9-cis-RA ( 9cRA ) , and 13-cis-RA ( 13cRA ) . RA derivatives , such as bexarotene ( BT ) and arotinoid acid ( TTNPB ) , are used to treat cutaneous T-cell lymphoma and induce cellular pluripotency . Due to their distinct biological activities , accurate identification and analysis of these isomers are crucial . This study developed a rapid and efficient method for analyzing RA isomers and their derivatives using ion mobility mass spectrometry ( IM-MS ) and theoretical calculations . RA isomers and derivatives exhibit overlapping mobilities and cannot be separated by direct IM-MS . By forming ternary complexes with beta-cyclodextrin ( beta-CD ) and metal ions , baseline separation was achieved with a peak resolution ( R ( p-p ) ) of up to Tandem MS and theoretical calculations revealed distinct differences in interactions , spatial structures , and binding energies , enabling mobility-based separation . Photostability tests showed rapid photoisomerization of 13cRA into 9cRA and ATRA within seconds . Analysis of 13cRA soft capsules from four brands demonstrated good stability , with measured content aligning closely with labeled values . This method offers a new approach for accurate RA isomer analysis , with potential applications in pharmaceuticals and food industries .
Alkaline lysis serves as an effective technique for plasmid extraction . However , its widespread adoption is significantly impeded by inconsistencies in key technical parameters across different documents . To address these issues , we conducted a rheological behavior analysis to understand the pattern of cell lysis and performed a series of plasmid extraction experiments to determine the optimal technical parameters . The result showed that gentle mixing ( inverting tube five times , I5 ) ) , extended lysis time ( 10 min ) , and elevated lysis temperature ( 25 degrees C ) , each produced the best plasmid preparations , based on plasmid yield , quality , and performance in downstream molecular biology assays . We also discovered that bacterial density influenced cell lysis process . Extending the alkaline lysis duration neither induced resistance to restriction endonuclease ( RE ) digestion of plasmids nor significantly compromised the integrity of plasmids and host genome ; instead , it enhanced the plasmid release . High-frequency and small-amplitude mixing tended to generate more genomic fragments , whereas low-frequency and large-amplitude mixing was likely to result in a higher occurrence of open circular ( OC ) plasmids . Bacterial lysis at low temperatures ( 4 degrees C ) could lead to genomic contamination and reduce lysis efficiency . Overall , these findings underscored the importance of technical details and provided guidance for future plasmid extractions .
Single cell protein ( SCP , or microbial protein ) is a promising alternative food source that could sustainably address the growing demand for proteins . Recently , methane , as the main component of biogas , has been explored as a carbon and energy source for SCP production due to its lower cost and renewability compared to traditional substrates such as carbohydrates . However , a major challenge is how to safely deliver methane and oxygen , and the explosion risk impedes the CH-based SCP production . This study designed a dual-membrane biofilm reactor ( dMBfR ) for SCP production from methane , incorporating hollow fiber membranes to enhance the delivery of methane and oxygen . Over a 240-day operation , methane utilization efficiency reached 100 % , achieving the SCP yield of up to 49 g SCP/g CH . The reactor also exhibited competitive protein content of 2 % and biomass productivity of 506 mg/L/d . Additionally , we evaluated the reactor performance in response to varying aeration modes ( open-end versus dead-end ) and weekly protein harvest ratios ( 20 % versus 50 % ) . Compared to the dead-end aeration mode , the open-end mode led to 5-fold higher SCP production rates , 5-fold higher nitrogen-based SCP yields , 7-fold higher carbon-based SCP yields , and 1-fold higher protein content . Moreover , we applied the freeze-drying approach to produce dry SCP products in the reactor . The final SCP products exhibited higher solubility ( 4 % ) , water holding capacity ( 0 % ) , and emulsifying stability ( 3 % , after 24 h incubation ) compared to typical fish meals , jointly indicative of the high quality of the produced SCP . This work offers valuable insights into CH-based SCP production , offering a promising avenue for efficient microbial protein synthesis .
The particulate matter ( PM ) generated during poultry farming is characterized by its complex composition and substantial emission levels . However , researches on the respiratory damage caused by poultry house PM and the underlying mechanisms remain limited . In this study , inhalable PM collected from duck houses was administered to experimental mice through inhalation exposure . After 10 days of short-term exposure and 30 days of long-term exposure , mice samples were collected for lung histopathological analysis and inflammatory cytokines detection . The results showed that inhalation of duck house PM induced pulmonary and systemic inflammatory responses in both groups of mice , with significant upregulation of IL-6 and CXCL Compared to short-term exposure , long-term exposure resulted in more severe microscopic lesions in the lungs . In addition , the concentrations of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and glutathione ( GSH ) increased in mice , indicating that duck house PM could trigger oxidative stress in lungs , we also found duck house PM induced ferroptosis in mice . Furthermore , it was confirmed that duck house PM caused cell damage and increased intracellular iron levels in MLE-12 cells , and PM reduced GSH in a dose-dependent manner . Notably , ferroptosis inhibitor treatment effectively alleviated PM-induced cell damage . These findings indicated that duck house PM can induce ferroptosis in both mice and cells , and ferroptosis plays a critical role in duck house PM-induced lung damage . These results laid a solid foundation for further exploring the mechanism of PM-induced lung injury , and providing a new insight for targeting ferroptosis to treat such damage .
Intracellular organelles are essential for cellular architecture and function , and their size regulation is critical for maintaining cellular homeostasis . Organelle size often scales with cell size , governed by mechanisms that integrate resource allocation , stochastic dynamics , and feedback controls . Here we review these underlying biophysical principles of organelle size control , including the limiting pool hypothesis , stochastic assembly processes , and feedback-driven growth dynamics . We discuss how negative feedback motifs stabilize size , while positive feedback can amplify growth and maintain size under specific conditions . Additionally , we discuss recent advances in modeling size control for organelles with nucleation and fission-fusion dynamics . By integrating experimental observations with theoretical insights , this review provides a conceptual understanding of the design principles governing organelle size regulation in dynamic cellular environments .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE : Digital Holographic Microscopy provides a new kind of quantitative image data about live cells ' in vitro activities . Apart from non-invasive and staining-free imaging , it offers topological weighting of cell mass . This led us to develop a particular tool for assessing cell mass dynamics . METHODS : Programming language Python and a training set of time-lapse images of adherent HT-1080 cells derived from human fibrosarcoma taken with dry objective 40x/95 at 30-second intervals were used to create the Analytical Image Differencing ( AID ) method . RESULTS : The AID makes the best of these new data by evaluating the difference between the chosen two quantitative phase images from the time-lapse series . The contribution of the method is demonstrated on hiQPI ( Holographic Incoherent-light-source Quantitative Phase Imaging ) image data taken with a Q-phase microscope . The analysis outputs are graphical and complemented with numerical data . To underscore the significance of the Analytical Image Differencing ( AID ) method , an initial pilot experiment was conducted to show the available analyses of sequential overlapping images capturing the movement of cancer cells . Notably , besides defining changes in areas used by the cell ( newly or steadily occupied or better abandoned ) it is an introduction to the zero-line concept , which denotes spots of tranquility among continuously moving surroundings . CONCLUSIONS : The measurement of zero-line length has emerged as a novel biomarker for characterizing cell mass transfer . The sensitivity of phase change measurements is demonstrated . The noise quality of input images obtained with incoherent ( hiQPI ) and coherent ( QPI ) methods is compared . The resulting effect on the AID method output is also shown . The findings of this study introduce a novel approach to evaluating cellular behavior in vitro . The concept emerged as a particularly noteworthy outcome . Collectively , these results highlight the substantial potential of AID in advancing the field of cancer cells biology , particularly .
The fabrication of a secure and efficacious nanosystem for intracellular protein delivery is greatly desired , which relies on coordination of the interactions among loading ability , systemic stability , precise tumor targeting , successful endo-lysosomal evasion , and on-demand release characteristics . Herein , we constructed tumor-targeting and redox-responsive photo-crosslinkable nanogels ( TRNGs ) via UV light-induced ring-opening polymerization ( ROP ) of lipoic acid moieties incorporated in the side chain of methoxy poly ( ethylene glycol ) and diethylenetriamine-modified hyaluronic acid ( HA-g-mPEG/Deta-c-LA ) to create disulfide cross-linked core for the in vivo delivery of cytochrome c ( CC ) . The TRNGs had satisfactory stability for 48 h in physiological environments and high CC encapsulation efficiency via multi-physical interactions . In vivo and in vitro fluorescence imaging proved the preferential accumulation of CC-loaded TRNGs in tumor tissues of human lung tumor-bearing mice and these nanoparticles were efficiently taken up into the CD44-positive A549 cells through CD44-mediated endocytosis compared to CD44-negative HepG2 cells . In addition , the nanoparticles underwent swift exocytosis from the endo-lysosomal compartment , thus promoting the liberation of CC within a reducing intracellular environment . The in vitro therapeutic outcomes proved that empty TRNGs presented excellent biocompatibility and minimal cytotoxicity , whereas CC-loaded TRNGs demonstrated a superior capacity to kill A549 cells compared to free CC and exhibited low effect on CD44-negative HepG2 cells . Moreover , CC-loaded TRNGs also had enhanced antitumor activity without eliciting any adverse effects . Our study highlighted the potential of TRNGs as a novel nanoplatform for the treatment of protein-based cancers .
Macrophages play a vital role in endometrial receptivity and embryo implantation . However , it remains unclear if macrophages in peripheral blood is associated with pregnancy outcomes of frozen embryo transfer during implantation window . 50 patients preparing for the first time of frozen embryo transfer ( FET ) and 17 patients with recurrent implantation failure ( RIF ) from December 2022 to March 2023 were included in our present study . The percentages of peripheral macrophages and other immune cells ( B-cell , T-cell , NK cell ) were evaluated by flow cytometry . The concentrations of cytokines were verified with an IMMULITE 1000 Immunoassay System . FET patients were categorized into pregnant and nonpregnant groups according to clinical outcomes , respectively . The proportion of peripheral CD68 ( + ) CD163 ( + ) M2 macrophages was increased in pregnant women than in nonpregnant women among the first time of FET patients . CD4 ( + ) T helper cells were positively correlated with M2-like macrophages in these women . The pregnancy rate of women with higher peripheral CD163 + M2-like monocytes increased compared with women with lower peripheral CD163 + M2-like monocytes in an independent cohort according to the cutoff value of CD163 + M2-like monocytes in ROC curve . Our findings revealed that peripheral CD163 ( + ) M2 macrophages in implantation window were associated with pregnancy outcomes . This indicated that the importance of peripheral M2 macrophages at the implantation site for pregnancy success .
Despite the increasing awareness of the health risks associated with radiation exposure such as radiotherapy and accidents , effective treatments remain limited except for bone marrow damage . Radiation-induced skin damage is a critical concern as it is often accompanied by severe inflammation and delayed wound healing . Endothelial cells have emerged as a promising therapeutic target for addressing such radiation-induced damage . Neutrophils , as key mediators of the early inflammatory response , play a pivotal role in this process . The formation of neutrophil extracellular trap ( NET ) is particularly noteworthy , as it may directly contribute to exacerbating vascular damage . However , studies specifically exploring the role of NETs in radiation-induced skin injury and their impact on endothelial barrier function are limited . Therefore , this study aimed to evaluate the use of AZD9668 , an orally administered NE inhibitor , as a therapeutic agent to mitigate NET-induced endothelial and skin damage . Irradiated skin showed increased neutrophil infiltration , NET formation , and vascular permeability in the mouse model . Neutrophil elastase ( NE ) inhibitor , AZD9668 , decreased NET formation and NET-derived NE activity . And AZD9668 treatment restored endothelial dysfunction and regulated antioxidative factors in NET-treated irradiated HUVECs . In mouse model of radiation-induced skin injury , oral administration of AZD9668 improved endothelial tight junction expression , vascular leakage , and inflammatory reaction . Therefore , skin wound healing accelerated in the AZD9668-treated group . This study highlights the critical role of NET in radiation-induced skin damage and endothelial barrier disruption , addressing a previously underexplored area . AZD9668 effectively mitigated radiation-induced damage by preventing NET formation , preserving tight junction integrity , and reducing inflammation . These findings underscore the therapeutic potential of NET and NET-derived NE in the management of radiation-induced vascular and skin injuries .
BACKGROUND : Gasdermin D ( GSDMD ) -mediated pyroptosis drives inflammatory cytokine release in response to environmental triggers . Disulfiram ( DSF ) , an FDA-approved anti-alcoholism drug , has been demonstrated to inhibit GSDMD pore formation . Although airway epithelial barrier dysfunction contributes to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) progression , the role of GSDMD-dependent pyroptosis in ozone-induced pathogenesis , and the potential of DSF to inhibit this process , remain unexplored . METHODS : We analyzed the expression levels of pyroptosis-related molecules in airway epithelial cells from COPD patients ' samples obtained from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database and evaluated the potential therapeutic effects of DSF in a mouse model of COPD induced by chronic ozone exposure . RESULTS : GSDMD was significantly upregulated in the airway epithelial cells of COPD patients . Chronic ozone exposure in mice elevated the cleaved form of GSDMD and reduced the expression of epithelial junctional proteins . DSF treatment effectively inhibited GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis and attenuated epithelial barrier disruption , leading to significant improvements in airway inflammation and lung function in both large and small airways . Furthermore , Gsdmd expression was negatively correlated with the tight junction protein Occludin and pulmonary function indices , including the ratio of FEV to FVC and MMEF . CONCLUSION : Collectively , these findings revealed the role of GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis in epithelial barrier disruption of COPD and the potential application of DSF in the treatment of COPD .
Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing proteins 1 and 2 ( NOD 1/2 ) are important cytoplasmic pattern recognition receptors that initiate host immune responses . Dysregulation of NOD signaling is highly associated with inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) and necessitate efficient treatment options . As a key mediator of NOD signals , receptor-interacting protein kinase 2 ( RIPK2 ) was considered as a promising therapeutic target for IBD therapy . However , no approved RIPK2 inhibitors are currently available for clinical use . we screened our in-house compound library using a phenotype-based cell assay and found the compound HYML-122 , which a known FLT3 inhibitor currently under clinical investigation , can effectively block the function of RIPK2 kinase and NOD-mediated NF-kappaB/MAPK activation in mouse cells . Furthermore , HYML-122 significantly inhibited the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines induced by muramyl dipeptide ( MDP ) in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( hPBMCs ) and MDP-induced peritonitis in mice . In addition , HYML-122 is highly enriched in the intestinal tract , and significantly improve Dinitrobenzene sulfonic acid ( DNBS ) -induced colitis in rats and dextran sulfate sodium ( DSS ) -induced colitis in mice . In conclusion , this study presented HYML-122 is a promising RIPK2 inhibitor with potential for further drug development for the treatment of IBD .
Neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , Huntington ' s disease ( HD ) , Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis ( ALS ) , Multiple Sclerosis ( MS ) and Frontotemporal Dementia ( FTD ) share key pathological features , including neuroinflammation , oxidative stress , mitochondrial dysfunction , autophagic dysfunction , and DNA damage . By identifying cytosolic DNA and triggering the type I interferon response , the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase ( cGAS ) -stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) pathway regulates neuroinflammation . Dysregulated cGAS-STING signaling has been linked to neuroinflammation and neuronal degeneration across multiple neurodegenerative conditions . In many neurodegenerative disorders , neuroinflammation is mediated by the cGAS-STING pathway . Mitochondrial malfunction and impaired autophagy cause cytosolic DNA buildup in Huntington ' s , Parkinson ' s , and Alzheimer ' s diseases , which activates cGAS-STING and drives chronic inflammation . This pathway is triggered by TDP-43 pathology and nucleic acid dysregulation in ALS and FTD , which leads to neuronal destruction . Both central demyelination and peripheral immunological responses are linked to cGAS-STING activation in multiple sclerosis . Various inhibitors , such as RU . 521 , H-151 , and naturally occurring compounds like metformin , potentially attenuate cGAS-STING-mediated neuroinflammation and associated pathologies . H-151 significantly decreased the expression of pro-inflammatory markers in murine macrophage J774 cells activated with cGAMP : TNF-alpha by 68 % , IFN-beta by 84 % , and CXCL10 by 96 % . cGAS-STING inhibitors target neuroinflammation , offering a disease-modifying approach unlike current symptomatic treatments . However , challenges like blood-brain barrier penetration , off-target effects , and immune suppression hinder clinical translation , necessitating optimized drug delivery and immune modulation . With a focus on its potential for future clinical applications , this review explores the role of the cGAS-STING pathway in neurodegeneration and new treatment approaches .
Acute lung injury ( ALI ) is a devastating inflammatory lung disease with high morbidity and mortality . Characterized by diffuse alveolar damage , macrophages infiltration , and pulmonary edema , ALI currently lacks effective therapeutic strategies . Rebastinib is a small molecule inhibitor of the Tie2 receptor and an antineoplastic drug . This study investigated the effects of Rebastinib on lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced ALI and GSDMD-mediated pyroptosis and NLRP3 inflammasome activation in vitro and in vivo . Our results revealed that Rebastinib significantly attenuated GSDMD-dependent pyroptosis in macrophages , leading to reduced production of caspase-1 , LDH and IL-1beta . Mechanistically , Rebastinib promoted NLRP3 ubiquitination , thereby disrupting the connection between ASC and NLRP3 and effectively suppressing NLRP3 inflammasome assembly . Additionally , Rebastinib exhibited effective protection function on alveolar epithelial cells in a co-culture system . Furthermore , Rebastinib administration alleviated lung inflammatory damage in LPS-induced ALI mouse model . These findings suggest that Rebastinib holds promise as a therapeutic candidate for ALI by inhibiting the activation of pyroptosis and NLRP3 inflammasome on macrophages .
The constitutive overexpression of Mer tyrosine kinase ( MerTK ) , strongly associated with tumorigenesis and progression across multiple malignancies , establishes it as a promising therapeutic target for oncology discovery . In this study , we systematically designed and synthesized a series of 2-substituted aniline pyrimidine derivatives as potent MerTK inhibitors . The lead compound 15f demonstrated excellent inhibitory activity against Mer kinase with an IC value of 5 +/- 7 nM , coupled with broad-spectrum antiproliferative activities against A2780 , MDA-MB-231 , and HCT116 cancer cell lines . Notably , 15f exhibited minimal hERG liability , addressing critical safety concerns . Mechanistic studies revealed dose-dependent inhibition of cancer cell migration and induction of apoptosis , while pharmacokinetic evaluation demonstrated favorable drug-like properties including high AUC , prolonged half-life , and good oral bioavailability ( F : 4 % ) . The bioavailability of 15f was significantly higher than that of compound UNC2250 ( F : 23 % ) . These integrated findings position 15f as a structurally novel and multi-faceted MerTK inhibitor for therapeutic application in cancer patients .
Ampullary carcinoma ( AC ) is a rare cancer in the world , it is characterized by less attention , fewer models , no in-depth studies , and almost no drug research related to the treatment . Camptothecin ( CPT ) , as the plant anticancer drug , has been the focus of research for a long time . It is a promising strategy to modify and optimize the CPT skeleton to obtain anticancer chemical entities showing low-toxicity and high-efficiency effects . In this study , the site 7 of CPT was modified to obtain a series of CPT derivatives , and their anti-AC activity was evaluated . Among them , compound XSJ110 inhibited the proliferation of DPC-X3 cells ( IC = 133 +/- 008 muM ) , which was significantly better than CPT ( IC = 147 +/- 159 muM ) . XSJ110 effectively inhibited the proliferation of DPC-X3 cells by inhibition of topoisomerase I ( Topo I ) activity . XSJ110 arrested cell cycle at G0/G1 phase , induced cell apoptosis , inhibited the proliferation of AC organoids and induced DNA damage . In vivo acute toxicity studies demonstrated that XSJ110 exhibited low toxicity , with no lethality or significant weight loss observed even at high doses . Collectively , these findings indicated that XSJ110 possesses superior activity coupled with favorable safety profiles , which is worthy of further clinical evaluation .
Cordycepin , also known as 3 ' -deoxyadenosine , is a bioactive natural antibiotic with numerous pharmacological properties including anticancer activity . Unfortunately , cordycepin is rapidly deaminated by adenosine deaminase ( ADA ) in vivo , which leads to the inactivation of this potent natural compound . In the present study , an ADA-resistant cordycepin prodrug with the 6-NH masked by a glutamate-based protecting group was developed . Additionally , this cordycepin prodrug exhibited stability in serum-containing media . The prodrug is non-toxic in its standalone form , and the release of cordycepin occurs in the presence of Pseudomonas carboxypeptidase G2 ( CPG2 ) , rendering it appropriate for directed enzyme prodrug therapy . The concurrent application of CPG2 and prodrug significantly reduced the proliferation of 4T1 and U251 cancer cells , promoted apoptosis , and impeded the colony formation of 4T1 cells . Subsequent assessments utilizing the patient-derived breast cancer organoid model have demonstrated notable anticancer efficacy . The development of this prodrug presents a promising strategy to mitigate the inactivation of cordycepin in cancer therapy and minimizing toxicity to healthy cells .
Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 1 ( TREM-1 ) plays a critical role in the initiation and advancement of cancer . The noninvasive and rapid detection of TREM-1 expression provides a significant value for oncologic diagnosis , tumor evaluation and the guide of TREM-1-targeted therapy . In this study , we developed three peptide-based TREM-1 targeted radiotracers and evaluated their radiochemical and biological properties , in order to identify the candidate for the detection of TREM-1 expression on tumors . Among three radiotracers , [Ga]Ga-NOTA-C-IPB-AIT showed a high radiochemical purity ( > 98 % ) , excellent stability and hydrophilicity , favorable binding affinity , remarkable tumor uptake , ideal tumor-to-muscle ratio , and prolonged tumor retention , indicating that it is promising for potential use in TREM-1 expression detection .
Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) following cardiopulmonary bypass ( CPB ) is driven by oxidative stress during lung ischemia-reperfusion injury ( LIRI ) . Mitochondrial-derived peptide MOTS-c has emerged as a regulator of mitochondrial-nuclear communication , yet its role in CPB-induced ARDS remains unclear . Here , we identify MOTS-c as a critical mediator of endothelial protection against LIRI through MYH9-dependent nuclear translocation and transcriptional activation of antioxidant genes . In rat LIRI models , endothelial cells exhibited the most significant MOTS-c upregulation , correlating with barrier preservation and reduced oxidative stress . Mechanistically , hypoxia-reoxygenation ( HR ) triggered reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) -dependent phosphorylation of MYH9 at Ser1943 via casein kinase II subunit alpha ( CK2A ) , enabling MOTS-c binding to MYH9-gamma-Actin complexes for nuclear transport . RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) combined with chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) revealed direct MOTS-c interaction with promoters of antioxidant genes ( e . g . , HMOX1 , NQO1 ) , which harbor antioxidant response elements ( AREs ) . Clinically , serum MOTS-c increments within 24 h post-CPB ( DeltaMOTS-c ) outperformed traditional biomarkers in predicting ARDS incidence , with multivariate models incorporating DeltaMOTS-c achieving superior discriminative power ( AUC = 885 ) . Exogenous MOTS-c administration in rats attenuated lung injury by reducing oxidative damage , inflammation , and mortality , recapitulating endogenous protective mechanisms . Our findings establish MOTS-c as a dual-function molecule-acting via ROS-CK2A-MYH9 signaling to activate nuclear antioxidant defenses and serving as a prognostic biomarker for CPB-related complications . This study bridges mitochondrial dynamics , nuclear transcriptional regulation , and clinical outcomes , offering novel preventive avenues for IRI-associated pathologies .
Personalized medicine holds great promise for treating the underlying causes of many human diseases with high precision . Low-dimensional carbon-based materials are being designed to more closely match specific delivery efficiency for targeted cancer treatment , while enabling the benefits of increased biocompatibility , high cargo-loading capacity and excellent light-responsive properties , including photoluminescence and photothermal effects . Here , we report an unprecedented example of glucose-based carbon-nanodots ( CDs-gluc ) obtained via a one-pot thermal process from glucose , without using organic solvent and additional reagents . The CDs-gluc nanostructures , composed of a C-sp2 inner core and a glucose outer shell , showed a high photothermal conversion efficiency ( eta = 7 % at 532 nm ) , good photoluminescence quantum yield ( varphi ( PL ) = 6 % ) , and low cytotoxicity . Measurements of cellular Zeta-potential demonstrated the effective interaction of CDs-gluc with the surface of cancer cells overexpressing the Glucose Transporter Type 2 ( GLUT2 ) . The effective and specific GLUT2-mediated internalization mechanism was demonstrated by inducing up- and down-regulation of the transporter expression under conditions of glucose excess and deprivation , through fluorescence correlation spectroscopy . The potential of the CDs-gluc as drug nanocarriers was demonstrated by entrapping the anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil , achieving a drug loading capacity of 5 +/- 8 % . In vitro experiments confirmed the excellent light-triggered cell damage activity and remarkable cell-targeting ability of CDs-gluc driven by GLUT2 expression . The easy and green preparation , biocompatibility , effective and specific cellular uptake , photoluminescence and hyperthermia make CDs-gluc appealing candidates in the research of novel nanostructures for cancer cell targeting .
Babesia bigemina is an intraerythrocytic parasite that causes bovine babesiosis and is responsible for economic damage to livestock in tropical and subtropical countries . Enolase is a glycolytic enzyme with multiple functions . In many pathogens , enolase contributes to the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin , which helps to degrade the fibrin of blood clots and various elements of the extracellular matrix , supporting the pathogen invasion process . In addition , enolase ' s antigenic and protective properties in several organisms , including the Apicomplexa parasites Plasmodium ssp , have been reported . This protein is considered a vaccine candidate . To determine whether B . bigemina enolase is antigenic and has some of the characteristics already described , we isolated the gene , cloned and expressed the recombinant protein , and performed different assays to evaluate its ability to bind to and activate plasminogen and induce neutralizing antibodies . First , we studied the conservation of the B . bigemina enolase protein ( BbiEno ) among Apicomplexa parasites ; then , we determined that it is transcribed and expressed in erythrocytic stages and tick stages via RTPCR . In addition , we expressed recombinant BbiEno ( rBbiEno ) and studied whether sera from naturally infected cattle recognized it via Western blotting . Besides , the ability of rBbiEno to bind and activate plasminogen was analyzed . Finally , we examined whether specific anti-rBbiEno antibodies could neutralize the merozoite invasion of erythrocytes . The results showed that BbiEno is a conserved and immunogenic protein ; it is transcribed and expressed in erythrocytic stages , and rBbiEno is recognized by the sera of naturally infected cattle . In addition , rBbiEno binds and activates plasminogen , and the specific anti-rBbiEno antiserum was able to neutralize the invasion of erythrocytes in vitro significantly . These results show that BbiEno could be considered a potential vaccine candidate .
Autophagy is an important factor in temozolomide ( TMZ ) resistance in glioblastoma ( GBM ) . Receptor-interacting protein 2 ( RIP2 ) is associated with autophagy , but its role and mechanism in regulating autophagy in GBM cells remain unclear . To analyze RIP2 expression in GBM in The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) dataset . GBM cells were stimulated using recombinant human RIP2 protein ( rRIP2 ) or RIP2 plasmid . Cell proliferation and apoptosis were assessed using CCK-8 assay and flow cytometry . Western blotting and immunofluorescence ( IF ) assays were performed to detect protein expression in cells and tumor tissues . Moreover , the relationship between RIP2-induced autophagy and TMZ resistance was verified in a GBM xenograft model . We determined that RIP2 expression was upregulated in GBM . rRIP2 and RIP2 overexpression induced TMZ resistance in the GBM cell lines . RIP2 overexpressing xenograft tumors have reduced sensitivity to TMZ . In addition , we showed that PD-L1 protein expression was upregulated in GBM tissues with RIP2 overexpression . rRIP2 and RIP2 overexpression induced autophagy in GBM cells through AMPK . Notably , RIP2 upregulated PD-L1 expression through the NF-kappaB signaling pathway , which induced autophagy and TMZ resistance in GBM cells . Moreover , NF-kappaB or autophagy inhibition reversed TMZ resistance in RIP2 overexpressing GBM cells in a xenograft model . In conclusion , RIP2 induces TMZ resistance in GBM cells by promoting autophagy through the NF-kappaB/PD-L1 signaling pathway , indicating that the RIP2/NF-kappaB/PD-L1 pathway may be therapeutic target for TMZ resistance .
INTRODUCTION AND IMPORTANCE : Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide , with small cell lung carcinoma ( SCLC ) accounting for significant morbidity and mortality . While SCLC typically arises from neuroendocrine cells in the central lung , primary pleural small cell carcinoma is exceedingly rare . Its atypical presentation poses diagnostic challenges , emphasizing the need for early recognition and accurate diagnosis to optimize outcomes . CASE PRESENTATION : A 70-year-old male presented with progressive shortness of breath and significant weight loss . Imaging revealed massive pleural effusion . Pleural fluid analysis via pleurocentesis , including cytological evaluation and cell block analysis , revealed features consistent with small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma . Immunohistochemical studies confirmed the diagnosis , with tumor cells positive for pancytokeratin , TTF1 , synaptophysin , and INSM1 , and negative for Napsin-A , p40 , WT1 , calretinin , and chromogranin . A Ki-67 proliferation index of >90 % indicated a highly proliferative tumor . Chemotherapy with Carboplatin and Etoposide was initiated , leading to a partial response as evidenced by follow-up PET-CT imaging . CLINICAL DISCUSSION : Primary pleural small cell carcinoma is an exceptionally rare and aggressive variant of SCLC . Accurate diagnosis relies on cytological and immunohistochemical analyses to differentiate it from other pleural malignancies , particularly mesothelioma . The high Ki-67 index indicates its aggressive nature . Management follows conventional SCLC protocols , with systemic chemotherapy as the primary treatment modality . The patient ' s partial response highlights the potential for disease control with prompt intervention . CONCLUSION : This case highlights the rarity and aggressive nature of primary pleural small cell carcinoma . Advanced diagnostic techniques and timely treatment are critical .
User-friendly , field-portable , and direct read-out mini-device is indispensable for under-developed countries or resources-insufficient areas . Herein , a field-portable handheld monitoring platform incorporating smartphone , 3D-printed device , and test strip stained with yellow fluorescence ( FL ) carbon dots ( YCDs ) proves the efficacy for real-time quantitation of Cr ( VI ) by a consecutive FL color transformation . YCDs were synthesized with starch , rhodamine 6G , and L-lysine through hydrothermal procedure , manifesting intriguing yellow-emitting behavior locating at 556 nm under 470 nm excitation . With increasing Cr ( VI ) concentration , FL intensity of YCDs at 556 nm is significantly quenched , accompanying by a continuous FL colour alteration from bright yellow to dark yellow . Inspired by above FL phenomena , YCDs-based test strips are fabricated to realize point-of-care quantifying of Cr ( VI ) . Inspiringly , developed field-portable handheld monitoring platform is further generalized to on-site quantify Cr ( VI ) concentration in tap water based on wide linear ranges of 0-800 muM , and low limit of detection of 349 muM . Furthermore , laser confocal imaging of HeLa cells corroborates that YCDs can be utilized for visual determination of Cr ( VI ) in living cells , illustrating that YCDs presents powerful biosensing application prospect .
Enantiomers are molecules that have the same molecular formula but the atoms are linked differently . Differentiation between enantiomers is highly significant in scientific research , particularly in pharmaceuticals . This research demonstrates how conventional Raman spectroscopy and statistical methods can be applied to the analysis of enantiomers . The purpose of this study was to demonstrate that Raman spectroscopy reveals distinct spectral differences between the enantiomers of thalidomide . Density Functional Theory ( DFT ) computations support this observation and offer detailed insight into the underlying vibrational landscape . By decomposing the observed peaks into individual vibrational modes , they help clarify the specific contributions to the experimental spectra and provide a rationale for the intensity differences between R- and S-thalidomide . Furthermore , we studied the biochemical changes of Caco-2 human colon cells caused by incubation with enantiomers of thalidomide . In summary , we found that Raman spectroscopic analysis is sensitive to identifying the enantio-discrimination of thalidomide . The approach presented in this study opens new possibilities to monitor the role of thalidomide in medicine .
A novel dicyanoisophorone-based turn-off fluorescent probe ( ISO-Si ) was rationally designed and synthesized for highly selective F ( - ) detection . The probe demonstrates aggregation-induced emission ( AIE ) characteristics with intense red solid-state fluorescence ( lambda ( em ) = 635 nm ) and a fluorescence lifetime of 17 ns . ISO-Si exhibited remarkable selectivity for F ( - ) over various competing anions with a rapid response time ( < 30 s ) , accompanied by a distinct bathochromic shift in UV-vis absorption spectra from 540 nm to 610 nm and visible color transition from fuchsia to purple . The sensing mechanism involved fluoride-triggered cleavage of tert-butyldimethylsilyl groups , inducing concentration-dependent fluorescence quenching with a detection limit of 73 muM . Practical applicability was successfully demonstrated through test strip analysis , water sample and living cell imaging , revealing significant potential for environmental monitoring and biological sensing applications .
Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) remains a formidable clinical challenge with limited therapeutic options . Recent advances in nanotechnology have introduced paradigm-shifting strategies that transcend the limitations of traditional treatments by offering precision , controllability , and multifunctionality in modulating the hostile post-injury microenvironment . This review systematically summarizes nanotechnology-based therapeutic approaches for SCI , including cell-based nanotherapeutics , nanogels/hydrogels , nano-engineered materials , and combinatorial strategies . We emphasize the synergistic design of multifunctional nanoplatforms that integrate neuroprotection , immune modulation , antioxidative capacity , and axonal regeneration within a single system . Special attention is given to microenvironment-responsive smart materials capable of dynamic therapeutic delivery in response to pathological cues . We critically analyze the challenges of clinical translation , such as the need for standardized safety evaluation and personalized therapeutic dosing , and explore emerging solutions including AI-driven nanocarrier design and organoid-based validation . By integrating interdisciplinary innovations , nanotherapies represent an irreplaceable therapeutic paradigm with the potential to achieve spatiotemporal precision and sustained regenerative support for SCI repair .
Combination therapy is a promising strategy for lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) , due to the advantages of overcoming drug resistance , side effects , and tumor heterogeneity . Herein , we report a novel dual-targeting bimetallic nanozyme ( MH-iRGD ) consisting of nanosized manganese ferrite ( MF ) after encapsulating with dopamine and methacrylic anhydride to modify hyaluronic acid , followed by integrin receptor targeting peptide ( HS-PEG3400-iRGD ) modification for LUAD targeted therapy . Our study confirmed that MH-iRGD combined with near-infrared irradiation ( NIR ) possessed dramatic photothermal effects and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production and GSH depletion abilities . Importantly , MH-iRGD possessed dual-targeting capacities for LUAD cells overexpressed CD44 and alphaV-integrin receptors owing to hyaluronic acid coating and iRGD modification . Inhibitors of CD44 and integrins could impair the uptake of MH-iRGD in LUAD cells . Moreover , MH-iRGD + NIR displayed excellent anti-LUAD effects as a result of the production of intracellular ROS , consumption of glutathione ( GSH ) and mitochondrial dysfunction . Mechanistically , NIR robustly strengthened MH-iRGD-induced ferroptosis and apoptosis by down-regulating SLC7A11 , GPX4 , Bcl-2 levels while up-regulating Bax level . Specifically , ferroptosis and apoptosis were increased while the LUAD progression was inhibited after intravenous injection of MH-iRGD + NIR in xenograft mouse models . Taken together , our results indicate that MH-iRGD + NIR serves as a promising targeted therapy for LUAD , which broadens the applications of highly active dual-targeting bimetallic nanozymes .
Chemo-photothermal synergistic therapy is an effective method for tumor treatment . Herein , the CuS/HKUST-1@PDA drug carrier was successfully prepared by a simple combination of in-situ partial vulcanization and in-situ polymerization technologies . The micro-structure , morphology , and functional groups of the prepared samples were characterized by XRD , SEM , TEM , BET , and FTIR technologies . The drug loading experiment verified that the CuS/HKUST-1@PDA possesses an excellent doxorubicin ( DOX ) drug loading capacity , whose drug loading capacity is as high as 7 % . The drug release indicated that CuS/HKUST-1@PDA drug carrier inherited pH-responsive drug release behavior , which it can release DOX in acidic conditions resembling the tumor microenvironment , while effectively containing the drug within the PDA coating under neutral conditions . The CuS/HKUST-1@PDA drug carrier demonstrated outstanding biocompatibility , sustaining cell viability above 80 % across a concentration range of 5-15 mug/mL . Moreover , the drug carrier realized chemo-Photothermal synergistic therapy triggered by near-infrared light in tumor treatment , reducing tumor cell viability to 28 % during in vitro cellular experiments . The innovative design and effective tumor treatment ability of the CuS/HKUST-1@PDA drug carrier highlight its significant potential in anticancer therapy .
Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , as the most commonly diagnosed type of lung cancer , has long been a major focus for cancer drug researchers . Traditional chemotherapy has shown significant efficacy in patients initially diagnosed with NSCLC ; however , with the emergence of drug resistance and notable toxic side effects , conventional and single-agent chemotherapy can no longer meet the treatment needs of patients . Nanomedicine systems have gained widespread attention among scholars due to their unique advantages , such as particle size , stable in vivo circulation , and multifunctional carrier materials . However , most single-drug delivery systems fail to meet the treatment expectations for NSCLC patients , prompting the active development of co-delivery nanomedicine systems in preclinical NSCLC research . These systems can utilize surface-modified carriers to co-deliver drugs , genes , photosensitizers , or sonosensitizers with different mechanisms of action . This approach not only achieves the synergistic effects of multiple drugs , multiple pathways , and the combination of chemotherapy with photodynamic/sonodynamic therapy but also , through the encapsulation of inorganic materials , allows for more controllable drug release under external forces such as magnetic fields . This further amplifies the synergistic effects between the drugs , and the results of these studies are significantly superior to those of single-drug treatments . In conclusion , this review summarizes the delivery strategies and the extended use of inorganic materials in the co-delivery of nanoparticles for NSCLC research in recent years , with the hope of providing reference for researchers ' drug design strategies .
Potyvirus is the largest genus of plant RNA viruses , and the members in the genus are known to cause significant damage to a wide variety of crops . In this study , we performed small RNA ( sRNA ) deep sequencing for identification of potential virus ( es ) in collected cucumber leaves with mosaic symptoms from fields in Beijing . Through this high-throughput sequencing and subsequent PCR amplification , we obtained a complete viral genome sequence of 10 , 044 bp , which showed the highest similarity to the watermelon mosaic virus ( WMV ) isolate FBR04-37 and exhibited the typical characteristics of potyviruses in its genome organization . The obtained WMV isolate was designated as WMV-BJ . We then constructed the infectious clone of WMV-BJ , which can successfully infect six kinds of cucurbitaceous plants by agroinfiltration . Among these , Cucumis melo showed obvious symptoms such as shrinkage and mosaic compared to other cucurbitaceous plants infected by this virus infectious clone . To understand the biological function of WMV-BJ , we further analyzed the dynamic subcellular localization and protein accumulation of WMV-BJ encoded 11 viral proteins . The results showed the WMV-BJ-encoded proteins displayed diverse subcellular localizations , and most viral proteins were easily degraded after expression in plant cells . Together , the construction of the WMV-BJ infectious clone in this study provides a valuable tool for further exploring the biology of this virus and the interaction between WMV-BJ and host plant , and useful information for investigating the functions of WMV-encoded proteins .
Functional short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels were developed using three different gelators . The mechanism of introducing short-chain fatty acids to the glycerol skeleton influencing the self-assembly of oleogels was investigated . Compared to camellia oil oleogels , the thermal stability and mechanical strength of short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels decreased by 17-37 J/g ( -1 ) and 27-39 N , respectively . The crystalline sizes , distance between molecules and the final sub-cell size in short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels were increased , while hydrogen bonding and van der Waals interactions were weakened , resulting in a weak crystal network structure . Besides , free fatty acids release by short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels ( 83 %-91 % ) was higher than that by camellia oil oleogels ( 01 %-99 % ) . These findings indicate that short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels exhibiting a weaker structure but a higher lipolysis degree , facilitated fatty acid absorption .
Protein poly-ADP-ribosylation ( PARylation ) is a post-translational modification formed by transferring successive units of ADP-ribose to target proteins to form poly-ADP-ribose ( PAR ) chains . PAR plays a critical role in the DNA damage response ( DDR ) by acting as a signaling platform to promote the recruitment of DNA repair factors to the sites of DNA damage that bind via their PAR-binding domains ( PBDs ) . Several classes of PBD families have been identified , which recognize distinct parts of the PAR chain . Proteins encoding PBDs play an essential role in conveying the PAR-mediated signal through their interaction with PAR chains , which mediates many cellular functions , including the DDR . The WWE domain , encoded in 12 human proteins , identifies the iso-ADP-ribose moiety of the PAR chain . PARylation is a heterogeneous structure that is highly dynamic in cells . Capturing the dynamics of PARylation is essential to understanding its role in the DDR , which can be achieved by expanding the tool kit for PAR detection and tracking mediated by the unique binding capability of various sensors . We recently described the WWE domain of RNF146 as a robust genetically encoded probe , when fused to EGFP , for the detection of PAR in live cells . Expanding on this , we used structural prediction tools to evaluate all of the WWE domains encoded in human proteins , evaluating each as molecular PAR probes in live cells . We demonstrate unique PAR dynamics when tracked by WWE-encoded PAR binding domains , in addition to an engineered macrodomain , that can be exploited for modulation of the PAR-dependent DNA damage response .
Safety of live vaccines is questioned in children with inflammatory bowel diseases and after liver transplantation receiving immunosuppressive therapy . The objective was to monitor the immunogenicity and safety of attenuated live vaccines against measles , mumps and rubella ( MMR ) in children receiving immunosuppressive therapy . In this prospective multicenter observational study ( DRKS00014569 ) 22 children and adolescents with incomplete MMR vaccination status were identified . Following individual assessment of vaccination readiness with stable immunosuppressive therapy in the last three months with no evidence of underlying disease activity , a risk-benefit assessment regarding vaccination with live-attenuated vaccines was performed . A checklist was used to assess the immune status based on thresholds for leukocyte , lymphocyte and CD4+ T cell counts , serum immunoglobulin G and M levels and detectable in vitro T cell activation . Sixteen patients were vaccinated against MMR , eleven after liver transplantation and five with inflammatory bowel disease . At the time of vaccination , four patients were receiving moderate ( e . g . , tacrolimus drug level below 5 ng/ml ) , eleven were receiving high-intensity immunosuppression ( e . g . anti-tumor-necrosis factor agents , mycophenolate mofetil ) and one child had previously discontinued immunosuppressive treatment . There were no serious adverse events or complications related to the vaccination . In children receiving immunosuppressive medications , the seroconversion rate for measles after the first MMR vaccination was 3 % ( 11/15 ) and after the second vaccination 80 % ( 12/15 ) . Specific in vitro lymphocyte reactivity to measles antigen was detectable in three out of four patients after vaccination . This study shows that MMR vaccination can be carried out under immunosuppressive therapy in selected patients without relevant side effects , and a specific humoral and cellular immune response could be achieved .
Monoacylglycerol lipase ( MAGL ) is a serine hydrolase that plays an important role in the metabolism of 2-arachidonoylglycerol ( 2-AG ) and degradation of peripheral monoacylglycerols . Many studies have revealed the potential utility of MAGL inhibitors as anti-inflammatory , anti-nociceptive and even anti-cancer agents . However , the use of covalent irreversible MAGL inhibitors showed an unwanted chronic MAGL inactivation associated with a functional antagonism of the endocannabinoid system . In this context , recent efforts were focused on the development of reversible inhibitors for MAGL . Herein , we reported the design and synthesis of a new series of piperazine derivatives possessing a naphthyl group ( 7-64 ) , leading to the identification of 55 , which displayed high MAGL inhibition with a pIC value of 0 +/- We further demonstrated the high selectivity and potency of 55 against endogenous MAGL in mouse brain membranes by using competitive ABPP . Moreover , 55 showed appreciable antiproliferative activity and apoptosis induction , as well as the ability to reduce cell migration in cancer cells such as HT- Altogether , these results culminated in the development of the naphthyl amide piperazine derivative 55 , which has the potential as a new scaffold for MAGL reversible inhibitor development .
RP33 is a form of autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa ( adRP ) , which is caused by heterozygous variants in the SNRNP200 gene . Peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) were isolated from a 31-year-old Chinese patient with a heterozygous c . 2359G > A variant in the SNRNP200 gene . PBMCs were reprogrammed into an induced pluripotent stem cell ( iPSC ) line BIOi004-A . The established iPSC line had normal karyotype , expressed undifferentiated stem cell markers , and was capable to differentiate into the three germ layers in vivo .
Chemical preservatives have been traditionally used to enhance the shelf life of cosmetics ; however , due to rising concerns regarding their potential adverse effects on human health , there has been an increasing shift towards the use of natural antibacterial agents . Castor oil , predominantly composed of ricinoleic acid , has demonstrated potential as an antibacterial agent . This study aimed to synthesize a multifunctional compound by combining ricinoleic acid , known for its antimicrobial properties , with ergosterol , recognized for its cholesterol-lowering effects . In this study , we synthesized ricinoleic acid ergosterol ester ( RAEE ) using castor oil and ergosterol as substrates and Proteus vulgaris K80 lipase as the catalyst . RAEE was purified using Prep-LC and its purity was verified through LC-MS analysis . Zeta potential measurements on bacterial cell membranes indicated RAEE ' s capability to adhere to bacterial surfaces . When administered in an emulsion formulation , RAEE exhibited antibacterial activity against Bacillus subtilis and Pseudomonas fluorescens . Additionally , propidium iodide uptake assays and fluorescence microscopy showed that RAEE induced bacterial cell death by increasing membrane permeability . Scanning electron microscopy of RAEE-treated bacteria revealed roughened cell surfaces with abnormal features , illustrating RAEE ' s substantial potential as a natural preservative in the cosmetics industry .
Among the complications occurring after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( HSCT ) , infection by human Cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) represents one of the most relevant in terms of morbidity/mortality and specific management is required by either monitoring viral load and administer anti-CMV therapies . Due to the physiological role of the Human Leucocyte Antigen ( HLA ) system in presenting foreign antigens to the adaptive immune system to enhance viral clearance , we measured here the HLA antigen load for two immunodominant CMV peptides and correlate with transplant outcome in 238 consecutive adult patients undergoing haploidentical HSCT at a single center . Interestingly , a higher class I antigen load ( i . e . above the median ) for protein IE1 correlated with an inferior absolute incidence of CMV infection ; moreover , a statistically significant correlation with lower non-relapse mortality and higher overall survival was observed ( HR : 32 , 12-84 , p = 02 ; 34 ( 17-69 , p = 003 ; respectively ) , with a protective effect in patients with high antigen load values . Despite additional research is needed , our exploratory data support the role of the HLA polymorphism on CMV infection and survival after HSCT . The introduction of CMV antigen load as a new potential predictive factor might contribute to further define the post-transplant risk on an individualised basis .
Macrophage foam cells derived from vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs ) account for 30-70 % of foam cells in atherosclerotic lesions . Liver X receptor ( LXR ) agonists promote high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) -mediated cholesterol efflux from macrophages . This study aimed to investigate the effects of LXR activation on the reverse cholesterol transport ( RCT ) rate from VSMCs to feces in vivo . Both human and mouse VSMCs exhibited similar levels of cholesterol efflux when exposed to serum and HDL . However , cholesterol efflux was significantly reduced following methyl-beta-cyclodextrin ( MBD ) -cholesterol loading , while treatment with the LXR agonist T090137 markedly enhanced efflux . Radiolabeled foam-like VSMCs injected intraperitoneally into mice exhibited impaired cholesterol transfer to serum , HDL , and feces compared to non-lipid-laden VSMCs . Pre-treatment with the LXR agonist increased radiolabeled cholesterol levels in serum and HDL and doubled its fecal excretion . Furthermore , LXR activation restored RCT from MBD-cholesterol-loaded VSMCs to feces , reaching levels comparable to those of non-lipid-laden cells . Treatment with an acyl-coenzyme A : cholesterol acyltransferase ( ACAT ) inhibitor fully restored RCT rates in foam-like VSMCs , and the combination of the ACAT inhibitor and the LXR agonist further enhanced RCT . These findings indicate that HDL-mediated cholesterol efflux is significantly impaired during the transition of VSMCs into foam cells . Pharmacological activation of LXR enhances RCT from VSMCs to feces in vivo and restores the impaired RCT from transitioning VSMCs . The combination of LXR agonists and ACAT inhibitors holds promise as a synergistic therapeutic approach to restoring cholesterol homeostasis in lipid-laden VSMCs , offering potential strategies to mitigate atherosclerosis .
Methotrexate ( MTX ) -induced hepatotoxicity is linked to oxidative damage and inflammatory processes . Hedera helix folium ( HHF ) extract protects cells against oxidative damage . We investigated the role of HHF extract in tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF-alpha ) and interleukin-10 ( IL-10 ) -associated inflammation and oxidative stress in the pathology of MTX-associated liver injury in rats . Forty male rats were divided into one of five equal groups : Control , HHF , MTX , H+MTX and H+MTX . HHF extract was administered via the oral route at 100 mg/kg or 200 mg/kg once daily for seven days , while MTX was administered as a single dose of 20 mg/kg intraperitoneally . Intracardiac blood samples and liver tissue samples were collected at the conclusion of the experiment . Serum alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) levels increased due to MTX . Increased ALT levels were significantly reduced by low-dose HHF and increased AST levels were significantly reduced by high-dose HHF administration . The application of MTX significantly increased malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and TNF-alpha levels , while significantly reducing those of glutathione ( GSH ) and IL- High-dose HHF also significantly lowered MDA and TNF-alpha levels , while significantly increasing those of GSH and IL- Histopathological damage findings observed due to MTX were significantly attenuated with high-dose HHF . In addition , the increased caspase-3 , p53 , and Bcl2 levels caused by MTX decreased with high-dose HHF administration . HHF extract can alleviate liver damage induced by MTX . This extract , which has the ability to reduce damage due to oxidative stress and inflammation , may represent an alternative approach to preventing MTX-induced liver damage .
A previous study reported that in patients with anterior cruciate ligament ( ACL ) injury , subchondral bone density in the proximal tibia was reduced in the antero-medial region , while it was increased in the postero-medial region . Anterior tibial instability due to ACL injury may be the cause of the remodeling in the proximal tibial epiphysis . The aim of this study was to determine whether re-stabilization of tibial instability by ACL reconstruction prevents remodeling in the rat proximal tibial epiphysis and if so , to find optimal timing of ACL reconstruction after ACL transection . ACL-transected rats were divided into immediate , early , and delayed ACL reconstruction ( 1 , 14 , and 28 days after ACL transection , respectively ) groups . Some ACL-transected rats were reared without ligament reconstruction . Untreated rats were used as controls . At 56 days after ACL transection , trabecular bone mass in the proximal tibia was assessed histologically by measuring the trabecular bone area . ACL transection decreased the trabecular bone area in the antero-medial region of the proximal tibia , while it did not alter trabecular bone area in the postero-medial region . This trabecular bone loss in the antero-medial region was prevented when reconstruction was performed 1 day after ACL transection , but not prevented by ACL reconstruction performed in later period , 14 or 28 days after ACL transection . Our results suggest that ACL reconstruction surgery should be performed as early as possible to prevent trabecular bone loss in the antero-medial region of the proximal tibia .
AIM : Trop2 , Nectin-4 , and PD-L1 are targets of antibody-drug conjugate ( ADC ) drugs and immunological agents , respectively , closely related to the biological characteristics of malignant tumors . This study analyzed the expression and clinical significance of Trop2 , Nectin-4 , and PD-L1 and their association with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) . METHODS : Clinicopathological data of 140 patients with ESCC undergoing radical resection at the Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University were retrospectively collected . Immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) was conducted to assess the expression of Trop2 , Nectin-4 , and PD-L1 in the specimens , with quantification and categorization of expression levels by the histochemistry score ( H-score ) . For PD-L1 , the combined positive score ( CPS ) was also evaluated . RESULTS : Positivity rates for Trop2 , Nectin-4 , and PD-L1 were 3 % , 7 % , and 6 % , respectively . Trop2 correlated with lymphatic vessel invasion , lymph node invasion , and advanced tumor stage , while Nectin-4 was associated with lymphatic vessel invasion , peripheral nerve invasion , lymph node invasion , and advanced pathological T stage . Additionally , PD-L1-positive patients exhibited higher rates of elevated Trop2 and Nectin-4 expression , increased lymphatic vessel invasion , and advanced pathological T stage compared to PD-L1-negative patients . Furthermore , among individuals potentially eligible for immunotherapy ( PD-L1 CPS >10 ) , PD-L1 expression displayed a significantly weak correlation with Nectin-4 expression . Furthermore , Trop2 served as an independent poor prognostic indicator for ESCC patients . CONCLUSIONS : The expression landscape of Trop2 , Nectin-4 , and PD-L1 in ESCC indicated the feasibility of combining immunotherapy with ADC drug-targeted therapies .
It is evident that a robust immune system keeps Candida albicans infection in check , but weakened immunity opens the door for shifting from a benign yeast form to an invasive hyphal form which leads to systemic candidiasis with high mortality rate . However , the crucial players contributing to the increased susceptibility of immune-deficient individuals to Candida infection remain obscure . To uncover the molecular differences between these conditions , blood-associated proteins from the NDEx database and differentially expressed genes from GEO datasets of immunocompetent and immune-deficient individuals infected with C . albicans were analysed . We focused on deregulated proteins exhibiting inverse expression patterns i . e . upregulated in one group and downregulated in the other and identified 539 proteins . Mapping them onto protein-protein interaction network reconstructed with blood- associated proteins , revealed that they exhibit in 45 hubs , 31 network nodes forming 29 intermodular complexes , and 69 clustered into 11 immunologically relevant MCODE modules . Amongst them 13 key host molecules emerging as key player based on their network topological properties . Furthermore , a machine learning model was developed with a precision of 85 % , recall of 92 % , F1-score of 89 % , and accuracy of 81 % which substantiates the robust association of 11 out of 13 proteins with fungal co-infections in immune-deficient individuals . These findings underscore key host proteins maintaining immune balance in healthy individuals while their disruption in immune-deficient conditions may weaken defense mechanisms and promote fungal infections . Identification of crucial proteins promoting T-reg cells proliferation and M2 macrophage polarization in immune-deficient conditions offers promising therapeutic targets following experimental validation .
INTRODUCTION : A new perspective on cancer metabolism suggests that it varies by context and is diverse . Cancer metabolism reprogramming can create a heterogeneous microenvironment that affects immune cell infiltration and function , complicating the selection of treatment methods . However , the specifics of this relationship remain unclear in breast cancer . This research aims to explore how glycolysis and fatty acid metabolism ( GF ) influence the immune microenvironment and their predictive capabilities for immunotherapy responses and overall survival . METHODS : We at first time identified 602 GF-related genes . Utilizing multiple datasets from various centers and employing 10 different machine learning algorithms , we developed a GF-related signature called GFSscore , driven by artificial intelligence . RESULTS : The GFSscore served as an independent prognostic indicator and demonstrated greater robustness than other models . Its validity was validated through multiple databases . Our study found that breast cancer patients with a high GFSscore , indicative of a greater tendency towards glycolytic activity , experienced poorer prognosis due to immunosuppression from distinct immune evasion mechanisms . Conversely , those with a low GFSscore , more inclined towards fatty acid metabolism , had better outcomes . Additionally , the GFSscore has the potential to forecast how well a patient might respond to immunotherapy and their susceptibility to chemotherapy medications . Moreover , we found that the overexpressed ACSL5 gene inhibits the proliferation of BRCA through experiments . CONCLUSIONS : The GFSscore may offer patients personalized therapy by identifying new therapeutic targets for tumors . By understanding the relationship between cancer metabolism and the immune microenvironment , we can better tailor treatments to individual patients .
Alcohol intake is a risk factor for development of osteopenia . Ethanol perturbs gene expression in osteoblasts and osteoclasts and disrupts growth plate morphology . Hepatic metabolism of ethanol to acetate elevates concentrations of acetate in the circulation . We investigated whether acetate could in part mediate the toxicity of ethanol in bone and on chondrocyte differentiation . When ethanol and acetate were compared by gavage for four consecutive days , none of eleven genes involved in bone homeostasis were significantly affected by acetate , but acetate responses significantly correlated with ethanol responses . Intraperitoneal injection with acetate to transiently elevate serum acetate for four consecutive days significantly increased expression of two markers of osteoclast differentiation , calcitonin receptor ( Calcr ) and Ocstamp . Early chondrogenic differentiation of ATDC5 cells for 7 days in vitro characterized by aggrecan ( Acan ) and collagen 2a1 ( Col2a1 ) mRNA expression and proteoglycan production was inhibited by both 50 mM ethanol and 5 mM acetate . Ethanol effects were not blocked by the alcohol dehydrogenase inhibitor 4-methylpyrazole . 50 mM ethanol retarded both ATDC5 cell growth and culture medium acidification . Inhibition of chondrogenic differentiation by 5 mM acetate was associated with elevated phosphorylation of ERK1 and ERK2 and decreased expression of transcription factors Sox9 and Runx In acetate-exposed cells , blocking of ERK1 and ERK2 phosphorylation with Trametinib prevented further reduction of Acan and Col2a1 mRNA expression . We conclude that ethanol-derived acetate mediates at least part of the induction of Calcr and Ocstamp expression , and that acetate mimics effects of ethanol on early chondrogenic differentiation .
The continuous improvement in progression-free survival ( PFS ) of multiple myeloma ( MM ) patients raises interest in evaluating peripheral residual disease ( PRD ) towards more frequent readouts of tumor kinetics while preserving quality of life . Here we present BloodFlow , a new method that combines immunomagnetic enrichment of CD138+ circulating plasma cells in peripheral blood ( PB ) with next-generation flow ( NGF ) , for the detection of PRD below the 2x10-6 NGF threshold . BloodFlow detected PRD in 55/644 ( 5% ) PB samples collected from 295 MM patients . Of note , 29/55 ( 7% ) PB samples were positive using BloodFlow and negative by NGF . The lowest level of PRD detected by BloodFlow was 6x10- Considering patients ' minimal residual disease ( MRD ) status in bone marrow as the reference , BloodFlow showed positive and negative predictive values of 1% and 6% . Presence of PRD during maintenance or observation predicted dismal progression-free and overall survival ( 2-year rates of 0% and 62% ) . BloodFlow surpassed NGF in PB and retained independent prognostic value for PFS in multivariate analysis including transplant-eligibility , the Revised International Staging System , complete remission and MRD status in bone marrow . BloodFlow is the first flow cytometry method that detects tumor cells below the 10-6 threshold , which resulted in improved minimally-invasive monitoring of MM patients .
The majority of calreticulin ( CALR ) mutations in myeloproliferative neoplasms ( MPNs ) are classified as either type 1 , a 52 base-pair deletion ( CALRdel52 ) , or type 2 , a 5 base-pair insertion ( CALRins5 ) . Both are gain-of-function ( GOF ) mutations that generate an identical mutant C-terminal tail , which mediates the binding to and activation of the thrombopoietin receptor MPL . We recently reported that despite this shared GOF , CALRdel52 but not CALRins5 mutations cause loss of calcium binding function , leading to activation of and dependency on the IRE1a/XBP1 pathway of the unfolded protein response ( UPR ) . This led us to ask whether CALRins5 mutations activate and depend on a different UPR pathway , and whether this is likewise mediated by a mutation type-specific loss-of-function ( LOF ) . Here , we show that CALRins5 mutations lead to activation of the ATF6 pathway of the UPR due to loss of CALR chaperone function . This LOF is caused by interference of the CALRins5 mutant C-terminus with key chaperone residue H Further , we show that CALRins5 cells are partially dependent on ATF6 for cytokine-independent growth , and identify BCL-xL as a transcriptional target of ATF6 that promotes type 2 CALR mutant cell survival .
Suppression of plasminogen activation and/or plasmin activity ( PA ) reduces blood loss and decreases hemorrhage-related death . However , whether the endogenous PA system is a biological mechanism to prevent intravascular thrombus formation is debated , and the potential that reduced PA may increase venous thrombosis/thromboembolism ( VTE ) risk cautions against the use of antifibrinolytic agents . We aimed to determine the contribution of PA to VTE . Type 1 plasminogen-deficient humans enrolled in the HISTORY registry ( https : //clinical trials . gov ; NCT03797495 ) reported pathologic pseudomembrane formation , but not unprovoked VTE . When subjected to an experimental model of venous thrombosis , compared to Plg+/+ mice , neither partial ( Plg+/- ) nor complete ( Plg-/- ) deletion of plasminogen altered thrombus mass or thrombus nucleated cell , platelet , or fibrin ( ogen ) content at 24 or 6 hours after thrombus induction . Administration of tranexamic acid ( TXA ) to mouse plasma in vitro or healthy mice in vivo dose-dependently delayed and suppressed plasma plasmin generation for up to 3 hours . However , mice administered TXA did not have significantly altered thrombus mass or thrombus composition at 24 or 6 hours after thrombus induction , despite unexpectedly persistent TXA in plasma . In a genome-wide association study , variants in gene regions encoding PA pathway proteins were not significantly associated with VTE risk . In the UK Biobank repository , plasminogen protein levels were not significantly associated with VTE risk . These data from genetic , pharmacologic , and proteomic analyses of mice and humans indicate that perturbations in PA do not increase VTE risk . Collectively , these results suggest PA is not a molecular regulatory mechanism to protect against VTE .
The recent global spread of mpox virus , facilitated by a newly established human-to-human transmission mode , has rekindled interest in poxviruses and the molecular factors defining their host range . Poxviruses employ host-range factors , a subset of their immune evasion proteins , to overcome cell-intrinsic defenses in specific cell types or host species . Over the past decade , investigations of these factors have revealed previously unrecognized antiviral mechanisms and expanded our understanding of innate immunity . Among the key developments are the discovery of novel restriction factors , including SAMD9 and SAMD9L ( SAMD9/9L ) , and expanded roles for established antiviral proteins such as IFITs , FAM111A , and ZAP . These advances not only clarify how poxvirus host range is determined but also offer valuable insights into the complexity and evolution of mammalian innate immunity . Here , I highlight new findings on poxvirus host-range determinants , with a particular focus on SAMD9/9L and the three distinct classes of poxvirus host-range factors that antagonize them . FAU - Xiang , Yan
Leptomeningeal disease ( LMD ) is the spread of cancer cells to the arachnoid mater , pia mater , and cerebrospinal fluid . It occurs in 5% to 10% of solid organ cancers , with higher rates in breast , lung , and melanoma cancers . The prognosis for patients with LMD remains poor , with a median survival of 5 months without treatment and 2 to 3 months with treatment , despite advances in cancer treatment . This retrospective study included 64 patients with LMD with primary cancers represented in the diagnosis-specific Graded Prognostic Assessment ( DS-GPA ) at a single institution over 5 years . Patient characteristics , treatment , and overall survival ( OS ) data were collected . Statistical analyses included descriptive statistics , log-rank tests , and Cox proportional hazards regression models . The median OS for the 64 patients with LMD was 6 months , with no statistically significant differences among cancer types . Though not statistically significant , those with higher DS-GPA scores trended toward longer survival in breast and lung cancer cohorts . Patients with LMD on imaging confined to 1 location ( cerebrum , cerebellum , spine , or cranial nerves ) and receiving systemic chemotherapy alone also had longer survival . The DS-GPA tool is promising for LMD prognostication and may be strengthened by incorporating imaging and chemotherapy characteristics . Larger , multicenter studies are needed to validate its prognostic utility . Keywords : Leptomeningeal disease , diagnosis-specific graded prognostic assessment , prognosis , overall survival , breast cancer , lung cancer . FAU - Kesireddy , Meghana
Anaplastic large cell lymphoma ( ALCL ) is a rapidly growing and aggressive hematological malignancy . We present the case of a 12-year-old adolescent boy with a 2-week history of left iliac fossa and presacral pain radiating to the lower limbs associated with emesis and constipation . Subsequently , the patient developed poorly controlled hypertension and progressive lower limb weakness . Imaging revealed an intradural extramedullary mass at the L1 level , and pathology reported large , atypical cells consistent with ALK -positive ALCL . This case highlights the rarity of isolated intradural extramedullary manifestations in the pediatric population . Keywords : Anaplastic large-cell lymphoma ; human central nervous system neoplasms ; pediatric oncology ; intradural neoplasms ; treatment outcome ; ALK protein , human . FAU - Soler , Nathalie
Immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) are increasingly used in the treatment of advanced malignancies , but they can cause a wide range of adverse effects , including inflammatory arthritis . Severe ICI-induced inflammatory arthritis ( ICI-IA ) is rare , and its distinguishing clinical features are not defined . We present a patient with metastatic urothelial carcinoma who developed severe , polyarticular inflammatory arthritis while being treated with an ICI . Arthrocentesis of native and prosthetic joints revealed a significantly elevated white blood cell ( WBC ) count with a neutrophil predominance . Antibiotics were discontinued when the extensive infectious workup remained negative , and the patient was diagnosed with ICI-IA . This presentation of ICI-IA had overlapping features with septic arthritis , resulting in high diagnostic uncertainty . We comprehensively reviewed all published literature on the clinical features of severe ICI-IA . In the literature , synovial fluid findings revealed variable WBC counts but consistently have a neutrophil predominance . Although severe cases are rare , 9 previously reported cases shared similarities , including polyarticular presentation , elevated inflammatory markers , and absence of other rheumatic disease . Severe ICI-IA appears to have significant clinical overlap with culture-negative septic arthritis . This case report and literature review emphasize that ICI-IA should not be ruled out based on the presence of synovial fluid with elevated WBC with a neutrophil predominance . Early steroid use should be considered . Keywords : checkpoint inhibitor , inflammatory arthritis , immune-related adverse effects . FAU - Anderson , Mary Katherine L
OBJECTIVE : Identify how surgical resection of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) affects systemic minimal residual disease ( MRD ) . METHODS : Pancreatic tumors were generated by orthotopic implantation of tumor cells into the pancreas of immunocompetent mice . Tumor resection was carried out via distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy . Liver metastases and microenvironment immune changes were analyzed in resected vs . non-resected mice . RESULTS : Resection was accompanied by proliferative expansion of liver metastases and an increase in hepatic metastatic burden . Postoperative immune changes predominantly manifested as a time-dependent increase in eosinophils and decrease in neutrophils . The postoperative hepatic eosinophilia was protective of further metastatic progression . The parenchymal findings were detectable in the circulation , and the trends observed in the mouse model modeled those seen in PDAC patients postoperatively . CONCLUSION : Collectively , we describe a preclinical resection model that offers a means to investigate MRD . Using this model , we delineated effects of surgical resection on metastatic outgrowth and uncovered a protective link between the postoperative hepatic eosinophilia and further metastatic progression .
The development of transient dissipative nucleic-acid-based reaction circuits and constitutional dynamic networks attracts growing interest as a means of emulating native dynamic reaction circuits . Recent efforts applying enzymes , DNAzymes , or light as catalysts controlling the transient , dissipative functions of DNA networks and circuits were reported . Moreover , the integration of the dynamic networks in protocell assemblies and the identification of potential applications are challenging objectives . Here , we introduce the adenosine ( AD ) aptamer subunit complex coupled with adenosine deaminase ( ADA ) as a versatile recognition/catalytic framework for driving transient allosterically AD-stabilized DNAzyme circuits or dissipative AD-stabilized constitutional dynamic networks . In addition , the AD/ADA-driven transient frameworks are integrated into liposome assemblies as protocell models . Functionalized liposomes carrying allosterically ATP-stabilized DNAzymes cleaving EGR-1 mRNA are fused with MCF-7 breast cancer cells , demonstrating effective gene therapy and selective apoptosis of cancer cells . FAU - Ouyang , Yu
Exploring the resistance genes of citrus to Huanglongbing ( HLB ) is the foundation and key to citrus disease-resistant breeding . Through the analysis of comparative transcriptome data , we identified six cell wall degradation genes that respond to citrus infection with CaLas . We selected one of the genes with high differential expression levels and cloned it , naming it CsPG The subcellular localization results of tobacco indicated that the CsPG23 protein is localized in the nucleus , cytoplasm , and cell membrane . Real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR ( RT-qPCR ) analysis showed that the expression of CsPG23 is related to variety tolerance , tissue location , and symptom development . In addition , we constructed overexpression and silencing vectors for CsPG23 and obtained CsPG23 silencing plants , overexpression and silencing hairy roots , and analyzed the expression characteristics of CsPG23 in response to SA , JA , MeSA and HO induction through RT-qPCR . Using Protein-Protein Interaction ( PPI ) to predict and screen for a citrus protein CsAGD8 that may interact with CsPG23 , and preliminarily verifying its interaction with CsPG23 protein through Yeast Two-hybrid ( Y2H ) . We constructed overexpression and silencing vectors for CsAGD8 and obtained CsAGD8 overexpression and silencing hairy roots . In summary , it is indicated that CsPG23 may interact with CsAGD8 in response to CaLas infection . FAU - He , Qing
Long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) are a significant yet largely uncharted component of the cancer transcriptome , with their isoform-specific functions remaining poorly understood . In this study , we employed RNA-targeting CRISPR-Cas13d to uncover and characterize hundreds of tumor-essential ( te ) -lncRNA isoforms with clinical relevance . Focusing on multiple myeloma ( MM ) , we targeted the lncRNA transcriptome expressed in tumor cells from MM patients and revealed both MM-specific and pan-cancer dependencies across diverse cancer cell lines , which we further validated in animal models . Additionally , we mapped the subcellular localization of these te-lncRNAs , identifying over 30 cytosolic isoforms that proved essential when targeted by cytosol-localized Cas13d . Notably , a specific isoform of SNHG6 , enriched in the endoplasmic reticulum , interacts with heat shock proteins to maintain cellular proteostasis . We also integrated functional and clinical data into the publicly accessible LongDEP Portal , providing a valuable resource for the research community . Our study offers a comprehensive characterization of te-lncRNAs , underscoring their oncogenic roles and therapeutic potential .
The autoimmune response driving hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell ( HSPC ) destruction in immune-mediated aplastic anemia ( AA ) remains incompletely understood . We previously identified a disease-specific immune cell network involving T- , B- , and myeloid cells . However , the interactions within this network , the interaction with the microenvironment and the chronological events in AA development , remain unclear . In this study , we aimed to characterize the changes occurring during disease development and to define the interactions between potential autoreactive cells and their target . Using imaging mass cytometry , we analyzed bone marrow ( BM ) biopsies from AA patients at diagnosis and after treatment with horse-derived anti-thymocyte globulin ( hATG ) , and six controls . Within the hypocellular BM architecture , we identified lymphoid-dominant ' immune hotspots ' with high densities of pro-inflammatory lymphocytes , and macrophage-enriched hotspots that additionally contained activated macrophages in proximity to progenitors . These immune hotspots potentially represent sites where the active immune response resulting in HSPC destruction takes place . In BM regions depleted of progenitors , effector cells with a differentiated phenotype remain . Our data indicate that HSPC destruction in AA is mediated by coordinated interactions among specific immune cell subpopulations . As the immune response progresses and HSPCs are depleted , the immune composition shifts , with activated T- and B-cells differentiating into terminally differentiated T-cells and plasma cells . In patients with normalizing BM post-hATG treatment , most immune hotspots were depleted , underscoring their potential pathogenic role . Collectively , our study visualizes the complex interactions among immune cell subpopulations and , for the first time , reveals the order of events in the immune-mediated pathogenesis of AA .
Nature has evolved adaptive strategies to protect living cells and enhance their resilience against hostile environments , exemplified by bacterial and fungal spores . Inspired by cryptobiosis in nature , chemists have designed and synthesized artificial " cell-in-shell " structures , endowed with the protective and functional capabilities of nanoshells . The cell-in-shells hold the potential to overcome the inherent limitations of biologically naive cells , enabling the acquisition of exogenous phenotypic traits through the chemical process known as single-cell nanoencapsulation ( SCNE ) . This review highlights recent advancements in the development of artificial spores , with sections organized based on the categorization of material types utilized in SCNE , specifically organic , hybrid , and inorganic types . Particular emphasis is placed on the cytoprotective and multifunctional roles of nanoshells , demonstrating potential applications of SCNEd cells across diverse fields , including synthetic biology , biochemistry , materials science , and biomedical engineering . Furthermore , the perspectives outlined in this review propose future research directions in SCNE , with the goal of achieving fine-tuned precision in chemical modulation at both intracellular and pericellular levels , paving the way for the design and construction of customized artificial spores tailored to meet specific functional needs . FAU - Rheem , Hyeong Bin
PURPOSE : Despite the significant improvement in outcomes for patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) , resistance , whether primary or secondary , remains a substantial challenge . Currently , reliable biomarkers to monitor ICI response are lacking , highlighting the need for minimally invasive tools like liquid biopsy to track treatment efficacy . This study aimed to identify circulating microRNAs ( miRNAs ) as potential biomarkers to track ICI response in patients with NSCLC . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The Apollo longitudinal study enrolled patients with advanced NSCLC receiving ICI in first or subsequent lines . Plasma samples were collected at baseline and follow-up to prospectively assess miRNA profiles until progressive disease ( PD ) . Using a custom reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction platform , 276 ratios among 24 lung cancer-related miRNAs were analyzed . The generalized estimating equation and joint models were applied to select the miRNA ratios most associated with PD over time . To control for multiple testing , the Benjamini-Yekutieli method was applied setting a 10% false discovery rate threshold . RESULTS : From the 211 patients , a total of 454 plasma samples were analyzed . Clinical and biochemical variables had little effect on miRNAs ' profile . The analysis identified nine miRNA ratios , all involving miR-145-5p , as significant biomarkers for monitoring treatment response , even after adjustment for the line of therapy . These ratios exhibited a longitudinal modulation pattern consistent with radiologic response , particularly in patients who initially benefited from ICI treatment . In addition , in an independent set of 32 plasma samples from 10 patients receiving ICI as maintenance therapy , the same trends were observed . CONCLUSION : A focused panel of miRNA ratios , driven by miR-145-5p , effectively reflects response to ICI therapy in patients with advanced NSCLC , highlighting their potential as biomarkers for treatment monitoring . FAU - Chiaruttini , Maria Vittoria
PURPOSE : The primary aim of this single-arm , phase II trial was to determine the objective response rate ( ORR ) with palbociclib , a selective CDK4/6 inhibitor , administered before chemoradiotherapy ( CRT ) in patients with human papillomavirus ( HPV ) -negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Eligibility required untreated stage III-IVB HPV-negative HNSCC . Palbociclib 125 mg once daily was administered on days 1-21 of each 28-day cycle for two cycles before and six cycles after CRT . Pretreatment tumor samples underwent genome sequencing . The primary end point was tumor response to palbociclib given before CRT , assessed by RECIST A sample of 24 evaluable patients ( those with response assessment ) yielded an 80% power at a one-sided significance level of 05 if the ORR was >/=38% ( null ORR 17% ) . A key secondary end point was relapse . RESULTS : We enrolled 26 patients with HPV-negative , locally advanced HNSCC . Alterations in CDKN2A were identified in 15 patients ( 58% ) , and alterations in CCND1 were identified in eight ( 31% ) . Twenty-four patients were evaluable for the primary end point , and 25 were evaluable for relapse . The ORR with palbociclib given before CRT was 7% ( 95% CI , 1 to 4 ) . Response to palbociclib occurred in 10 of 15 patients ( 7% ) with versus 0 of 9 ( 0% ) without tumor CDKN2A alterations ( P = . 002 ) and in one of six patients ( 7% ) with versus nine of 18 ( 50% ) without CCND1 alterations ( P = . 34 ) . The median follow-up was 9 months ( IQR , 3-2 ) . Relapse occurred in two of 15 patients ( 3% ) with versus seven of 10 ( 70% ) without tumor CDKN2A alterations ( P = . 009 ) and in one of seven patients ( 3% ) with versus 8 of 18 ( 4% ) without CCND1 alterations ( P = . 36 ) . CONCLUSION : Palbociclib is an active drug in previously untreated HPV-negative , locally advanced HNSCC . Alterations in CDKN2A were associated with a higher ORR with palbociclib and a lower relapse risk after CRT . FAU - Oppelt , Peter J
DNA logical circuits can be applied to accurate classification of cancer status , benefiting from their excellent biocompatibility and parallelism . However , the existing cancer diagnosis models based on DNA logic circuits mainly adopt a linear structure , which makes it difficult to fully capture the complex nonlinear distribution characteristics in the disease data . In addition , DNA logic circuits cannot directly sense the expression levels of microRNAs ( miRNAs ) . Here , we constructed a nonlinear classifier based on DNA logic circuits with the random forest algorithm . The classifier can directly sense the expression level of miRNAs in serum samples without isolating specific miRNAs and transmit the signals to the logic classification module and complete the nonlinear classification of cancer status . We validated the classification performance of the constructed nonlinear classifiers by using miRNA expression level samples to diagnose adenocarcinoma , ductal and lobular neoplasms , and squamous cell carcinoma with accuracies of 4% , 6% , and 2% , respectively . The classification results generated using the nonlinear classifiers based on DNA logic circuits showed a strong agreement with the actual disease states labeled in TCGA , as well as with the random forest algorithm , and had high parallelism and stability in the multiclassification of three different cancers . This work shows the great potential of DNA logic circuit-based nonlinear classifiers in cancer diagnosis , which provides a new approach to design efficient , accurate , and intelligent integrated disease diagnosis schemes . FAU - Chen , Chunlin
Advanced thyroid cancers are aggressive and often refractory to the current standard of care . The thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor ( TSHR ) is highly expressed in thyroid cancers and rarely expressed outside the thyroid , making it a viable target for developing radiotheranostics for imaging and therapy of advanced thyroid cancer . This study reports the radiosynthesis and preclinical evaluation of a Cu-labeled human antibody for positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging of TSHR expression in advanced thyroid cancer mouse models . Human anti-TSHR recombinant antibody K1-70 ( TSHR-Ab ) was labeled with copper-64 , yielding [Cu]Cu-NOTA-TSHR-Ab with a radiochemical yield of 89 +/- 74% , radiochemical purity of 77 +/- 89% , and specific activity >212 GBq/mumol ( n = 5 ) . In vitro studies on TSHR-positive ( THJ529T ( TSHR+ ) ) and wild-type ( THJ529T ( WT ) ) cells demonstrated the radiotracer ' s high specificity and nanomolar binding affinity for THJ529T ( TSHR+ ) cells , with a dissociation constant ( K ( d ) ) of 74 nM and an inhibition constant ( K ( i ) ) of 92 nM . ImmunoPET imaging in mice bearing dual-flank tumors ( THJ529T ( WT ) and THJ529T ( TSHR+ ) ) at multiple time points ( 1 , 2 , 4 , 18 , 24 , and 48 h ) postinjection ( p . i . ) revealed rapid tumor targeting and high uptake in TSHR-positive thyroid tumors ( SUV ( max ) : 63 +/- 42 , 82 +/- 44 , and 09 +/- 56 at 18 , 24 , and 48 h p . i . , respectively ) . Co-injection studies with varying doses of unlabeled TSHR-Ab ( 0 , 25 , 50 , 100 mug ) demonstrated that the coinjection significantly reduced background signals , especially in the spleen , liver , and bone , with a dose of 25 mug effectively reducing off-target signals without affecting tumor uptake . Biodistribution and immunohistochemistry analyses supported these immunoPET imaging results . Furthermore , a comparison study with traditional [F]FDG PET imaging showed that [Cu]Cu-NOTA-TSHR outperformed [F]FDG in tumor detection . In conclusion , [Cu]Cu-NOTA-TSHR-Ab is a promising radiotracer for PET imaging of TSHR-positive advanced thyroid cancers , with the potential to guide and monitor TSHR-targeted therapies . Further clinical evaluation of [Cu]Cu-NOTA-TSHR-Ab could provide valuable insights for patient stratification and optimization of anti-TSHR treatments . FAU - Fu , Wenhui
PURPOSE : Blockage of PD-1 with drugs such as nivolumab ( Nivo ) and pembrolizumab ( Pembro ) has been successfully implemented in the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma among other types of tumors . Exorbitant costs hinder access for many patients living in low- and middle-income countries ( LMICs ) . Dose reductions on the basis of pharmacodynamic studies have been used to allow access to these drugs to patients with no further options because of economic constraints . In this study , we aimed to systematically review and assess evidence regarding the efficacy and safety of this adapted intervention . METHODS : An expert librarian designed and conducted a literature search in MEDLINE , Scopus , Web of Science , EMBASE , Cochrane Central , and clinicaltrials . gov . Screening was conducted in a title/abstract and full-text phase independently and in duplicate . Primary outcomes were overall survival , overall response rates ( ORRs ) , and incidence of adverse events ( AEs ) . Data extraction was performed independently and in duplicate as well . A qualitative synthesis was performed and reported in the results . RESULTS : Six studies investigated Nivo as an intervention , two Pembro , and 1 both therapies , with a total of 161 patients overall . One study had a single-arm prospective trial design and the rest a retrospective cohort design . ORR ranged from 66% to 100% , with complete response rates between 38% and 75% . The incidence of AEs was mostly high across all studies ranging from 27% to 93% , most of it composed of grade 1-2 AEs ( 27%-80% ) . No study reported health-related quality-of-life outcomes . CONCLUSION : Low-dose anti-PD1 immune checkpoint inhibitors have shown to be adequate candidates for testing of their efficacy in randomized trials and could improve access to these high-cost medications for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma both in LMICs and high-income countries . FAU - Vaquera-Alfaro , Hector A
PURPOSE : Platinum-refractory advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) has poor outcomes and limited treatment options , especially in resource-constrained settings . Triple oral metronomic chemotherapy ( OMCT ) , involving low-dose continuous administration of chemotherapeutic agents , has shown promise in phase II studies but lacks evidence from randomized controlled trials . This study evaluated whether triple OMCT improves overall survival ( OS ) compared with chemotherapy of physician discretion ( CPD ) . PATIENTS AND METHODS : In this phase III randomized open-label study , 214 patients with advanced HNSCC who had previous platinum-based chemotherapy were randomly assigned 1 : 1 to receive either triple OMCT ( arm A ) with erlotinib , celecoxib , and methotrexate , or CPD ( arm B ) . The primary end point was OS , with secondary end points including progression-free survival ( PFS ) , quality of life ( QOL ) , and safety . Kaplan-Meier and log-rank tests were used for OS and PFS , and Cox-proportional hazard models estimated hazard ratios . QOL was evaluated using European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30 and FACT H&N . RESULTS : Median OS was 5 months in arm A and 1 months in arm B ( hazard ratio [HR] , 63 [95% CI , 47 to 83] ; P = . 00011 ) . Median PFS was 8 months in arm A and 7 months in arm B ( HR , 67 [95% CI , 52 to 87] ; P < . 0001 ) . Previous treatment was a significant prognostic factor for OS , while age , tumor site , and previous treatment were significant for PFS . Triple OMCT improved global health status , physical functions , fatigue , and insomnia . It was well tolerated , with fewer grade 3 or higher adverse events than CPD ( 0% v 3% , P = . 03 ) . CONCLUSION : Triple OMCT is an effective and safe treatment for advanced HNSCC after platinum-based chemotherapy . FAU - Kapoor , Akhil
Exfoliative toxins ( ETs ) are glutamyl endopeptidases ( GEPs ) belonging to the chymotrypsin-like serine protease family ( CLSPs ) , and they play crucial roles in diverse skin diseases . Specifically , exfoliative toxin C ( ExhC ) , expressed by Mammaliicoccus sciuri , is an atypical CLSP and has been classified as a moonlighting protein due to its ability to induce necrosis in specific cell lines , inhibit the phagocytic activity of macrophages , and cause skin exfoliation in pigs and mice . The latter function is attributed to the high specificity of ExhC for porcine and murine desmoglein-1 , a cadherin that contributes to cell-cell adhesion within the epidermis . Although the amino acid residues responsible for ExhC-induced necrosis have been identified , the specific cellular metabolic pathways leading to cell death remain unclear . Herein , we employed nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) and mass spectrometry ( MS ) to explore the metabolic pathways affected by the necrotic activity of ExhC in the BHK-21 cell line . The metabolic profile of cells exposed to subtoxic doses of ExhC revealed significant alterations in oxidative stress protection , energy production , and gene expression pathways . The data demonstrate the potential mechanisms of action of ExhC and highlight that this toxin causes cellular damage , even at low concentrations . FAU - Gismene , Carolina
The expression of programmed cell death ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) enables tumor cells to evade immune surveillance by T-cells . The level of PD-L1 on the cell surface plays a crucial role in the effectiveness of PD-L1-targeted immune checkpoint blockade therapy . Therefore , we utilized the unique trafficking capabilities of scavenger receptors ( SRs ) to direct PD-L1 to lysosomes for degradation . By employing click chemistry to conjugate the PD-L1 inhibitor BMS-202 with dendritic DNA scaffolds , we created a bifunctional compound , PBL1 , which is capable of simultaneously targeting both SRs and PD-L PBL1 effectively induces PD-L1 degradation both in vitro and in vivo , significantly reducing the off-target toxicity commonly associated with traditional PD-L1 inhibitors . The efficacy and specificity of PBL1 have been validated in A549 cells and zebrafish models . The development of this SRs-mediated lysosomal degradation strategy offers a promising new approach for cancer immunotherapy , providing a safer and more targeted alternative to existing PD-L1 inhibitors . FAU - Huang , Wenjing
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Thermal ablation is the standard of care treatment modality with curative intent for early-stage non-resectable hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) , but a durable response is limited-with up to 40% of HCC patients eventually experiencing local recurrence on post-treatment surveillance . While thermal ablation has been established to cause immediate cell death in the center of the thermal ablation zone , its metabolic impact in the peri-ablational region remains unclear . We aimed to elucidate the metabolic mechanism by which Galectin-1 ( Gal-1 ) promotes thermal-ablation-induced hyperthermia resistance in HCC and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of inhibiting Gal-1 in combination with thermal ablation in vivo . APPROACH AND RESULTS : Proteomic analysis was performed using an untargeted approach on pre-ablation formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded ( FFPE ) biopsy specimens of thermal ablation responders ( n=32 ) and nonresponders ( n=23 ) . Gal-1 was found to be overexpressed in thermal ablation nonresponders compared to responders . Moreover , HCC with Gal-1 overexpression demonstrated reduced sensitivity to hyperthermia in vitro and increased utilization of glycolysis and downstream TCA cycle under hyperthermia-induced stress . Gal-1-overexpressing HCC enhanced its metabolic utilization through Gal-1-facilitated GM1-ganglioside breakdown , producing galactose to increase the metabolic influxes into glycolysis and consequently the downstream TCA cycle . In vivo studies showed that inhibiting Gal-1 in combination with thermal ablation significantly reduced tumor size compared to either monotherapy thermal ablation or Gal-1 inhibition alone . CONCLUSIONS : Gal-1 can mediate hyperthermia resistance in HCC and can potentially be modulated as a therapeutic target to reduce rapid progression after thermal ablation .
PURPOSE : To determine the incidence of and risk factors for persistent anterior uveitis following cataract surgery . METHODS : This was a retrospective cohort study of patients who underwent cataract surgery at a tertiary referral center in Connecticut , USA . Those with prior uveitis , complex ocular pathology , concurrent procedures , and surgical complications were excluded . The outcome was development of persistent anterior uveitis , defined as anterior chamber cell grade >/= 5+ and steroid treatment beyond two months . Patients who did and did not develop persistent anterior uveitis were compared using univariate and multivariate analysis . RESULTS : Of 3341 patients ( 5419 eyes ) , 45 developed persistent anterior uveitis ( 1% incidence ) . Cases were significantly younger ( 6 years vs . 6 years , p < 001 ) , and there were significantly higher proportions of female ( 8% compared to 5% , p = 016 ) and Black or African American ( 1% vs . 5% , p < 001 ) patients , as well as those with age-related macular degeneration ( 8% vs . 5% , p < 001 ) , previous intravitreal injections ( 8% vs . 0% , p = 004 ) , and diabetes ( 0% vs . 9% , p = 013 ) . In multivariate analysis , older age was associated with a significantly lower likelihood of persistent anterior uveitis ( adjusted odds ratio ( AOR ) = 963 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) =[942 , 984] ) , whereas Black race ( AOR = 102 , 95% CI = [836 , 133] ) and wet age-related macular degeneration ( AOR = 700 , 95% CI = [408 , 792] ) were associated with a significantly higher likelihood . CONCLUSIONS : In this study , 1% of eyes developed persistent anterior uveitis following cataract surgery . Younger age , Black race , and wet age-related macular degeneration should be investigated as potential risk factors to improve its prophylaxis , identification , and management . FAU - Marks , Victoria
This study advances anode-free lithium-metal batteries ( AFLMBs ) by integrating nickel-rich NMC90 cathodes and fluorine-rich electrolytes in large-format 18650 cylindrical cells . A key innovation is the incorporation of 10 wt % Li-rich LiNiO as a prelithiation agent in the cathode , which mitigates initial lithium-loss and improves the Coulombic efficiency . The electrolyte includes 30% ( v/v ) fluoroethylene carbonate ( FEC ) as a cosolvent , which suppresses inactive lithium deposition and stabilizes the solid electrolyte interphase ( SEI ) . Unlike conventional AFLMBs that require external pressure , this work uses a stainless-steel casing with a tailored jelly roll configuration to mechanically regulate lithium plating . The optimized cells deliver an energy density of 320 Wh/kg , maintain stable cycling over 140 cycles , and support 4C-rate operation . Post-mortem analysis reveals a LiF-rich SEI that extends the cycle life , while operando X-ray diffraction provides insights into structural evolution . This research offers a scalable strategy for high-energy AFLMBs through the synergy of prelithiation , electrolyte design , and mechanical stabilization . FAU - Sangsanit , Thitiphum
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) are well integrated into multiple facets of cellular physiology and potentially represent an effective platform for the engineering of heterologous metabolic pathways . LDs of chloroplasts , known as plastoglobules , are critical mediators of stress tolerance through dynamic and reversible changes to morphology and molecular composition , however the dynamics and functional role ( s ) of cyanobacterial LDs are almost wholly unknown . We have characterized the morphological behavior and quantitative proteome and lipidome of cyanobacterial LDs of Synechocystis sp . PCC 6803 grown under permissive or P-deficient media for 7 days . Our results show that cyanobacterial LDs are a metabolically active sub-compartment of cyanobacteria with dynamic morphology and composition . The proteome and lipidome is qualitatively similar to that of plant plastoglobules including an enrichment of prenyl lipids and presence of twelve orthologs of A . thaliana plastoglobule proteins . In view of these results , we propose to name cyanobacterial LDs as cyanoglobules . In addition , we identify the cyanoglobules as the site of accumulation of various plastoquinone derivatives containing hydroxyl- and/or acyl- groups on their solanesyl tail or quinone head . Deletion mutants of selected cyanoglobule proteins reveal impairments in growth , pigmentation and photosynthesis . Our results collectively support an evolutionary relationship between cyanoglobules and plastoglobules and reveal a possible central role for cyanoglobules in organismal physiology and stress adaptation .
Significant progress in the application of immune checkpoint blockade ( ICB ) for the treatment of multiple types of cancers has been achieved , but its overall response rate and therapeutic efficacy remain unsatisfactory . To address these limitations , the identification of a combinational approach to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of ICB is needed . The activation of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes ( cGAS-STING ) signaling is critical to the induction of antitumor innate immune responses and is a promising target for the development of combinational immunotherapy . Here , through the Connectivity Map database and a kinase inhibitor library screen using interferon-stimulated genes ( ISGs ) as a functional readout , we identified PIKfyve as a negative regulator of cGAS-STING signaling . The inhibition of PIKfyve by the kinase inhibitor YM201636 , or genetic ablation elicited the expression of ISGs downstream of cGAS-STING and reshapes the antitumor microenvironment by recruiting CD8+ T lymphocytes . In melanoma models , PIKfyve inhibition conferred sensitivity to the combinational therapy of cisplatin and anti-PD1 , which lead to a durable treatment response . Depletion of Sting or CD8+ T cells in B16F10 tumor significantly weakened the synergistic effect of PIKfyve inhibition and cisplatin . Mechanistically , PIKfyve interacts with STING to facilitate its trafficking from endosome to lysosome for degradation , thereby suppressing the STING-signaling mediated antitumor activity . These results highlight the importance of maintaining STING signaling as a direction to augment the efficacies of combinational immunotherapies . FAU - He , Jie
Plant roots dynamically respond to nitrogen availability by executing a signaling and transcriptional cascade resulting in altered plant growth that is optimized for nutrient uptake . The NIN-LIKE PROTEIN 7 ( NLP7 ) transcription factor senses nitrogen and , along with its paralog NLP6 , partially coordinates transcriptional responses . While the post-translational regulation of NLP6 and NLP7 is well established , their upstream transcriptional regulation remains understudied in Arabidopsis ( Arabidopsis thaliana ) and other plant species . Here , we dissected a known sub-circuit upstream of NLP6 and NLP7 in Arabidopsis , which was predicted to contain multiple multi-node feedforward loops suggestive of an optimized design principle of nitrogen transcriptional regulation . This sub-circuit comprises AUXIN RESPONSE FACTOR 18 ( ARF18 ) , ARF9 , DEHYDRATION-RESPONSIVE ELEMENT-BINDING PROTEIN 26 ( DREB26 ) , Arabidopsis NAC-DOMAIN CONTAINING PROTEIN 32 ( ANAC032 ) , NLP6 and NLP7 and their regulation of NITRITE REDUCTASE 1 ( NIR1 ) . Conservation and divergence of this circuit and its influence on nitrogen-dependent root system architecture were similarly assessed in tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) . The specific binding sites of these factors within their respective promoters and their putative cis-regulatory architectures were identified . The direct or indirect nature of these interactions was validated in planta . The resulting models were genetically validated in varying concentrations of available nitrate by measuring the transcriptional output of the network revealing rewiring of nitrogen regulation across distinct plant lineages .
Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is a central nervous system ( CNS ) disease with a high disability rate , and reconstructing motor function after SCI remains a global challenge . Recent advancements in rehabilitation and regenerative medicine offer new approaches to SCI repair . Electrical stimulation has been shown to alter cell membrane charge distribution , generating action potentials , and affecting cell behavior . This method aids axon regeneration and neurotrophic factor upregulation , crucial for nerve repair . Biomaterials , used as scaffolds or coatings in cell culture and tissue engineering , enhance cell proliferation , migration , differentiation , and tissue regeneration . Electroactive biomaterials combined with electrical stimulation show promise in regenerating nerve , heart , and bone tissues . In this paper , different types of electrical stimulation and biomaterials applied to SCI are described , and the current application and research progress of electrical stimulation combined with biomaterials in the treatment of SCI are described , as well as the future prospects and challenges . FAU - Du , Lulu
Nisin , derived from Streptococcus lactis , is the only approved bacteriocin for food preservation . With wide application in multitudinous food , progressively increasing studies have focused on its anti-inflammatory activity , while its structure-effect relationship and molecular mechanism remain unclear . In this study , the anti-inflammatory efficiency and structural differences of two typical types of nisin , A and Z , were first compared based on a mouse model . The self-assembly behavior of nisin was uncovered , and the characteristics of the self-assembled nanoscale nisin were explored . Based on the transcriptomic analysis , the anti-inflammatory mechanisms of the ribosomal pathway activation of both nisin A and nisin Z were further analyzed , and the upregulation of atp7b and entpd4 triggered by A and Z , respectively , and the consequent adenosine production levels elucidated the therapeutic differences . This study deepens the understanding of the structural and molecular mechanisms underlying the anti-inflammatory activity of nisin and provides an innovative horizon for the future application of nisin . FAU - Li , Yonglu
Serine functions as both a substrate for protein biosynthesis and a signaling molecule for growth and development . However , the mechanism remains poorly understood . Here , we cloned and functionally characterized the maize ( Zea mays ) gene Dek20 , which encodes phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase1 ( PGDH1 ) , the rate-limiting enzyme in the phosphorylated pathway of serine biosynthesis ( PPSB ) . The dek20 ( Ser282Leu ) mutation disrupts the interaction between residues Ser282 and His284 , leading to the release of His284 , which subsequently binds NAD+/NADH to inhibit serine biosynthesis . Consequently , serine content decreases dramatically , and the cellular response to nutrient starvation is enriched in transcriptome analysis . Serine deficiency triggers tRNASer degradation and reduced translation elongation at serine codons . The stalled ribosomes activate General Control Nonderepressible 2 ( GCN2 ) kinase , which affects the phosphorylation of eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha ( eIF2alpha ) and ribosomal protein S6 kinase ( S6K ) , furtherly inhibiting translation initiation . Consistent with these findings , polysome profiling and Ribo-seq analysis revealed a marked decrease in translation efficiency in dek Notably , proteins essential for storage compound biosynthesis and cell cycle progression exhibit reduced translation in dek Collectively , our findings reveal the primary serine biosynthesis pathway and a mechanism for monitoring amino acid levels in maize , the model plant with C4 photosynthesis .
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are pivotal regulators of gene expression and emerging biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and inflammation monitoring . Sensitive and specific detection methods for miRNAs are crucial for advancing their clinical and research applications . In this study , we present a CRISPR-based biosensor driven by a dual-circle amplification cascade . This system combines rolling circle amplification ( RCA ) for initial signal amplification and a secondary amplification cycle within the RCA products , enabling precise miRNA expression detection across different cell types . The method is highly sensitive and specific and requires minimal sample input . Using miRNA-221 as a model , the system demonstrated a linear detection range from 15 fM to 1 nM and a detection limit of 35 fM . It also effectively differentiated miRNA expression profiles across various cell types , supporting cell classification based on miRNA signatures . Furthermore , the platform ' s versatility was confirmed with miRNA-155 , highlighting its ability to monitor miRNA expression changes in macrophages upon immune stimulation . The system ' s modular design allows easy adaptation to other miRNA targets , making it a robust tool for miRNA research . This biosensor provides a powerful approach for miRNA profiling in complex biological samples , offering valuable insights into cancer and inflammation with potential for clinical diagnostics and therapeutic monitoring . FAU - Liu , Qirui
PURPOSE : To suggest a new surgical approach for the treatment of failed deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty ( DALK ) because of posterior opacities or persistent Descemet membrane ( DM ) detachment and to report the outcome of femtosecond intralase-enabled Descemet membrane endothelial keratoplasty ( FE-DMEK ) in a series of patients with DALK graft failure . METHODS : A retrospective case series of eight patients who underwent FE-DMEK for failed DALK at Toronto Western Hospital . RESULTS : Eight eyes of eight patients ( four female and four male ) aged 91 +/- 66 years were included . Average follow-up time after DMEK surgery was 0 months ( range 8-1 ) . Indications for DALK surgery were corneal dystrophy in four patients , corneal scars in two patients , and keratoconus in two patients . DALK failure was because of endothelial/stromal scarring in three patients , recurrence of corneal dystrophy in the stromal interface in three patients , endothelial decompensation in one patient , and persistent DM detachment that created a double chamber in one patient . All DMEK procedures were uneventful . Rebubbling was indicated in 5/8 ( 5% ) patients , performed at a mean time of 6 days ( range 3-26 days ) . Mean best-corrected distance visual acuity at 12 months and final visit was 37 +/- 10 logMAR ( Snellen equivalent approximately 20/45 ) and 25 +/- 16 logMAR ( Snellen equivalent approximately 20/35 ) , respectively . Endothelial cell-loss rates were 39% at 1 year . CONCLUSIONS : FE-DMEK is effective in managing DALK graft failure in selected cases . Postoperative outcomes are favorable , with detachment and rebubbling rates comparable with those reported for DMEK after failed PK .
PURPOSE : To evaluate the morphology of donor grafts and limbal microstructure after keratolimbal allograft ( KLAL ) surgery using anterior segment optical coherence tomography ( AS-OCT ) and to explore the relationship between graft shape and clinical outcomes . METHODS : This retrospective study included patients with limbal stem cell deficiency from severe ocular surface burns who underwent KLAL with or without concurrent keratoplasty . AS-OCT was used to assess graft morphology and the graft-recipient interface . Grafts were classified into 3 types-wedge-shaped , trapezoidal , and irregular-shaped-based on AS-OCT imaging . Postoperative clinical outcomes , including neovascularization , conjunctivalization , and corneal opacity , were recorded and compared across graft types . RESULTS : Among 26 eyes from 23 patients , wedge-shaped grafts showed significantly higher success rates , with fewer complications of neovascularization , conjunctivalization , and corneal opacity , compared with trapezoidal and irregular-shaped grafts . Specifically , wedge-shaped grafts had superior outcomes in neovascularization ( vs . trapezoidal : chi2 = 658 , P = 017 ; vs . irregular : chi2 = 062 , P = 014 ) , conjunctivalization ( vs . trapezoidal : chi2 = 855 , P = 016 ; vs . irregular : chi2 = 814 , P = 009 ) , and corneal opacity ( vs . trapezoidal : chi2 = 088 , P = 008 ) . AS-OCT imaging showed closer adherence of wedge-shaped grafts to the recipient bed , potentially enhancing stability , whereas trapezoidal and irregular-shaped grafts exhibited gaps that may hinder attachment . CONCLUSIONS : AS-OCT imaging effectively visualizes donor graft morphology and graft-recipient microstructure , providing insights into KLAL outcomes . Wedge-shaped grafts , which align more closely with natural limbal anatomy , show greater ocular surface stability .
BACKGROUND : Failure to develop protective immunity in response to vaccination is common among kidney transplant recipients , rendering them susceptible to severe infection . Novel strategies are required . Here , we investigated the potential of mechanistic-target-of-rapamycin ( mTOR ) inhibitors to improve vaccine responses . METHODS : Humoral and cellular responses to primary COVID-19 vaccination ( ChAdOx1 or BNT162b2 ) were assessed for kidney transplant recipients receiving mTOR inhibitor-based ( mTOR inhibitor , mycophenolate , prednisolone , N=15 ) and standard-of-care ( tacrolimus , mycophenolate , prednisolone , N=40 ) immunosuppression , and healthy cohabitants ( N=71 ) , in a prospective observational study . Findings were validated and mechanisms explored in mice . Low/non-responding kidney transplant recipients receiving standard-of-care immunosuppression ( N=54 ) were then randomized 1 : 1 to switch from mycophenolate to sirolimus , or remain on standard-of-care , for 4 weeks prior to receiving COVID-19 booster vaccination . Augmentation of immunity to COVID-19 was assessed as the primary outcome measure . RESULTS : A 12-fold greater IFNgamma-T cell response to primary vaccination was observed in kidney transplant recipients receiving mTOR inhibitor-based versus standard-of-care immunosuppression ( 520 vs 43 spot-forming units/106 cells , p < 001 ) . A greater frequency of functional memory T cells in the mTOR inhibitor group was observed for both the CD4+ ( 20% vs . 05% , p < 001 ) and CD8+ ( 35% vs . 07% , p = 006 ) compartments by flow cytometry , and kidney transplant recipients receiving mTOR inhibitor-based immunosuppression produced greater frequencies of SARS-CoV-2-specific CD4+ T cells than healthy cohabitants ( 17% vs 48% , p = 03 ) . In mice , sirolimus treatment enhanced both recall and de novo T cell responses to homologous and Omicron-specific booster vaccines . Switch from mycophenolate to sirolimus was well tolerated , however no significant difference was observed in the proportion of kidney transplant recipients in the intervention and control arms that achieved protective virus neutralization ( 10/25 [40%] vs 9/21 [43%] respectively , p = 85 ) , nor in T cell response to vaccination ( p = 89 ) . Conclusions : mTOR inhibition was associated with improved T cell memory formation in kidney transplant recipients , however this effect was not reproduced by a short-term mycophenolate to sirolimus switch strategy .
Mitochondria fulfill central functions in metabolism and energy supply . They express their own genome , which encodes key subunits of the oxidative phosphorylation system . However , central mechanisms underlying mitochondrial gene expression remain enigmatic . A lack of suitable technologies to target mitochondrial protein synthesis in cells has limited experimental access . Here , we silenced the translation of specific mitochondrial mRNAs in living human cells by delivering synthetic peptide-morpholino chimeras . This approach allowed us to perform a comprehensive temporal monitoring of cellular responses . Our study provides insights into mitochondrial translation , its integration into cellular physiology , and provides a strategy to address mitochondrial gene expression in living cells . The approach can potentially be used to analyze mechanisms and pathophysiology of mitochondrial gene expression in a range of cellular model systems . FAU - Cruz-Zaragoza , Luis Daniel
Enteric nervous system ( ENS ) -derived neuropeptides modulate immune cell function , yet our understanding of how inflammatory cues directly influence enteric neuron responses during infection is considerably lacking . Here , we characterized a primary enteric sensory neuron ( PSN ) subset producing the neuropeptides neuromedin U ( NMU ) and calcitonin gene-related peptide beta ( CGRPbeta ) and coexpressing receptors for the type 2 cytokines interleukin-4 ( IL-4 ) and IL- Type 2 cytokines amplified NMU and CGRPbeta expression in PSNs , in vitro and in vivo , which was abrogated by PSN-specific Il13ra1 deletion . Deletion of Il13ra1 in PSNs impaired host defense to the gastrointestinal helminth Heligmosomoides polygyrus and blunted muscularis immune responses . Co-administration of NMU23 and CGRPbeta rescued helminth clearance deficits and restored anti-helminth immunity , highlighting the essential bi-directional neuro-immune crosstalk regulating intestinal type 2 inflammation . FAU - Barilla , Rocky M
Cardiovascular diseases including atherosclerosis and heart failure , arise from the intricate interplay of metabolic , immune , and neural dysregulation within vascular and cardiac tissues : This review focuses on integrating recent advances in metabolic and immune crosstalk of the cardiac vasculature that affects cardiometabolic health and disease progression . Coronary and lymphatic endothelial cells regulate cardiac metabolism , and their dysfunction is linked to cardiovascular diseases . Lymphatics maintain tissue homeostasis , including clearing metabolic waste , lipids , and immune cells , and their maladaptation in metabolic diseases worsens outcomes . Altered vascular endothelial metabolism in heart failure drives immune-mediated inflammation , fibrosis , and adverse cardiac remodeling . Concurrently , artery tertiary lymphoid organs formed in the adventitia of advanced atherosclerotic arteries , serve as pivotal neuroimmune hubs , coordinating local immunity through T and B cell activation and neurovascular signaling via artery-brain circuits . T cells within plaques and artery tertiary lymphoid organs undergo clonal expansion as a result of peripheral tolerance breakdown , with proinflammatory CD4 ( + ) and CD8 ( + ) subsets amplifying atherosclerosis , effects further shaped by systemic immune activation . Therapeutic strategies targeting endothelial cell metabolism , lymphatic dysfunction , neuroimmune crosstalk , and T cell plasticity hold promise for integrated cardiovascular disease management . FAU - Mohanta , Sarajo K
The heart does not work in isolation , with cardiac health and disease occurring through complex interactions between the heart with multiple organs . Furthermore , the integration of organ-specific lipid metabolism , blood pressure , insulin sensitivity , and inflammation involves a complex network of signaling pathways between many organs . Dysregulation in these communications is now recognized as a key contributor to many manifestations of cardiovascular disease . Mechanistic characterization of specific molecules mediating interorgan signaling has been pivotal in advancing our understanding of cardiovascular disease . The discovery of insulin , glucagon , and other hormones in the early 20th century illustrated the importance of communication between organs in maintaining physiological homeostasis . For example , elegant studies evaluating insulin signaling and its role in regulating glucose metabolism have shed light on its broader impact on cardiovascular health , hypertension , atherosclerosis , and other cardiovascular disease risks . Recent technological advances have revolutionized our understanding of interorgan signaling . Global approaches such as proteomics and metabolomics applications to blood have enabled the simultaneous profiling of thousands of circulating factors , revealing previously unknown signaling molecules and pathways . These large-scale studies have identified biomarkers linked to early stages of heart disease and offered new therapeutic targets . By understanding how specific cells in the heart interact with cells in other organs , such as the kidney or liver , researchers can identify key pathways that , when disrupted , lead to cardiovascular pathology . The ability to capture a more holistic view of the cardiovascular system positions interorgan signaling at the forefront of cardiovascular research . As we continue to refine our tools for mapping these complex networks , the insights gained hold the potential to not only improve early diagnosis but also to develop more targeted and effective treatments for cardiovascular disease . In this review , we discuss current approaches used to enhance our understanding of organ crosstalk with a specific emphasis on cardiac and cardiovascular physiology . FAU - Bae , Hosung
Over the past few decades , the rising burden of metabolic disease , including type 2 diabetes , prediabetes , obesity , and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease , has corresponded with fundamental shifts in the landscape of heart failure ( HF ) epidemiology , including the rising prevalence of HF with preserved ejection fraction . It has become increasingly important to understand the role of extracardiac contributors and interorgan communication in the pathophysiology and phenotypic heterogeneity of HF . Whereas traditional epidemiological strategies have separately examined individual contributions of specific comorbidities to HF risk , these approaches may not capture the shared mechanisms and more complex , bidirectional relationships between cardiac and noncardiac comorbidities . In this review , we highlight the cardiac , kidney , liver , and metabolism multiorgan interactions and pathways that complicate HF development and progression and propose research strategies to further understand HF in the context of multiple organ disease . This includes evolving epidemiological approaches such as multiomics and machine learning which may better capture common underlying mechanisms and interorgan crosstalk . We review existing preclinical models of HF and how they have enhanced our understanding of the role of multiorgan disease in the development of HF subtypes . We suggest recommendations as to how clinical practice across multiple specialties should screen for and manage multiorgan involvement in HF . Finally , recognizing the advent of novel combinatorial therapeutic agents that may have multiple indications across the cardiac-kidney-liver metabolism continuum , we review the current clinical trials landscape . We specifically highlight a pressing need for the design of more inclusive trials that examine the contributions of multimorbidity and incorporate multiorgan end points , which we propose may lead to outcomes that are evermore clinically relevant today . FAU - Lee , Chang Jie Mick
Heart failure is the final outcome of most cardiovascular diseases and shares risk factors with other cardiovascular pathologies . Among these , inflammation plays a central role in disease progression and myocardial remodeling . Over the past 2 decades , numerous studies have explored immune-related mechanisms in cardiovascular disease , highlighting the importance of immune cross-talk between the heart and extra-cardiac organs , including bone marrow , spleen , liver , gut , and adipose tissue . This review examines how immune interactions among these organs contribute to heart failure pathogenesis , with a focus on clonal hematopoiesis , an age-related alteration of hematopoietic stem cells that fosters pathological bone marrow-heart communication . Additionally , we explore recent advances in the understanding of clonal hematopoiesis and its role in heart failure , emphasizing its implications for prognosis and potential therapeutic interventions . By integrating insights from immunology , metabolism , and aging , we provide a comprehensive perspective on the immunologic determinants of heart failure , paving the way for precision medicine approaches aimed at mitigating cardiovascular risk . FAU - Kallikourdis , Marinos
Under in vivo conditions , CA1 pyramidal cells from the hippocampus display transitions from single spikes to bursts . It is believed that subthreshold hyperpolarization and depolarization , also known as down and up-states , play a pivotal role in these transitions . Nevertheless , a central impediment to correlating suprathreshold ( spiking ) and subthreshold activity has been the technical difficulties of this type of recordings , even with widely used calcium imaging or multielectrode recordings . Recent work using voltage imaging with genetically encoded voltage indicators has been able to correlate spiking patterns with subthreshold activity in a variety of CA1 neurons , and recent computational models have been able to capture these transitions . In this work , we used a computational model of a CA1 pyramidal cell to investigate the role of intrinsic conductances and oscillatory patterns in generating down and up-states and their modulation in the transition from single spiking to bursting . Specifically , the emergence of distinct spiking resonances between these two spiking modes that share the same voltage traces in the presence of theta or gamma oscillatory inputs , a phenomenon we call interleaved single and bursting spiking resonance . We noticed that these resonances do not necessarily overlap in frequency or amplitude , underscoring their relevance for providing flexibility to neural processing . We studied the conductance values of three current types that are thought to be critical for the bursting behavior : persistent sodium current ( INaP ) and its conductance GNaP , delayed rectifier potassium ( IKDR ) and its conductance GKDR , and hyperpolarization-activated current ( Ih ) and its conductance Gh . We conclude that the intricate interplay of ionic currents significantly influences the neuronal firing patterns , transitioning from single to burst firing during sustained depolarization . Specifically , the intermediate levels of GNaP and GKDR facilitate spiking resonance at gamma frequency inputs . The resonance characteristics vary between single and burst firing modes , each displaying distinct amplitudes and resonant frequencies . Furthermore , low GNaP and high GKDR values lock bursting to theta frequencies , while high GNaP and low GKDR values lock single spiking to gamma frequencies . Lastly , the duration of quiet intervals plays a crucial role in determining the likelihood of transitioning to either bursting or single spiking modes . We confirmed that the same features were present in previously recorded in vivo voltage-imaging data . Understanding these dynamics provides valuable insights into the fundamental mechanisms underlying neuronal excitability under in vivo conditions .
OBJECTIVE : Homozygous knockout of scavenger receptor class B type I ( SR-B1 ) in mice with atherogenic mutations ( such as knockout of the apolipoprotein E or low density lipoprotein receptor genes ) results in spontaneous or diet-induced coronary heart disease characterized by atherosclerosis development in the aortic sinus and coronary arteries , platelet accumulation in coronary artery plaques , myocardial fibrosis , and early death . However , the extent of coronary artery atherothrombosis and myocardial fibrosis in mice lacking SR-B1 alone ( homozygous SR-B1 knockout mice ) has not been examined . Although age is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease , few studies directly examine the effects of age on susceptibility to atherosclerosis or coronary artery atherothrombosis and myocardial fibrosis in mice . Therefore , we set out to examine the effects of age on diet-induced atherosclerosis in female homozygous SR-B1 knockout mice . APPROACH AND RESULTS : SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited little-to-no aortic sinus or coronary artery atherosclerosis at 52 weeks of age , when fed a normal diet . However when fed a high-fat , high-cholesterol , cholate-containing ( HFCC ) diet for 12 weeks from either 14 weeks of age ( 26-week-old at analysis ) or 40 weeks of age ( 52-week-old at analysis ) , they developed similar degrees of atherosclerosis in their aortic sinuses . Interestingly , the older aged SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited increased coronary artery atherosclerosis , increased vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 levels and platelet accumulation in coronary arteries , and increased myocardial fibrosis and plasma levels of cardiac troponin I compared to the younger aged mice . Older-aged HFCC diet-fed SR-B1 knockout mice also exhibited reduced survival to humane endpoint . Moreover , older-aged HFCC diet-fed SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited a greater inflammatory state with increased levels of circulating interleukin-6 , tumour necrosis factor alpha , and neutrophils , despite plasma lipid levels being unchanged . Consistent with the increased circulating neutrophils , older-aged HFCC diet-fed SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited increased accumulation of the neutrophil marker myeloperoxidase and increased neutrophil extracellular traps in atherosclerotic plaques in the aortic sinus and increased abundance of atherosclerotic coronary arteries containing neutrophil extracellular traps . CONCLUSIONS : HFCC diet-fed homozygous SR-B1 knockout mice develop occlusive coronary artery atherothrombosis and myocardial fibrosis in an age-dependent manner , and exhibit an increased inflammatory state with older age . Therefore , aged SR-B1 knockout mice may prove to be an attractive mouse model to analyze age-dependent mechanisms associated with coronary artery disease development , which may facilitate the discovery of more effective therapeutics to treat cardiovascular disease .
Following fertilization , the preimplantation embryo undergoes successive rounds of cell division and must accurately propagate the genetic material to ensure successful development . However , early mammalian embryos lack efficient spindle assembly mechanisms , and it remains unclear how error-free chromosome segregation is achieved . In this work , we imaged early mouse embryos and identified a network of nuclear actin cables that organize prophase chromosomes at the nuclear periphery . Following nuclear envelope breakdown , the network contracts and gathers chromosomes toward the cell center . Network contraction was driven by filament disassembly in a myosin II-independent manner . Additionally , we identified a network of branched actin filaments that attenuates metaphase spindle elongation . We also visualized nuclear actin in human embryos , suggesting a conserved role for actin in ensuring mitotic fidelity during early mammalian development . FAU - Hernandez , Blake
Null space theory predicts that neurons generate spikes not only to produce behavior but also to prevent the undesirable effect of other neurons on behavior . In this work , we show that this competitive cancellation is essential for understanding computation in the cerebellum . In marmosets , we identified a vector for each Purkinje cell ( P cell ) along which its spikes displaced the eyes . Two spikes in two different P cells produced superposition of their vectors . In the resulting population activity , the spikes were canceled if their contributions were perpendicular to the intended movement . Mossy fibers provided a copy of the motor commands and the goal of the movement . Molecular layer interneurons transformed these inputs so that the P cell population predicted when the movement had reached the goal and should be stopped . FAU - Fakharian , Mohammad Amin
Transforming laboratory-scale perovskite solar cells to large-scale production will require uniform crystallization of the perovskite film . We designed a method to aid the crystallization process by generating well-defined three-dimensional ( 3D ) laminar airflow over square meter-sized perovskite films using a customized 3D-printed structure . The resultant perovskite solar modules with areas of 7906 square meters had a certified power conversion efficiency of 0% and achieved compliance with three sets of solar cell standards . Our metrics for a 1-year operational study from a 5-megawatt peak power perovskite solar farm indicate a 29% higher energy yield per kilowatt of installed capacity compared with that of silicon modules at the same facility that primarily resulted from their temperature-dependent operational characteristics . FAU - Yan , Buyi
Microtubules get help from actin filaments during mitosis . FAU - Bement , William
There can be surprising differences between what neurons do and what neurons cause . FAU - Churchland , Mark M
Antagonistic activities of the 53BP1 axis and the tumor suppressor BRCA1-BARD1 determine whether DNA double-strand breaks ( DSBs ) are repaired by end joining or homologous recombination . We show that the CTC1-STN1-TEN1 ( CST ) complex , a central 53BP1 axis component , suppresses DNA end resection by EXO1 and the BLM-DNA2 helicase-nuclease complex but acts by distinct mechanisms in restricting these entities . Whereas BRCA1-BARD1 alleviates the CST-imposed EXO1 blockade , it has little effect on BLM-DNA2 restriction . CST mutants impaired for DNA binding or BLM-EXO1 interaction exhibit a hyper-resection phenotype and render BRCA1-deficient cells resistant to poly ( ADP-ribose ) polymerase ( PARP ) inhibitors . Our findings mechanistically define the crucial role of CST in DNA DSB repair pathway choice and have implications for understanding cancer therapy resistance stemming from dysfunction of the 53BP1 axis . FAU - Rogers , Cody M
Metallothioneins ( MTs ) are low molecular weight cysteine rich proteins involved in detoxification of heavy metals . They are synthesized in response to metal exposure and can bind to various metals , thus reducing their toxicity and providing protection against oxidative stress . MTs are considered to be efficient bioremediators of heavy metal contaminated industrial wastewater . The present study was aimed at further enhancing the metal binding capacity of a cadmium metallothionein protein PMCd1 , reported some time back from this laboratory in protozoan ciliate Paramecium , to equip them with more efficient system to deal with metal contaminated water bodies . Three additional cysteine residues were introduced at three different places of the protein by site directed mutagenesis , viz . S20C , R180C and Y185C . The wild type and each mutant of PMCd1 were expressed in E . coli BL21 cells . Metal uptake ability of each transformant was determined in the presence of 1 and 2mM Cd2+ in the medium . The three mutants showed enhanced metal uptake compared to the wild PMCd1 which underscored the role of additional cysteines in enhanced metal binding ability . Amongst the mutants , the genetically modified organism with S20C mutation exhibited 1 fold more metal uptake compared to the control ciliate . This mutant has great potential to clean the cadmium- contaminated water .
There is a notable scarcity of information concerning particulate matter in urine . This study presents an initial investigation that uses flow cytometry to determine the particulate content in the urine of healthy individuals , focusing on particles within a diameter range of 33-70 microm . Imaging flow cytometry was combined with fluorescent tagging and a birefringence technique to characterize particulate matter in terms of concentration , type , and size . This method enabled the identification and quantification of total particles within a sample , as well as the characterization of specific subtypes , including lipid-associated particles , protein aggregates , lipid-protein complexes , particles containing calcium ( such as calcium oxalate crystals ) , DNA-containing particles ( including cells and bacteria ) , and crystalline structures . Benchmark ranges for particulate matter present in urine were categorized according to subgroups that account for the influence of age , gender , and time of sampling , yielding valuable insights into the total number of particles traversing the human urinary tract daily . Significantly , the analysis here suggests that approximately 320 x 106 particles may pass through the urinary tract each day . Examination of a range of potential correlations among samples indicated that the total particle concentrations remained statistically similar . More specifically , there were no significant concentration differences in urine samples relative to sampling time , gender , or age . These findings provide valuable insights into the variability of urinary particulate matter and lay the groundwork for future , larger-scale studies . Ultimately , this research contributes to understanding urinary tract function and may potentially lead to identifying novel markers for various health conditions .
BACKGROUND : Cervical cancer remains a primary reason for cancer malignancy among women worldwide , primarily due to human papillomavirus ( HPV ) strains HPV16 and HPV Despite having access to vaccines , there are few treatment options for advanced or recurring cases . This research investigates the possibility of using Newcastle disease virus ( NDV ) along with Everolimus ( EVE ) and Beclin-1 ( BEC ) to improve immune reactions and decrease tumor development in an experimental model of HPV-related cervical cancer . METHODS : A mouse model for cervical cancer was created by utilizing HPV16 E6/E7-expressing TC-1 cells in C57BL/6 mice . The mice underwent treatment with NDV , EVE , BEC , or various combinations of these therapies . Tumor progression was monitored , evaluated immune responses by measuring cytokine levels ( including IL-4 , IFN-gamma , and IL-12 ) , and investigated the presence of CD8 + T cells within the tumors . Additionally , survival rates were monitored throughout the study . RESULTS : The synergy of NDV , EVE , and BEC led to a remarkable decrease in tumor growth , achieving reductions of as much as 70% when compared to monotherapies . Additionally , our combination therapy elicited strong immune reactions , evidenced by increased concentrations of IL-4 , IFN-gamma , and IL-12 , along with enhanced infiltration of CD8 + T cells into the tumors . Mice that were subjected to this Triple therapy exhibited better survival rates than those in other treatment categories . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings highlight the potential to improve outcomes in cervical cancer associated with HPV through a multi-faceted approach incorporating NDV , Everolimus , and Beclin- This therapeutic strategy not only hinders tumor growth but also strengthens the immune system ' s ability to fight against cancer . These results prompt further exploration of this combination in clinical trials , with the goal of offering new treatment avenues for patients who have limited choices .
Trained immunity improves disease resistance by strengthening our first line of defense , the innate immune system . Innate immune cells , predominantly macrophages , are epigenetically and metabolically rewired by beta-glucan , a fungal cell wall component , to induce trained immunity . These trained macrophages exhibit increased co-stimulatory marker expression and altered cytokine production . Signaling changes from antigen-presenting cells , including macrophages , polarize T-cell responses . Recent work has shown that trained immunity can generally enhance protection against infection , and some work has shown increased protection with specific vaccines . It has been hypothesized that the trained cells themselves potentially modulate adaptive immunity in the context of vaccines . However , the mechanistic link between trained immunity and subsequent vaccinations to enhance antibody levels has not yet been identified . We report that trained immunity induced by a single dose of beta-glucan increased antigen presentation in bone-marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDMs ) and CD4+ T cell proliferation in-vitro . Mice trained with a single dose of beta-glucan a week before vaccination elicited higher antigen-specific antibody levels than untrained mice . Further experiments validate that macrophages mediate this increase . This effect persisted even after vaccinations with 100 times less antigen in trained mice . We report beta-glucan training as a novel prophylactic method to enhance the effect of subsequent vaccines .
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a gamma herpesvirus that infects up to 95% of the human population by adulthood , typically remaining latent in the host memory B cell pool . In immunocompromised individuals , EBV can drive the transformation and rapid proliferation of infected B cells , ultimately resulting in neoplasia . The same transformation process can be induced in vitro , with EBV-infected peripheral blood B cells forming immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines ( LCLs ) within weeks . In this study , we found that the fatty acid desaturases stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 ( SCD1 ) and fatty acid desaturase 2 ( FADS2 ) are upregulated by EBV and crucial for EBV-induced B cell proliferation . We show that pharmacological and genetic inhibition of both SCD1 and FADS2 results in a significantly greater reduction in proliferation and cell cycle arrest , compared to perturbing either enzyme individually . Additionally , we found that inhibiting either SCD1 or FADS2 alone hypersensitizes LCLs to palmitate-induced apoptosis . Further free fatty acid profiling and metabolic analysis of dual SCD1/FADS2-inhibited LCLs revealed an increase in free unsaturated fatty acids , a reduction of oxidative phosphorylation , and a reduction of glycolysis , thereby linking the activity of SCD1 and FADS2 to overall growth-promoting metabolism . Lastly , we show that SCD1 and FADS2 are important in the growth of clinically derived EBV+ immunoblastic lymphoma cells . Collectively , these data demonstrate a previously uncharacterized role of lipid desaturation in EBV+ transformed B cell proliferation , revealing a metabolic pathway that can be targeted in future anti-lymphoma therapies .
Anti-beta2 glycoprotein I ( Anti-beta2GPI ) antibodies are a heterogeneous group of antiphospholipid antibodies targeting beta2 glycoprotein I ( beta2GPI ) . High titer of anti-beta2GPI antibodies is a risk factor for thrombosis in antiphospholipid syndrome ( APS ) . Although it has been shown that anti-beta2GPI antibodies can induce neutrophil activation involved in thrombosis , the underlying mechanism remains unclear . In this study , we analyzed the clinical data of thrombotic patients who were positive or negative for anti-beta2GPI antibodies , as well as healthy individuals . The results showed that the percentage and absolute count of neutrophils , serum levels of human neutrophil peptides ( HNPs ) , and HNP mRNA levels were significantly higher in the anti-beta2GPI-positive patient group compared to the healthy control group . Notably , when compared to the anti-beta2GPI-negative patient group with similar neutrophil percentages and counts , the serum HNPs levels were also significantly elevated in the anti-beta2GPI-positive patient group . In vitro , we further showed that anti-beta2GPI and beta2GP complex ( anti-beta2GPI/ beta2GP complex ) induced a concentration - and time-dependent increase in HNPs , which was mediated through P2Y2 receptors on the surface of neutrophils . Meanwhile , we found that intracellular signaling pathways P38MAPK ( P38 mitogen-activated protein kinase ) and ERK ( extracellular signal-regulated kinase ) were also involved in the generation of HNPs . We also found that high levels of human neutrophil peptide-1 ( HNP-1 ) could induce the production of procoagulant factors von Willebrand factor ( vWF ) and P-selectin in endothelial cells through the nuclear factor-kappaB ( NF-kappaB ) signaling pathway , which increased the risk of thrombosis .
Gram-negative bacterial cell envelope consists of a surface-exposed lipid bilayer ( outer membrane or OM ) that serves as a permeability barrier to maintain the cellular integrity . Beneath the OM is the periplasmic space that harbours peptidoglycan ( PG ) , a highly cross-linked mesh-like glycan polymer closely encasing the inner membrane ( IM ) . During growth of a bacterium balanced synthesis of the envelope components is required to maintain the cellular integrity , of which little is known . In this study , we identify sanA , an ORF of unknown function encoding a predicted IM-anchored protein as a factor contributing to balanced synthesis of PG in E . coli . Absence of SanA increased the rate of nascent PG strand incorporation , and restored growth and viability to several mutants defective in either cell division or cell elongation . Detailed mutant analysis of sanA showed that it is defective in the envelope barrier properties . Interestingly , overexpression of the periplasmic endopeptidases that cleave the cross-links of the PG mesh was able to alleviate the phenotypes of sanA mutant implying the envelope defects are due to alterations in the PG sacculus . Additionally , a SanA variant ( SSDsbA-SanA ) targeted to the periplasm , complemented the SanA- phenotypes suggesting it functions in the periplasmic phase of the PG synthesis . Further , we find that SanA functions independently of its paralog , ElyC , known to regulate the synthesis of enterobacterial common antigen ( ECA ) , a surface polysaccharide found in the cell envelopes of most enteric bacteria . Overall , our results suggest a role for SanA in the maintenance of optimal PG synthesis , providing evidence for the existence of an additional layer of regulation in Gram-negative cell envelope biogenesis .
Fungi can cause devastating invasive infections , typically in immunocompromised patients . Treatment is complicated both by the evolutionary similarity between humans and fungi and by the frequent emergence of drug resistance . Studies in fungal pathogens have long been slowed by a lack of high-throughput tools and community resources that are common in model organisms . Here we demonstrate a high-throughput transposon mutagenesis and sequencing ( TN-seq ) system in Cryptococcus neoformans that enables genome-wide determination of gene essentiality . We employed a random forest machine learning approach to classify the C . neoformans genome as essential or nonessential , predicting 1 , 465 essential genes , including 302 that lack human orthologs . These genes are ideal targets for new antifungal drug development . TN-seq also enables genome-wide measurement of the fitness contribution of genes to phenotypes of interest . As proof of principle , we demonstrate the genome-wide contribution of genes to growth in fluconazole , a clinically used antifungal . We show a novel role for the well-studied RIM101 pathway in fluconazole susceptibility . We also show that insertions of transposons into the 5 ' upstream region can drive sensitization of essential genes , enabling screenlike assays of both essential and nonessential components of the genome . Using this approach , we demonstrate a role for mitochondrial function in fluconazole sensitivity , such that tuning down many essential mitochondrial genes via 5 ' insertions can drive resistance to fluconazole . Our assay system will be valuable in future studies of C . neoformans , particularly in examining the consequences of genotypic diversity .
Caliciviruses are significant agricultural and human pathogens that are poorly understood due to the dearth of molecular tools , including reporter systems . We report the development of a robust luciferase-based reporter system for a model calicivirus , murine norovirus ( MNoV ) . Genetic insertion of a HiBiT tag , an 11 amino acid fragment of nanolucifersase , at the junction of the nonstructural proteins NS4 and NS5 yields infectious virus . The resultant MNoV-HiBiT produces a robust signal that is detected early in infection and occurs only in cells susceptible to MNoV infection . The MNoV-HiBiT reporter is effective at monitoring acute infection in STAT1 deficient mice . Furthermore , we used this tool to characterize two unappreciated host directed anti-MNoV compounds . The use of the MNoV-HiBiT virus enables new mechanistic studies by a rapid and quantitative means of measuring MNoV replication . The HiBiT insertion strategy we describe may be useful for the generation of other calicivirus reporters .
BACKGROUND : Liver fibrosis ( LF ) results from various causes , which require finding conserved mechanisms to help treat related diseases . Although adipose-derived stem cells ( ADSCs ) transplantation can alleviate hepatic fibrosis , their mechanism remains unclear . Accordingly , we explored the efficacy and mechanisms behind ADSCs transplantation in two LF models . METHODOLOGY : The carbon tetrachloride ( CCl4 ) -induced liver injury and Echinococcus multilocularis ( E . multilocularis ) infection models were established , and ADSCs were transplanted . Mouse liver samples were harvested and analyzed histologically . Expression levels of fibrosis and senescence-related proteins were analyzed by immunohistochemistry . Hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) activation and cell senescence protein expression were evaluated via western blotting . Co-localization expression was determined by immunofluorescence . To assess the cellular senescence degree , we utilized senescence-associated beta-galactosidase ( SA-beta-Gal ) staining . RESULT : In the CCl4-induced LF mouse model , the liver surface exhibited a rough texture . The hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E ) staining revealed hepatic parenchymal cell destruction accompanied by pseudolobule formation and fibrosis in the portal area . In the E . multilocularis infection model , multiple white foci were on the liver surface . The H&E staining revealed massive inflammatory cell infiltration around the foci with severe fibrosis , and Sirius Red confirmed collagen deposition ; both had elevated HSCs activation ( alpha-SMA expression ) . After ADSCs transplantation , the collagen deposition and HSCs activation significantly diminished , while the cellular senescence levels increased . Immunofluorescence co-localization of p21 and a-SMA showed that transplantation of ADSCs promoted senescence of activated HSCs ( aHSCs ) . In vitro co-culture had similar results , accompanied by expression changes and TGF-beta/Smad signaling inhibition . CONCLUSION : Our findings indicate that ADSCs transplantation can mitigate fibrosis by inducing the senescence of aHSCs and reducing collagen production .
In this study , we investigated the cytogenetic effects of exposure to chronic radioactive contamination on the populations of Rosa spinosissima L . and Leymus angustus ( Trin . ) Pilg . growing in fields affected by radioactive water streams from the ' Degelen ' test location of the Semipalatinsk test site . The results revealed that the radiation dose absorbed by these plants varied from 108 to 1 , 150 microGy/day , depending on the sampling points of the plants . The main exposure dose received by the plants was from 90Sr and 137Cs . In both plant species , chromosomal aberrations were the main contributors to the range of cytogenetic effects ( double bridges and double fragments ) . The proportions of chromosomal aberrations were the highest among all cytogenetic effects at 42 and 54% in R . spinosissima and L . angustus , respectively . A linear relationship was established between the increase in the frequency of aberrant cells and the increase in the rate of radiation dose absorption in R . spinosissima for the entire range of the absorbed doses in question up to 1 , 129 microGy/day and in L . angustus for the range of absorbed doses from 152-583 microGy/day .
OBJECTIVE : Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide , with high mortality rates partially due to limited therapeutic options and drug resistance . Arsenic trioxide ( ATO ) , a compound clinically proven for acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) , has garnered attention for its emerging efficacy in solid tumors , including HCC . However , the molecular mechanisms driving ATO ' s antitumor activity in HCC remain incompletely understood . In this study , we aimed to elucidate the ferroptosis-dependent effects of ATO on HCC and and propose a potential therapeutic strategy . METHODS : The response of HCC cells to ATO was evaluated using cell viability , wound healing , colony formation , Transwell migration assays , and cell cycle analysis . ATO-induced ferroptosis was assessed by measuring lipid peroxidation ( via C11-BODIPY staining ) , intracellular iron levels , and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) production . Western blotting was performed to quantify protein levels of NRF2 , HO-1 , SLC7A11 , and GPX4 ; immunofluorescence staining was employed to determine NRF2 subcellular localization . RESULTS : ATO exhibited significant cytotoxicity and inhibited the progression of HCC cells . Treatment with ATO resulted in a notable increase in lipid ROS and MDA levels , which were subsequently reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors Fer-1 and DFO . Mechanistically , ATO induced ferroptosis by inhibiting GPX Furthermore , NRF2 and its downstream targets , HO-1 and SLC7A11 , were upregulated during ferroptosis . NRF2 knockdown enhanced lipid peroxidation and ATO-induced cell death . CONCLUSIONS : ATO significantly promoted ferroptosis in HCC cells , and NRF2 knockdown enhanced the cytotoxic effects of ATO .
Maize is an important food crop worldwide . The length , width , and area of leaves are crucial traits of plant architecture and further influencing plant density , photosynthesis , and crop yield . To dissect the genetic architecture of leaf length , leaf width , and leaf area , a multi-parents doubled haploid ( DH ) population was used for genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) and genomic selection ( GS ) . The length , width , and area of the first leaf above the uppermost ear , the uppermost ear leaf , and the first leaf below the uppermost ear were evaluated in multi-environment trials . Using BLINK and FarmCPU for GWAS , 19 significant single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) on chromosomes 1 , 2 , 5 , 6 , 8 , 9 , and 10 were associated with leaf length , 49 SNPs distributed over all 10 chromosomes were associated with leaf width , and 37 SNPs distributed on all 10 chromosomes except for chromosome 3 were associated with leaf area . The phenotypic variation explained ( PVE ) by each QTL ranged from 05% to 46% . Fourteen pleiotropic SNPs were detected by at least two leaf-related traits . A total of 57 candidate genes were identified for leaf-related traits , of which 44 were annotated with known functions . Candidate genes Zm00001d032866 , Zm00001D022209 , and Zm00001d001980 are involved in leaf senescence . Zm00001d026130 , Zm00001d002429 , Zm00001d023225 , and Zm00001d046767 play important roles in leaf development . GS analysis showed that when 60% of the total genotypes was used as the training population and 3000 SNPs were used for prediction , moderate prediction accuracy was obtained for leaf length , leaf width , and leaf area . The prediction accuracy would be improved by using top significantly associated SNPs for GS . The current study provides a better understanding of the genetic basis of leaf length , leaf width , and leaf area , and valuable information for improving plant architecture by implementing GS .
The 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2 , 6-biphosphatase ( PFKFB ) family of proteins are bifunctional enzymes that are of clinical relevance because of their roles in regulating glycolysis in insulin sensitive tissues and cancer . Here , we sought to express recombinant PFKFB2 and develop a robust protocol to measure its kinase activity . These studies resulted in the unexpected finding that bacterially expressed PFKFB2 is phosphorylated in situ on Ser483 but is not a result of autophosphorylation . Recombinant PFKFB2 was used to develop an enzymatic assay to test a library of molecules selected by the Atomwise AtomNet ( R ) AI platform . This resulted in the identification of a new inhibitor , B2 , that inhibits PFKFB2 ( IC50 29 muM ) and PFKFB3 ( IC50 89 muM ) . A-498 cells , which express both PFKFB2 and PFKFB3 , were treated with B Seahorse XFe analysis revealed B2 inhibited cellular glycolysis and glycolytic capacity . Targeted LC/MS analysis showed B2 decreased fructose-1 , 6-bisphosphate and downstream glycolytic intermediates but increased fructose-6-phosphate levels , which is consistent with an inhibitory effect on PFK-1 activity . The LC/MS metabolic profile of A-498 cells treated under identical conditions with the known PFKFB3 inhibitor , PFK158 , was distinct from that induced by B These results thus demonstrate the identification and validation of a new PFKFB kinase inhibitor .
Delicate control over electron distribution in hybrid catalysts is crucial for improving hydrogen evolution catalysis , which remains an aspirational target in advancing efficient hydrogen production . Herein , we optimize the local electronic structures and balance the reaction steps by incorporating Ru clusters into nitrogen-doped molybdenum carbide ( denoted as Ru@NMoC ) , addressing performance limitations in alkaline seawater . The Ru@NMoC catalyst demonstrates ultra-low overpotentials of 8 , 17 , and 20 mV at 10 mA cm ( - ) in 1 M KOH , 1 M KOH + 5 M NaCl , and 1 M KOH seawater , respectively , significantly outperforming conventional HER catalysts . Operando spectroscopic techniques reveal strong ability for interface water dissociation and stable local charge structure in Ru@NMoC . Theoretical simulations demonstrate that N-doping of Ru clusters self-optimizes their electronic states and lowering the energy barrier for water dissociation . Self-powered H2 production system can be achieved using Zn-HO batteries to drive anion exchange membrane water electrolysis cell , demoinstrating its practicability .
Lymphoma , a diverse group of neoplasms , has been frequently refined in classification , with over 100 types identified by the World Health Organization in Lymphoma represents 5% of new malignancies in the United States , the risk factors of which include genetic predisposition , infections , and inflammatory conditions . Extranodal lymphoma , constituting 25%-40% of cases , uncommonly involves the musculoskeletal system , with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma being the primary type . Bone lymphoma , classified as primary , primary multifocal , or secondary , predominantly affects the appendicular skeleton . Radiography and CT aid osseous evaluation and may reveal a lytic , sclerotic , mixed lytic and sclerotic , or near-normal appearance . MRI excels in soft-tissue and bone marrow assessment , and PET/CT plays a pivotal role in staging . Soft-tissue lymphoma , which involves various compartments , is best characterized with MRI , whereas US may be the modality first used for evaluation . Staging involves fluorodeoxyglucose ( FDG ) PET/CT , and treatment response is assessed through various imaging modalities . Skin involvement , commonly associated with primary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma , is described through stages , with FDG PET aiding diagnosis . Transspatial lymphoma involves multiple contiguous spaces and is known in the head and neck but not well documented in the musculoskeletal system . The authors provide comprehensive insight into musculoskeletal lymphoma by highlighting imaging findings crucial for diagnosis , classification , staging , and assessment of treatment response . ( ( c ) ) RSNA , FAU - Sleeth , Connor D
Image-guided percutaneous lung ablation has become increasingly common in the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) and oligometastatic disease in recent years . Among the available techniques are well-described heat-based techniques , such as lung radiofrequency or microwave ablation , and lung cryoablation ( LCA ) , based on the use of extreme cold to cause tissue necrosis . Although it is the least used of the three ablative techniques available for lung ablation , LCA has inherent characteristics that render it the preferred technique in certain situations . Due to the nature of cryoablation , the collagen extracellular matrix of the tissue adjacent to the ablation site is preserved during the intervention . Additionally , cryoablation may allow more precise imaging monitoring of the ablation zone compared with heat-based techniques . These intrinsic advantages potentially establish LCA as the preferred ablative technique for treating lung tumors located near sensitive vital structures , such as the heart , pulmonary hilum , pulmonary arteries , aorta , main bronchi , and pleura . The authors discuss the basic principles of LCA ; the indications and contraindications of the technique ; and the technical details of the treatment , including the expected findings and periprocedural complications . A standardized scheme for post-cryoablation imaging follow-up is proposed , detailing the expected findings of complete response and signs of tumor persistence and recurrence and specifying the differences seen with heat-based ablative techniques . ( ( c ) ) RSNA , 2025 Supplemental material is available for this article . See the invited commentary by Parvinian and Eiken in this issue . FAU - Castillo-Fortuno , Angel
Hyperbaric oxygen ( HBO ) therapy has been used to treat various pathological conditions , including carbon monoxide poisoning and ischemia-reperfusion injury . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying these therapeutic effects remain unclear . We investigated HBO-induced changes in mitochondrial function and biogenesis in a clonal cardiomyocyte cell line , HL- Cells were exposed to HBO ( 3 atmospheres , 2218 mmHg O , 39 mmHg CO ) in a cell incubation chamber under controlled temperature and humidity conditions . Levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , gene transcription and translation , mitochondrial membrane potential ( DeltaPsim ) , mitochondrial respiration , cellular ATP content , and spontaneous beating foci of HL-1 cells were measured . Exposure ( 2 or 6 h ) to HBO increased the cytosolic and mitochondrial ROS production , followed by upregulation of stress responses , including growth differentiation factor 15 and fibroblast growth factor HBO augmented antioxidant defence signalling through nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 and mitochondrial biogenesis through peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha . HBO exposure also elevated mitochondrial oxygen consumption , DeltaPsim , and ATP production . To assess cardiomyocyte function , live cell imaging was performed , and the findings demonstrated an increase in the number of beating clusters in HL-1 cells following exposure to HBO . Notably , in HL-1 cells pre-treated with sublethal doses of mitochondrial electron transport chain inhibitors , further depolarisation of DeltaPsim was observed after HBO exposure , implying exacerbation of mitochondrial dysfunction . Collectively , HBO-induced oxidative stress enhances mitochondrial biogenesis and function , possibly through a stress-mediated response . However , in the presence of defective mitochondrial function , cells may not be able to overcome the stress caused by HBO . FAU - Young , Ha-Yeong
The arrangement of ligands on a nanomaterial scaffold is a powerful approach to enhance targeted cellular delivery . However , nanomaterial-mediated delivery often employs imprecise ligand conjugation , limiting the exploration of optimal ligand density and spatial organization . To address these challenges , we developed DNA nanomaterials with precisely spaced folate ligands and rigidified them via a postassembly UV-based thymine cross-linking . These materials exhibit exceptional nuclease stability and maintain structural integrity both under biologically relevant conditions and during internalization into live HeLa cells . We used these nanomaterials as scaffolds for folate patterning and identified optimal modes of folate presentation for cellular uptake . Each step of the uptake process was probed , revealing the synergistic effects of structural stabilization and precise ligand patterning on the uptake mechanism , intracellular retention , and export dynamics . We then used our nanopatterned nanomaterials as delivery vectors for a gene-silencing nucleic acid payload . By integrating optimized ligand presentation and structural immobilization , we successfully achieved targeted gene silencing in folate receptor alpha-expressing cancer cells . This work showcases the effect that DNA nanostructure fidelity and rigidity have on the presentation of ligand moieties . It introduces UV cross-linking as a critical tool for structural stabilization of DNA nanomaterials , enabling applications in therapeutic delivery , diagnostics , and nanoscale cell surface engineering . In addition , this study reveals spatial principles of folate nanopatterning to enhance future targeted delivery systems with precision , stability , and biocompatibility . FAU - Brown , Tyler M
Lung cancer continues to be a primary contributor to cancer-related deaths globally , and multidrug resistance ( MDR ) poses a significant obstacle in its management . Traditional Chinese medicines ( TCMs ) , recognized for their comprehensive therapeutic strategies and low incidence of adverse effects , have garnered attention due to their capacity to mitigate MDR in cancer cells . Nevertheless , deciphering the precise mechanisms through which TCMs reverse MDR in lung cancer presents a substantial scientific challenge . The objective of this review is to examine prevalent manifestations of MDR in lung cancer and underscore recent advancements in understanding how TCMs might surmount this form of resistance . The review begins by investigating the unique characteristics of TCMs and their pivotal function in reversing MDR in lung cancer . Subsequently , it explores various forms of MDR in lung cancer , such as aberrant expression of cell membrane transport proteins , dysregulation of intracellular enzyme systems , disrupted apoptosis , and heightened cellular repair mechanisms , emphasizing their detrimental impact on lung cancer treatment outcomes . Central to this review is a thorough analysis of the intricate mechanisms by which TCMs counteract MDR , along with an assessment of their efficacy in lung cancer therapy . Based on this analysis , the review offers insights into potential future research directions for utilizing TCMs to overcome MDR . This review seeks to provide a thorough examination of the role of TCMs in reversing MDR in lung cancer and to stimulate additional research into their clinical applications . FAU - Li , Yuying
Repair of the tendon-bone interface ( TBI ) remains a significant clinical challenge due to its complex biomechanical environment and hierarchical structure . Conventional surgical approaches often fail to fully reestablish native tissue architecture and function . In recent years , tissue engineering strategies have increasingly emphasized the application of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) and platelet-derived products to promote regeneration . MSCs possess multilineage differentiation potential and immunomodulatory capabilities , making them attractive candidates for TBI repair . Platelets , through their rich secretome , orchestrate essential regenerative processes such as cell recruitment , angiogenesis , and immune modulation . This review explores the molecular crosstalk between MSCs and platelets , critically examines current approaches utilizing platelet-rich plasma ( PRP ) -MSC combinations and platelet-derived exosome therapies and underscores the urgent need for standardization to optimize therapeutic outcomes in PRP-MSC-based regenerative strategies . FAU - Wu , Yajie
AIMS : Heavy metal accumulation in agricultural areas is a global environmental problem that affects microorganisms and plants , with serious implications for human health . This study aimed to investigate the molecular responses of the plant growth-promoting bacterium Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus PAL5 to cobalt stress . METHODS AND RESULTS : We evaluated bacterial growth and cell viability under cobalt stress and performed comparative proteomic and reverse genetics analyses . Cobalt significantly inhibited bacterial growth but did not cause cell death . Proteomic analysis in the presence of 5 mmol l-1 CoCl2 , which caused approximately 50% growth inhibition , revealed the induction of pathways related to iron uptake , carbohydrate metabolism , amino acid metabolism , quality control , and efflux . Knockout mutants for genes involved in these pathways ( tbdR , zwf , pdhB , argH , and czcC ) confirmed the essential role of the CzcC efflux system in cobalt tolerance . CONCLUSIONS : Cobalt stress triggers molecular responses in G . diazotrophicus PAL5 , with efflux systems playing a crucial role in stress tolerance .
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : The purpose of this review article is to : describe the clinical manifestations of esophageal lichen planus ( ELP ) , understand its epidemiological risk factors , elaborate the common endoscopic and histopathologic findings of ELP , summarize current thinking on treatment and surveillance , and understand the long-term sequelae of ELP . RECENT FINDINGS : A combination of clinical , endoscopic , and histopathologic findings are required to make a diagnosis of ELP . While there is no consensus on management of ELP , there is evidence of clinical and endoscopic improvement with the use of topical steroids among other therapies . There is a known risk of malignant transformation of ELP to esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) . SUMMARY : ELP is an idiopathic condition that primarily affects Caucasian females ages 50-70 years . This review of current literature suggests that a combination of clinical , endoscopic , and histologic findings are required to make a diagnosis ; topical steroids with or without esophageal dilation show overall improvement of ELP ; and endoscopic surveillance to monitor for ESCC is recommended .
Circulating T-follicular helper ( cT ( FH ) ) cells have the potential to provide an additional correlate of protection against Plasmodium falciparum ( Pf ) as they are essential to promote B-cell production of long-lasting antibodies . Assessing the specificity of cT ( FH ) subsets to individual malaria antigens is vital to understanding the variation observed in antibody responses and identifying promising malaria vaccine candidates . Using spectral flow cytometry and unbiased clustering analysis , we assessed antigen-specific cT ( FH ) cell recall responses in vitro to malaria vaccine candidates Pf-schizont egress antigen-1 ( PfSEA-1A ) and Pf-glutamic acid-rich protein ( PfGARP ) within a cross-section of children and adults living in a malaria-holoendemic region of western Kenya . In children , a broad array of cT ( FH ) subsets ( defined by cytokine and transcription factor expression ) were reactive to both malaria antigens , PfSEA-1A and PfGARP , while adults had a narrow profile centering on cT ( FH ) 17- and cT ( FH ) 1/17-like subsets following stimulation with PfGARP only . Because T ( FH ) 17 cells are involved in the maintenance of memory antibody responses within the context of parasitic infections , our results suggest that PfGARP might generate longer-lived antibody responses compared to PfSEA-1A . These findings have intriguing implications for evaluating malaria vaccine candidates as they highlight the importance of including cT ( FH ) profiles when assessing interdependent correlates of protective immunity .
Hypertension prevalence is lower in women than men . Enhanced renal sodium ( Na ( + ) ) handling in females has been implicated in sex-differences in hypertension . Epithelial Na ( + ) channel ( ENaC ) is a key contributor to Na+ homeostasis and is regulated by estrogen . Recent evidence suggests G protein-coupled estrogen receptor 1 ( GPER1 ) evokes a female-specific natriuresis that involves endothelin-1 ( ET-1 ) . ET-1 has been shown to downregulate ENaC activity , but whether GPER1 regulates ENaC to modulate natriuresis is unknown . We tested the hypothesis that renal GPER1 functionally interacts with ENaC to promote natriuresis in a sex-specific manner . RNAscope confirmed co-expression of GPER1 and ENaC in rat renal tubules in a sex and region-specific manner . Within the renal medulla , the number of ENaC/GPER1-positive tubules was greater in females than males . Renal medullary inhibition of ENaC or activation of GPER1 evoked comparable natriuresis in female rats . Electrophysiology revealed that pharmacologic GPER1 activation downregulated ENaC activity , whereas genetic deletion of GPER1 from the principal cells of the collecting duct caused ENaC hyperactivity . The hyperactivity of ENaC caused by deletion of GPER1 in the principal cells was greater in female than male mice . RNAscope co-expression of AQP2 and GPER1 confirmed the KO of GPER1 from the PCs in the kidney . Thus , renal GPER1 functionally interacts with ENaC in a sex-specific manner to promote natriuresis . FAU - Nasci , Victoria L
Increased phospholipase C epsilon 1 ( PLCE1 ) gene expression has been observed in patients with Alzheimer disease ( AD ) , but its roles in AD remain unclear . This study aimed to explore the effects of PLCE1 expression in AD models . Rats were divided into 4 groups : sham+AAV-shNC ( negative control ) , sham+AAV-shPLCE1 , Abeta+AAV-shNC , and Abeta + AAV-shPLCE To investigate the effects of PLCE1 expression following beta-amyloid administration , its expression was measured at both the mRNA and protein levels . Cognitive function was assessed using the Morris water maze . Immunofluorescence and Nissl staining of cerebral cortical tissues demonstrated that PLCE1 downregulation alleviated beta-amyloid-induced brain injury . TUNEL , Western blot , and Enzyme-linked Immunosorbent Assay ( ELISA ) assays also showed that PLCE1 downregulation inhibited pyroptosis and inflammatory markers in the rats and in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells . Using MTT , TUNEL , Western blot , and ELISA assays , we found that upregulation of the GTPase RAC1 , which belongs to the RAS superfamily of small GTP-binding proteins , reversed the neuroprotective effect of PLCE1 downregulation . Together , this study suggests that PLCE1 may worsen AD by activating the STAT3 pathway through RAC1 upregulation . Overall , PLCE1 may exacerbate beta-amyloid-induced cognitive impairments and pyroptosis via the RAC1-STAT3 pathway in AD patients .
Following a 5-year enrichment cultivation period , a novel ammonia-oxidising archaeon ( AOA ) , designated strain CL1 ( T ) , was isolated from Yangshan Harbour ( East China Sea ) . Strain CL1 ( T ) demonstrates a maximum ammonia tolerance of up to 10 mM . Its optimal growth conditions include a pH range of 7-8 , a salinity of 2%-3% , and a temperature range of 20 degrees C-25 degrees C . Under these conditions , strain CL1 ( T ) achieved a maximum specific growth rate of 87 d ( -1 ) , with cell yields estimated at 92 x 10 cells mL ( -1 ) muM ammonia ( -1 ) . Genomic sequencing revealed that strain CL1 ( T ) possesses a genome size of 63 megabases with a high completeness of 95% . Phylogenetic analysis based on the 16S rRNA gene and whole-genome data placed strain CL1 ( T ) within the genus Nitrosarchaeum . The average nucleotide identity ( ANI ) between the genome of strain CL1 ( T ) and its closest relative was 01% , confirming that strain CL1 ( T ) represents a novel species within Nitrosarchaeum . Metabolic pathway analysis demonstrated that strain CL1 ( T ) encodes key enzymes for ammonia oxidation , including ammonia monooxygenase ( amoA , amoB , amoC ) and copper oxidase , indicating its capacity for ammonia oxidation . Additionally , strain CL1 ( T ) likely assimilates ammonia through the GS-GOGAT and GDH pathways . Consistent with the observation of extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) in strain CL1 ( T ) via electron microscopy , genome annotation identified core genes associated with EVs function , such as vps4 and FtsZ . The isolation of strain CL1 ( T ) provides a valuable model system for investigating its ammonia metabolism and exploring its ecological interactions with other AOA , ammonia-oxidising bacteria ( AOB ) and nitrite-oxidising bacteria ( NOB ) , thereby contributing to a deeper understanding of nitrogen cycling mechanisms in aquatic environments .
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : This review seeks to describe the current state of virtual surgical planning ( VSP ) for head and neck free flap reconstruction , highlighting recent advancements , future directions , and outstanding limitations . RECENT FINDINGS : Three-dimensional ( 3D ) -printed plates have been shown to confer increased accuracy and lower fracture rate compared to hand-bent plates . Efforts are underway to optimize plate design for load bearing and dental rehabilitation . Preclinical work is investigating bioresorbable plate materials and 3D-bioprinting of composite materials using stem cell and tissue engineering technology . Advances in imaging and artificial intelligence may improve reconstructive planning . Use of robots and augmented reality may increase precision and intraoperative flexibility in the future . Cost of VSP remains a concern , but has shown to be offset by decreased operative time and in-house VSP , and will likely continue to fall as use of VSP increases . While numerous advantages have been shown for VSP , few studies have investigated correlation of VSP to patient-reported outcomes , which is an increasingly important metric . SUMMARY : In addition to increasing accuracy , decreasing operative time , and facilitating complex reconstructions , VSP has the potential to harness advancements in reconstructive materials , imaging , and artificial intelligence to advance free flap reconstruction and improve patient outcomes .
In the early COVID-19 pandemic , the strain on healthcare facilities highlighted the need for reliable biomarkers to predict progression to severe COVID- Neutrophils , the most abundant leukocytes in circulation , are early defenders against pathogens . In a Singaporean adult cohort , early neutrophil mediators were assessed for their suitability as prognostic biomarkers of COVID-19 complications . Plasma levels of myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) , elastase , soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor ( suPAR ) , and soluble suppressor of tumorigenicity 2 ( sST2 ) in 35 nonsevere and 14 severe cases were measured twice , 2 to 7 d apart after hospitalization . Nineteen controls were included . The levels of MPO , elastase , suPAR , and sST2 were significantly higher in patients with severe COVID-19 compared with those with mild and healthy controls . At baseline sampling , MPO and suPAR predicted severe COVID-19 and had AUROCs of 76 and 87 , respectively . MPO and suPAR at cut-off values of 41 ng/mL and 19 ng/mL , respectively showed approximately 71% sensitivity and 81% to 84% specificity to differentiate severe COVID- In contrast , elastase and neutrophil counts were less predictive of severe disease . In adult COVID-19 , MPO and suPAR may be reliable prognostic biomarkers of severe disease during acute COVID- Further validation of these markers in a larger cohort and in other infectious diseases is warranted .
Here , we present a protocol to generate key pancreatic cell types in vitro using human pluripotent stem cell ( hPSC ) -based Matrigel-overlay organoid differentiation . These include multipotent and bipotent progenitors , endocrine progenitors , and hormone-producing endocrine cells . We describe steps for culturing hPSCs as a 2D monolayer , applying a Matrigel overlay to create a 3D epithelial niche , and guiding stepwise differentiation . This system supports live-cell imaging and real-time tracking of morphogenesis and fate decisions , providing a platform for studying organ development and disease . For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol , please refer to Ulf et al . .
Dorsal root ganglion ( DRG ) neurons innervate the periphery of the body to transmit somatosensory information , including touch , pain , and temperature . Here , we present a protocol for isolating rat DRG neurons using an immunopanning technique . We describe steps for dissecting DRGs from embryonic day ( E ) 15 rat embryos , triturating ganglionic cells , and purifying DRG neurons . We also detail procedures for mRNA or protein quantification using RNAscope and immunofluorescence . This protocol has potential applications for studying DRG neurons during development and disease . For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol , please refer to Kantarci et al . .
Brain endothelial cells ( ECs ) line blood vessel walls and form the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) , facilitating interactions between the brain and the periphery . Here , we present a protocol for isolating purified ECs from adult mouse brains using fluorescence-activated cell sorting ( FACS ) for downstream analyses , such as RNA sequencing . We describe the steps for brain dissection , enzymatic tissue digestion , trituration , myelin removal , and FACS . Furthermore , we detail adaptations of this protocol for isolating ECs from brain subregions , such as the hippocampus . For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol , please refer to Munji et al . and Pulido et al . .
Pseudouridine synthases ( PUSs ) catalyze the isomerization of uridine ( U ) -to-pseudouridine ( Psi ) and have emerging roles in development and disease . How PUSs adapt gene expression under stress remains mostly unexplored . We identify an unconventional role for the Psi " writer " PUS10 impacting intracellular innate immunity . Using Pus10 knockout mice , we uncover cell-intrinsic upregulation of interferon ( IFN ) signaling , conferring resistance to inflammation in vivo . Pus10 loss alters tRNA-derived small RNAs ( tdRs ) abundance , perturbing translation and endogenous retroelements expression . These alterations promote proinflammatory RNA-DNA hybrids accumulation , potentially activating cyclic GMP-AMP synthase ( cGAS ) -stimulator of interferon gene ( STING ) . Supplementation with selected tdR pools partly rescues these effects through interactions with RNA processing factors that modulate immune responses , revealing a regulatory circuit that counteracts cell-intrinsic inflammation . By extension , we define a PUS10-specific molecular fingerprint linking its dysregulation to human autoimmune disorders , including inflammatory bowel diseases . Collectively , these findings establish PUS10 as a viral mimicry modulator , with broad implications for innate immune homeostasis and autoimmunity .
Mitochondria are key to cellular energetics , metabolism , and signaling . Their dysfunction is linked to devastating diseases , including mitochondrial disorders , diabetes , neurodegenerative diseases , cardiac disorders , and cancer . Here , we present a knockout mouse model lacking the complex IV assembly factor SMIM20/MITRAC SMIM20 ( -/- ) mice display cardiac pathology with reduced heart weight and cardiac output . Heart mitochondria present with reduced levels of complex IV associated with increased complex I activity , have altered fatty acid oxidation , and display elevated levels of ROS production . Interestingly , mutant mouse ventricular myocytes show unphysiological Ca ( 2+ ) handling , which can be attributed to the increase in mitochondrial ROS production . Our study presents an example of a tissue-specific phenotype in the context of OXPHOS dysfunction . Moreover , our data suggest a link between complex IV dysfunction and Ca ( 2+ ) handling at the endoplasmic reticulum through ROS signaling .
Extraembryonic endoderm stem cells ( XENs ) resemble the primitive endoderm of blastocyst and provide valuable alternatives for understanding hypoblast development and building stem cell-based embryo models . Here , we report that a chemical cocktail ( FGF4 , BMP4 , IL-6 , XAV939 , and A83-01 ) enables the de novo derivation and long-term culture of bovine XENs ( bXENs ) from blastocysts . Transcriptomic and epigenomic analyses confirm the identity of bXENs and reveal that bXENs resemble the hypoblast lineages of early bovine peri-implantation embryos . Furthermore , we show that bXENs maintain the stemness of expanded embryonic stem cells ( EPSCs ) and prevent them from undergoing differentiation . The chemical cocktail sustaining bXENs also facilitates the growth of epiblasts in developing pre-implantation embryos . Finally , 3D assembly of bXENs with bovine EPSCs and trophoblast stem cells enables efficient generation of blastoids that resemble blastocysts . bXENs and blastoids established here represent accessible in vitro models for understanding embryogenesis and improving reproductive efficiency in domestic livestock .
The spatial regulation of mRNAs in neurons , including their localization and translation , is controlled by RNA-binding proteins and is critical for neuronal development . In this study , we present evidence that the multifunctional RNA-binding protein adenomatous polyposis coli ( APC ) is encoded by an mRNA modified with N6-methyladenosine ( mA ) . This modification facilitates the translation of APC in neuronal somata via YTH domain-containing family ( YTHDF ) mA reader proteins . Disrupted APC expression , caused by reduced expression of the mA writer METTL14 or reader YTHDF1 , or by overexpression of METTL14 mutants carrying human missense mutations linked to autism and schizophrenia , impairs the transport and local translation of APC-regulated target mRNA beta-actin in axons and growth cones . Such disruptions consequently hinder axon development both in vitro and in vivo . These findings reveal a mechanism by which mA-regulated global expression of the RNA-binding protein APC governs axonal mRNA translation and development .
Western equine encephalitis virus ( WEEV ) enters cells via various receptors . Here , we report the cryoelectron microscopy ( cryo-EM ) structures of WEEV in complex with its receptors PCDH10 and very-low-density lipoprotein receptor ( VLDLR ) . Structural analysis shows that PCDH10 binds in the cleft formed by adjacent E2-E1 heterodimers of WEEV through its EC1 ectodomain . Residues of viral envelope proteins involved in the interactions with PCDH10 EC1 are unique to WEEV . The strain-specific receptor VLDLR binds WEEV strain McMillan through two consecutive ecto-LDLR class A ( LA ) repeats . LA1-2 , LA2-3 , LA3-4 , LA4-5 , and LA5-6 of VLDLR all have detectable interactions with WEEV . Detailed structures of WEEV in complex with LA1-2 and LA2-3 show that the N-terminal LA repeat binds in the cleft and that the C-terminal LA repeat is attached to the E2 B domain . The acquisition of a single E2 mutation ( V265F ) allows WEEV strain 71V-1658 , originally unable to bind VLDLR , to gain this receptor-binding ability . The binding of VLDLR to WEEV is in a mode different from those of other alphaviruses .
Heterozygous mutations in any of the six H3K4 methyltransferases ( KMT2s ) result in monogenic neurodevelopmental disorders , indicating non-redundant yet poorly understood roles of this enzyme family in neurodevelopment . However , the specific cellular role of KMT2 enzymes in the brain remains poorly understood , owing to the clear non-catalytic functions of each family member and the potential for functional redundancy in installing H3K4 methylation ( H3K4me ) . Here , we identify an instructive role for H3K4me in controlling synapse function and a division of labor among the six KMT2 enzymes in regulating homeostatic synaptic scaling . Using RNAi screening , conditional genetics , small-molecule inhibitors , and transcriptional profiling , our data reveal that individual KMT2 enzymes have unique roles and operate in specific phases to control distinct facets of homeostatic scaling . Together , our results suggest that the expansion of this enzyme family in mammals is key to coupling fine-tuned gene expression changes to adaptive modifications of synaptic function .
OBJECTIVE : Skeletal muscles exhibit pronounced anisotropy due to their highly oriented fibre structure , a property that significantly influences the spatial distribution of tissue mechanical and electrical properties . Understanding this anisotropy is critical for advancing biomedical applications such as electrical stimulation , bioelectric impedance analysis , and novel therapeutic interventions such as pulsed field ablation ( PFA ) . METHODS : We developed a numerical model incorporating realistic skeletal muscle fibre geometry at the microscale to elucidate the origins of the experimentally observed anisotropy at the bulk tissue level . To validate the model , we evaluated the skeletal muscle anisotropy using current density imaging ( CDI ) , a magnetic resonance-based technique . RESULTS : The developed numerical model identifies the origins of the observed anisotropy in bulk tissue . Experimental CDI measurements validate the model , confirming that the observed current anisotropy arises from the intrinsic properties of individual muscle fibres and their organization within the tissue . Remarkably , this anisotropy persists several - even up to 48 - hours post-mortem , suggesting a structural basis that transcends the level of muscle cell membranes . CONCLUSION : The integration of CDI with advanced modelling provides a powerful framework for understanding and leveraging skeletal muscle anisotropy in both imaging and therapeutic applications . SIGNIFICANCE : Our study provides an experimentally validated model of skeletal muscle that is relevant to biomedical applications involving electrical treatments . It also invites further experimentation using tissues immediately after harvesting , demonstrating potential use of ex vivo tissues as models of in vivo tissue , reducing the need for experimentation with live animals and the associated ethical burden . FAU - Smerc , Rok
Spatial transcriptomics analysis methods offer an opportunity to investigate highly diverse biological tissues . Cell-cell communication is fundamental for maintaining physiological homeostasis in organisms and coordinating complex biological processes . Identifying cell-cell interactions is critical for understanding cellular activities . The interaction of a cell with other cells depends on several factors , and most of the existing methods that consider only gene expression information of neighbouring cells and spatial location information are somewhat limited . In this paper , we propose a network architecture based on graph convolution network and long short-term memory attention module-GCNLA , which contains graph convolution layer , long short-term memory network , attention module , and residual connections . GCNLA not only learns the spatial structure of cells but also captures interaction information between distal cells , the attention module further extracting and enhancing features related to cell-cell interactions . Finally , the inner product decoding calculates the cosine similarity , which is used to infer cell-cell interactions . In addition , GCNLA is capable of reconstructing the complete cell-cell interaction network . The experimental results on seqFISH and MERFISH demonstrate that the GCNLA network structure has better robustness and noise immunity . The potential features learned by GCNLA enable other downstream analyses , including single-cell resolution cell clustering based on spatial information resolving cell heterogeneity . FAU - Yang , Chao
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : Auricular avulsion injuries present complex reconstructive challenges due to the intricate three-dimensional ( 3D ) structure and vascular supply of the ear . This review examines traditional and emerging techniques in auricular trauma repair , including microsurgical advancements , digital planning , tissue engineering , and 3D bioprinting , highlighting their impact on reconstructive outcomes . RECENT FINDINGS : Traditional techniques , such as multilayer closure and microsurgical reattachment , remain foundational in auricular reconstruction . However , recent studies suggest that subtotal amputations with small vascular pedicles may survive without microvascular anastomosis . Microsurgical refinements , including digital planning and customized surgical guides , enhance precision in reconstruction . Tissue engineering innovations , such as 3D bioprinting with biomimetic scaffolds and magnetoresponsive hydrogels , show promise for auricular cartilage regeneration . Additionally , postoperative adjuncts like antipressure alarm systems and bioactive hydrogels seeded with stem cells improve healing and long-term outcomes . SUMMARY : Auricular trauma repair is evolving through a combination of established and innovative techniques . Digital planning , microsurgical advancements , and tissue engineering are shaping a new era of patient-specific reconstruction . Future research should focus on refining these technologies , evaluating long-term efficacy , and addressing economic feasibility to optimize patient outcomes .
BACKGROUND : The combined use of anti-programmed cell death protein 1 ( PD-1 ) /anti-cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein 4 ( CTLA-4 ) checkpoint inhibitors has been effective in various cancer types . The Southwest Oncology Group ( SWOG ) Dual Anti-CTLA-4 and Anti-PD-1 Blockade in Rare Tumors ( DART ) S1609 study investigated ipilimumab and nivolumab in ultra-rare cancers , including small cell carcinoma of the ovary , hypercalcemic type ( SCCOHT ) . The purpose of the study was to evaluate the potential clinical benefit of ipilimumab and nivolumab in patients with SCCOHT . METHODS : DART was a prospective , open-labeled , multicenter ( >1 , 000 US sites ) , multi-cohort phase II clinical trial of intravenous administration of ipilimumab ( 1 mg/kg , every 6 weeks ) plus nivolumab ( 240 mg , every 2 weeks ) . The primary endpoint was overall response rate [ORR , confirmed complete response ( CR ) and partial response ( PR ) ] per RECIST . Secondary endpoints included progression-free survival ( PFS ) , overall survival ( OS ) , clinical benefit rate ( CBR ; overall response plus stable disease >/=6 months ) , and toxicity . Immune responses were also evaluated . RESULTS : Six patients ( median age , 5 years ; median , 2 prior therapies ; no prior immunotherapy exposure ) with advanced/metastatic SCCOHT were evaluable . ORR and CBR were both 7% ( 1/6 ) with one patient having a confirmed CR lasting 2+ months . However , another patient had a confirmed immune CR ( iCR ) with immune PFS ( iPFS ) of 53+ months [ORR/iORR , 3% ( 2/6 ) ] . Notably , the latter patient had a progressing lesion at 24 weeks after initial response , but with renewed regression with ongoing therapy , suggesting delayed pseudo-progression . At 12-months , 3 patients remained alive . Median PFS was 4 months ( range , 9 months-not reached ) ; median OS was 2 months ( 2 months-not reached ) . No adverse events caused treatment discontinuation . CONCLUSION : Two of 6 patients ( 3% ) with SCCOHT achieved durable CR/iCR and long-term survival with ipilimumab plus nivolumab . Correlative studies to determine response and resistance markers are ongoing . GOV REGISTRY : NCT
Primary renal manifestations of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( prDLBCL ) represent an exceptionally rare variant of the most common type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma ( NHL ) . Insights into prDLBCL pathogenesis have been limited to small case series and methodologically limited approaches . To address this gap , we conducted the largest comprehensive molecular study of prDLBCL to date , analyzing 30 cases using whole exome sequencing , RNA sequencing , and somatic copy number alteration profiling . The mechanisms driving lymphomagenesis within an organ lacking an intrinsic lymphatic niche and its proclivity for dissemination to immune-privileged sites , including testes and the central nervous system , remain poorly understood . Our findings reveal significant molecular similarities to primary large B-cell lymphomas of immune-privileged sites ( IP-LBCL ) , including a high frequency of immune-escape mechanisms , particularly through deleterious MHC class I and II aberrations and loss of CDKN2A . Despite significant mutational heterogeneity with a broad distribution among molecular clusters , transcriptional deregulation of interferon signaling and MYC target pathways emerged as key hallmarks of prDLBCL pathogenesis . Our comprehensive analysis of prDLBCL biology significantly advances the molecular understanding of this rare variant . These insights not only highlight shared pathogenetic pathways with IP-LBCL but also uncover unique features of prDLBCL , offering potential biomarkers for diagnostic refinement and therapeutic targeting . These findings have profound implications for the future development of diagnostic algorithms and risk-adapted therapeutic approaches , potentially improving the clinical management of this rare and challenging lymphoma subtype .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE : Cancer pain treatment faces challenges such as ineffective pain management , high-dose opioid use , and insufficient analgesia . Dexmedetomidine ( DEX ) , a novel alpha2 receptor agonist , is a potential adjuvant analgesic . Its analgesic mechanism involves central coeruleus cell hyperpolarization , activation of peripheral , spinal cord , and spinal alpha2 receptors , and regulation of cellular signaling pathways and inflammatory factors . DEX reduces harmful neurotransmitter production and pain signal transmission and enhances opioid analgesia while decreasing opioid use and tolerance . This review introduces the main mechanisms of DEX and its potential for treating complex and refractory cancer pain . METHODS : We conducted literature searches using the terms " dexmedetomidine , " " cancer pain , " " opioid sparing , " " analgesic mechanism , " and their combinations in PubMed , Embase , Cochrane Library , and Web of Science . We systematically retrieved research articles , reviews , and editorials published in English up to mid-December All identified publications were reviewed , and their key references were cross-checked to ensure a comprehensive and high-quality review . KEY CONTENT AND FINDINGS : Preclinical and clinical studies have demonstrated the advantages and potential of DEX in cancer pain management . DEX has intrinsic analgesic properties and can significantly relieve cancer pain by interacting with opioids , thereby delaying the development of opioid tolerance . It is particularly suitable for patients with refractory cancer pain and provides effective treatment whether used as an analgesic or an anesthetic adjuvant . CONCLUSIONS : DEX is a promising adjuvant for cancer pain management , utilizing multi-mechanism analgesia and opioid-sparing effects to address unmet needs in refractory cases . Preclinical and clinical studies highlight efficacy heterogeneity across different cancer types and limited long-term safety data . High-quality , multicenter randomized controlled trials are needed to determine the optimal dose , refine dosing regimens , and verify results across diverse populations . Until further evidence is available , DEX should be considered a valuable adjunct in individualized , multimodal analgesic strategies , with careful monitoring of hemodynamic parameters and central nervous system adverse events .
Electrolytes play a crucial role in regulating interfacial chemistry , which is essential for the development of high-energy-density lithium metal batteries . Herein , we present an ether-based electrolyte system incorporating the simplest Grignard reagent , CH3MgCl , as an additive . This additive , endowed with Lewis-base characteristics , enhances the stability of the anode-electrolyte interface through bifunctional effects . During Li deposition , CH3Mg+ preferentially adsorbs onto the electrode surface , attracting more anions into the Helmholtz layer . Concurrently , CH3- creates an electron-rich environment , facilitating nucleophilic attacks on anions and promoting its reduction to form an inorganic-rich solid-electrolyte interphase ( SEI ) . Additionally , Mg2+ undergoes electrodeposition prior to Li+ , forming a Li-Mg alloy with subsequently deposited Li . This process lowers the nucleation barrier for Li deposition , resulting in improved deposition uniformity . Accordingly , the designed electrolyte demonstrates excellent cycling stability for Li anodes in both Li||Cu half-cells and full-cells paired with LiFePO4 cathodes . Notably , Li||LiFePO4 batteries using a thin-film Li anode pre-deposited on Cu retain ~84% of their initial capacity after 300 cycles with an average Coulombic efficiency of ~74% . These findings highlight the critical role of additives in engineering interfacial chemistry and provide a promising strategy for designing advanced electrolytes to improve the cycling performance of Li metal batteries .
There is an emerging role for Stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) signaling in pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) development . Related , prior resesarch has demonstrated the relevance of the immune checkpoint protein Programmed death ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) expression by immunoregulatory myeloid cells in PH . However , there remains a need to elucidate the cell-specific role of STING expression , and the STING/PD-L1 signaling axis in PH , before readily available disease-modifying therapies can be applied to patients with disease . Here , through generation of bone marrow chimeric mice , we show that STING-/- mice receiving wild-type ( WT ) bone marrow are protected against PH secondary to chronic hypoxia . We further demonstrate a cellular dichotomous role for STING in PH development with STING expression by smooth muscle cells contributing to PH , and its activation on myeloid cells being pivotal in severe disease prevention . Finally , we provide evidence that a STING-PD-L1 axis modulates disease severity , suggesting future potential therapeutic applications . Overall , these data provide concrete evidence of STING involvement in PH in a cell-specific manner , establishing biologic plausibility for cell-targeted STING-related therapies in PH treatment . FAU - Pham , Ann T
Stenotrophomonas maltophilia has emerged as an opportunistic pathogen originating from the environments , causing nosocomial infections , particularly in immunocompromised individuals and patients with cystic fibrosis . Although this microorganism exhibits low virulence , its infections are associated with high morbidity and mortality rates . S . maltophilia is intrinsically resistant to many antimicrobial agents used in clinical practices , therefore , posing significant treatment challenges . The multidrug resistance in S . maltophilia results from a combination of intrinsic , adaptive , and acquired mechanisms . S . maltophilia genome carries an array of genes encoding multidrug efflux pumps , which are key contributors to its broad-spectrum antibiotic resistance by expelling a wide range of drugs and reducing their intracellular concentrations to nontoxic levels . The majority of these efflux pumps belong to the resistance-nodulation-cell division ( RND ) family , while a lesser fraction is classified under the major facilitator superfamily ( MFS ) and the adenosine triphosphate binding cassette ( ABC ) family . In terms of function , substrate specificity , and complex gene regulation , these multidrug efflux pumps contribute not only to the survival of S . maltophilia under antibiotic stress but also to its resilience against other chemical challenges , including oxidative stress-generating substances and biocides . The roles of certain efflux pump systems in acquired and adaptive antibiotic resistance , as well as their potential applications as drug targets to enhance the efficacy of routinely used antibiotics through the use of small molecules capable of functioning as efflux pump inhibitors , are also discussed . A deeper understanding of these mechanisms can contribute to the more effective management against antibiotic-resistant S . maltophilia . FAU - Vattanaviboon , Paiboon
Diabetic kidney disease ( DKD ) is the leading cause of end stage kidney disease . Kidney tubular cells have a high energy demand , dependent on fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) . Although carnitine is indispensable for FAO , the pathological role of carnitine deficiency in DKD is not fully understood . We showed here that ectopic lipid accumulation due to impaired FAO increased in patients with DKD and inversely correlated with renal function . OCTN2 deficient mice exhibited systemic carnitine deficiency with increased renal lipid accumulation . Cell death and inflammation were induced in OCTN2-deficient , but not wild-type tubular cells exposed to high salt and high glucose . Compared with SDT fatty rats , uninephrectomized SDT fatty rats fed with 3% NaCl had higher lipid accumulation and exhibited increased urinary albumin excretion with renal dysfunction and tubulointerstitial injury , all of which were ameliorated by L-carnitine supplementation via stimulating FAO and mitochondrial biogenesis . In our single-center randomized control trial with patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis , L-carnitine supplementation preserved residual renal function and increased urine volume , the latter of which was correlated with improvement of tubular injury . The present study demonstrates the pathological role of impairment of carnitine-induced FAO in DKD , suggesting that L-carnitine supplementation is a potent therapeutic strategy for this devastating disorder . FAU - Ito , Sakuya
CD16 is an activating Fc receptor on natural killer cells that mediates antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) , a key mechanism in antiviral immunity . However , the role of NK cell-mediated ADCC in SARS-CoV-2 infection remains unclear , particularly whether it limits viral spread and disease severity or contributes to the immunopathogenesis of COVID- We hypothesized that the high-affinity CD16AV176 polymorphism influences these outcomes . Using a novel in vitro reporter system , we demonstrated that CD16AV176 is a more potent and sensitive activator than the common CD16AF176 allele . To assess its clinical relevance , we analyzed 1 , 027 hospitalized COVID-19 patients from the Immunophenotyping Assessment in a COVID-19 Cohort ( IMPACC ) , a comprehensive longitudinal dataset with extensive transcriptomic , proteomic , and clinical data . The high-affinity CD16AV176 allele was associated with a significantly reduced risk of ICU admission , mechanical ventilation , and severe disease trajectories . Lower anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG titers were correlated to CD16AV176 ; however , there was no difference in viral load across CD16 genotypes . Proteomic analysis revealed that participants homozygous for CD16AV176 had lower levels of inflammatory mediators . These findings suggest that CD16AV176 enhances early NK cell-mediated immune responses , limiting severe respiratory complications in COVID- This study identifies a protective genetic factor against severe COVID-19 , informing future host-directed therapeutic strategies . FAU - Qualls , Anita E
Immune and clinical outcomes to Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) infection vary greatly between individuals yet the underlying genetic and cellular mechanisms driving this heterogeneity remain poorly understood . We performed a cellular genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) to identify genetic variants associated with Mtb-induced monocyte transcriptional expression of IL1B , IL6 , TNF , and IFNB1 via RNA-seq in a Ugandan cohort . Significantly associated variants were assessed for transferability in an independent Seattle cohort , further validated in vitro , and assessed for clinical phenotype associations . We identified 77 loci suggestively associated with Mtb-induced cytokine expression in monocytes in Uganda . SNPs associated with Mtb-induced TNF were enriched within alpha-linolenic acid metabolism pathway genes which was validated in vitro using PLA2 inhibitors . Four loci maintained significant associations in Seattle . We validated cytokine effect with siRNA knockdown for two of these loci which mapped to the genes SLIT3 and SLC1A Furthermore , exogenous treatment of macrophages with SLIT3 enhanced Mtb intracellular replication . Finally , SLC1A1 and SLIT3 variants were associated with susceptibility to tuberculous meningitis ( TBM ) and subsequent survival in a Vietnamese cohort , respectively . In sum , we identified multiple variants and pathways associated with Mtb-induced cytokine transcriptional responses that validated in vitro and were associated with clinical TB susceptibility . FAU - Ivie , Joshua J
The mycobacterial cytoskeletal protein Wag31 is necessary for maintaining cell shape and directing cellular growth and elongation . Wag31 has a characteristic N-terminal DivIVA-domain and a C-terminal coiled-coil domain . While the role of Wag31 in polar elongation is known , there is limited mechanistic insight on how it orchestrates growth and elongation . In this report , we delineate roles of the N- and C-terminal domains of Wag31 using genetics , state-of-the-art multi-omics , biochemical , and imaging approaches . We show that Wag31 predominantly interacts with several membrane-associated proteins involved in lipid metabolism , cell wall synthesis , and division . Native levels of Wag31 are critical for the maintenance and distribution of membrane lipids . Both depletion and overexpression of Wag31 perturb lipid homeostasis , leading to the formation of intracellular lipid inclusions ( ILIs ) . Protein-lipid crosslinking and imaging studies reveal that purified Wag31 can bind and effectively tether cardiolipin ( CL ) -containing liposomes . We further show that the tethering activity lies in the DivIVA-domain containing N-terminal of Wag31 while the C-terminal mediates protein-protein interactions of Wag Despite retaining its ability to interact with partner proteins , the DivIVA-domain-deleted Wag31 mutant shows defects in liposome tethering in vitro and non-polar localization of CL in vivo , which eventually causes lethality . Our study suggests that membrane tethering ' licenses ' Wag31 to form scaffolds that help orchestrate protein-lipid and protein-protein interactions necessary for mycobacterial growth and survival .
The nucleosome is the basic unit of chromatin . Each nucleosome is composed of a little less than two turns of DNA wrapped around a set of eight proteins called histones , which are known as a histone octamer . Each histone octamer is composed of two copies each of the histone proteins H2A , H2B , H3 , and H Nucleosomes play an important role in gene expression and regulation . While previous protocols use HPLC ( high-performance liquid chromatography ) to purify each histone and , after octamer reconstitution , subsequent FPLC ( fast protein liquid chromatography ) to purify the octamers . Here we present a method to carry out octamer reconstitution and mononucleosome assembly with FPLC only . This basic protocol describes a procedure for histone purification from Escherichia coli ( E . coli ) , their subsequent reconstitution as octamers , and assembly into mononucleosomes in vitro . Through this protocol , histone octamers and mononucleosomes can be reconstituted on a large scale without the use of HPLC . Overall , this protocol describes an effective new method for the reconstitution of octamers and assembly of mononucleosomes . ( c ) 2025 Wiley Periodicals LLC . Basic Protocol : Purification of recombinant histones and mononucleosome assembly .
The B cell receptor ( BCR ) is critical for mature B cell lymphomas , serving as a therapeutic target . We show that high-grade B cell lymphomas with MYC and BCL2 rearrangements ( HGBCL-DH-BCL2 ) predominantly exhibit immunoglobulin heavy ( IGH ) chain silencing , leading to BCR shutdown . IGH-silenced HGBCL-DH-BCL2 ( IGHUND ) differ from IGH+ counterparts in germinal center-zone programs , MYC expression , and immune infiltrate . While IGH+ HGBCL-DH-BCL2 favor IGM/IG-Kappa expression , IGHUND counterparts complete IGH isotype switching and IG-Lambda rearrangements . IGHUND lymphomas retain productive IGHV rearrangements and require IGH for optimal fitness . BCR silencing , caused by accelerated IGH turnover and reduced IGH expression , precedes HGBCL-DH-BCL2 onset , inducing RAG1/2-dependent IG light chain editing and facilitating t ( 8 ; 22 ) /IGL : : MYC translocations . IGHUND HGBCL-DH-BCL2 models exhibit reduced sensitivity to the CD79B-targeting antibody-drug conjugate Polatuzumab-vedotin . Collectively , HGBCL-DH-BCL2 commonly arises from isotype-switched t ( 14 ; 18 ) + germinal center B cells , which edit IG light chains , fueling intra-clonal diversification , BCR extinction , and t ( 8 ; 22 ) while maintaining IGH dependence , with clinical implications . FAU - Varano , Gabriele
PURPOSE : This study investigates optic disc and macular morphology using handheld spectral domain-optical coherence tomography ( SD-OCT ) in preterm infants with and without brain pathology . METHODS : In this prospective observational study , premature newborns underwent handheld SD-OCT at 36 weeks postmenstrual age . Semiautomated quantitative OCT analysis was performed including the optic disc and macula . Routine head ultrasound radiology reports were obtained from the medical record . RESULTS : A total of 69 patients ( 35 male and 34 female ) were included . The average birth weight was 7 +/- 4 g and gestational age was 99 +/- 57 weeks . Extremely preterm infants born at <28 weeks ' gestation had a larger cup diameter ( P = 006 ) , thinner nasal neural rim thickness ( P = 010 ) , and deeper maximal cup depth ( P = 010 ) compared with preterm infants ( >/=28 weeks ' gestation ) . Brain lesions on ultrasound examination were detected in 15 patients ( 7% ) , with all having intraventricular hemorrhage ( IVH ) and 2 patients also presenting with periventricular leukomalacia . Patients with IVH had a thicker central macular retinal nerve fiber layer , ganglion cell layer , and inner plexiform layer than those without IVH ( P = 029 , P = 022 , and P = 002 ) . These differences persisted after adjusting for retinopathy of prematurity stage ( P = 042 , P = 034 , and P = 007 , respectively ) . When controlling for gestational age , the ganglion cell layer and inner plexiform layer differences remained ( P = 011 and P = 032 , respectively ) . Optic nerve parameters did not differ between infants with and without IVH . CONCLUSIONS : IVH was associated independently with arrested foveal maturation with no discernible effect on optic disc morphology in the preterm newborn period . TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE : The macular structural changes detected by SD-OCT in preterm newborns with brain pathology may suggest the need for closer monitoring of visual development in these infants . FAU - Jeon , Hyeshin
IgM antibodies are preformed pentameric or hexameric molecules that can be engineered to generate high affinity and high avidity fully human antibody therapeutics . In this study , we report an immunocytokine , IGM-7354 , which was designed to bind multiple PD-L1 receptors while trans-presenting a single IL-15/IL-15Ralpha complex on the joining chain to IL-15Rbetagamma-expressing cytotoxic natural killer ( NK ) and CD8+ T-cells . We evaluated the pharmacological and anti-tumor properties of IGM-7354 in preclinical models . IGM-7354 induced potent proliferation of NK and CD8+ T-cells , both in vitro using healthy human PBMCs and in vivo in humanized mice , through the IL-15/IL-15Ralpha complex . In a mixed-lymphocyte reaction assay with exhausted human T-cells , IGM-7354 restored the secretion of IFNgamma compared to the IL-15/IL-15Ralpha complex or anti-PD-L1 alone , suggesting a rescue of exhausted T-cells in vitro . Robust single agent activity was observed in the humanized PD-L1+ MDA-MB-231 breast cancer mouse model . Anti-tumor responses were enhanced by adding IGM-7354 to the anti-CD38 daratumumab in RPMI-8226 multiple myeloma or anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapies in Raji lymphoma models . Finally , in cynomolgus monkeys , pharmacodynamic activity of increased NK and CD8+ T-cell proliferation was observed in multiple tissue compartments . Taken together , this study demonstrates the feasibility of developing a safe and effective IgM-based immunocytokine for the treatment of cancer , exploiting the multivalency of an IgM antibody to bind PD-L1 with high affinity and avidity and stimulate NK and CD8+ T-cell effectors . FAU - Desbois , Melanie
PURPOSE : Metabolomic profiling of aqueous humor from primary open-angle glaucoma ( POAG ) patients using targeted metabolomics analysis and assessment of the potential anti-neuroinflammatory and neuroprotective roles of key dysregulated metabolites in a mouse model of retinal neuroinflammation . METHODS : A targeted metabolomics was performed on aqueous humor from POAG patients ( n = 19 ) and healthy subjects ( n = 10 ) via LC-MS/MS . In vitro neuroprotection studies were performed using a mouse cone photoreceptor cell line ( 661W ) exposed to oxidative stress . For in vivo therapeutic studies , a few key dysregulated metabolites were delivered either topically via extracellular vesicle ( EV ) -mediated delivery or intravitreally into a C57BL/6 mouse model of retinal neuroinflammation . The neuroprotective and anti-neuroinflammatory properties were determined in the presence and absence of metabolites through pattern electroretinography , TUNEL , and quantitative PCR analyses . RESULTS : Among the 135 endogenous metabolites identified , 31 metabolites showed significant dysregulation in POAG . Metabolite set enrichment analysis revealed that these altered metabolites were associated with dysregulation of multiple key cellular pathways , including glycolysis , pentose phosphate pathway , short-/long-chain fatty acid metabolism , mitochondrial beta-oxidation , and electron transport chain under glaucomatous conditions . Among these differentially expressed metabolites , a putative neuromodulator ( agmatine ) and a vitamin ( thiamine ) significantly decreased in POAG patients . Intravitreal or EV-mediated topical delivery of agmatine and thiamine significantly reduced the inflammatory response and protected retinal ganglion cell function against neuroinflammatory damage in the mouse retina . Agmatine and thiamine treatment also significantly protected photoreceptor cells from oxidative stress-induced cell death and attenuated the inflammatory cytokine response . CONCLUSIONS : Our results revealed significant metabolic alterations in POAG that affect key cellular functions . Agmatine and thiamine could be potential immunomodulatory or neuroprotective drugs to treat or prevent neuroinflammatory damage to the retina during glaucoma . FAU - Monu , Monu
PURPOSE : The transcriptomic profiling of scleral fibroblasts remains largely unexplored . To elucidate their heterogeneity , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) on primary infant scleral fibroblasts . METHODS : Primary scleral fibroblasts , cultured at passage 2 from the anterior , equatorial , and posterior regions of infant sclera ( 3 months to 2 years of age ) were subjected to scRNA-seq using the 10x Genomics platform . In-depth analysis revealed distinct transcriptomic profiles between anterior and posterior scleral fibroblasts , including differential expression of dopamine ( DA ) receptors , which was subsequently validated both in vitro and in situ . Furthermore , the regulatory role of DA in scleral remodeling was assessed using an in vitro collagen gel contraction assay , and the involvement of DA receptor activity and expression in this process was further explored through pharmacological manipulation and gene silencing approaches . RESULTS : Infant scleral fibroblasts have anterior and posterior subpopulations , each exhibiting distinct transcriptomic profiles . Anterior scleral fibroblasts show increased expression of D1-like receptors , but posterior scleral fibroblasts exhibit elevated expression of D2-like receptors . D1-like receptor activity enhances the inhibitory effect of DA on scleral remodeling in anterior sclera , whereas D2-like receptor activity , particularly that of DRD2 in the posterior sclera , counteracts this effect . Gene silencing of DRD4 significantly enhances DA-mediated inhibition of scleral remodeling in the posterior sclera . CONCLUSIONS : To our knowledge , this study presents the first comprehensive transcriptomic profiling of infant scleral fibroblasts , revealing their heterogeneity . The investigation of the regulatory role of DA receptor activity and expression in DA-mediated inhibition of scleral fibroblast contraction provides new insights into how DA signaling modulates scleral remodeling . FAU - Guan , Jiali
Age-related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is a top cause of severe vision loss and blindness in older adults globally . This multifactorial disease arises from genetic , environmental , and age-related factors . Protein acetylation modification plays a key role in AMD progression through both epigenetic and non-epigenetic pathways . This review comprehensively discusses the multidimensional impacts of protein acetylation in AMD , particularly its dynamic regulation of angiogenesis , oxidative stress , inflammatory responses , and cellular senescence . Recent evidence shows that histone acetylation modification inhibits choroidal neovascularization ( CNV ) formation by regulating vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and hypoxia-inducible factor ( HIF-1alpha ) expression , while upregulating the complement inhibitor clusterin to maintain Bruch ' s membrane integrity . Additionally , the NAD+-dependent deacetylase SIRT1 modulates the deacetylation of transcription factors such as PGC-1alpha , NF-kappaB , and FOXO3 , enhancing mitochondrial antioxidant function and suppressing inflammatory cascades to disrupt the vicious cycle of oxidative stress and chronic inflammation . In terms of cellular senescence , histone hypoacetylation and hyperacetylation of non-histone proteins ( e . g . , p53 , E2F1 ) jointly cause retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cell-cycle arrest and autophagy imbalance , accelerating AMD progression . Genetic evidence further reveals subtype-specific expression changes and epigenetic regulatory mechanisms of histone deacetylases ( HDACs ) , such as HDAC11 and HDAC1/3 , in AMD . This article explores the clinical significance of these findings and proposes a novel combined therapeutic strategy . It involves synergistically targeting acetylation homeostasis with HDAC inhibitors ( e . g . , TSA , AN7 ) and SIRT1 activators while inhibiting abnormal angiogenesis , repairing metabolic disorders , and restoring autophagy function . This dual-targeting approach may overcome current anti-VEGF therapy limitations and open new precision management avenues for AMD . FAU - Luo , Tianyi
PURPOSE : This study aims to explore the role of SRY-related HMG box transcription factor 4 ( SOX4 ) in promoting invasion in retinoblastoma ( RB ) and to elucidate the underlying oncogenic pathways . METHODS : SOX4 expression in human retina , intraocular RB , and extraocular RB samples was evaluated using bulk RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) and single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , with further evaluation in RB cell lines ( Y79 , WERI-RB1 ) . Small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown was performed in RB cell lines , followed by functional assays including CCK-8 , EdU , colony formation , and transwell assays . An orthotopic xenograft model with SOX4 knockdown was utilized to assess tumor invasion . RNA-seq was performed on SOX4 knockdown ( si-SOX4 ) and control ( si-NC ) Y79 cells to explore downstream signaling pathways . RESULTS : RNA-seq and scRNA-seq data revealed that SOX4 , E2F3 , and DEK were significantly upregulated in RB tissues compared to normal retina . Notably , SOX4 expression was particularly elevated in extraocular RB tissues , especially in MKI67+ photoreceptorness-decreased cells . Knockdown of SOX4 in RB cell lines caused decreased proliferation , colony formation , migration , and reversal of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition markers ( N-cadherin , E-cadherin , vimentin ) . In vivo , SOX4 knockdown resulted in fewer cases of anterior chamber involvement and eyeball wall invasion in an orthotopic xenograft model . RNA-seq analysis revealed that SOX4 knockdown altered the Wnt/beta-catenin and cyclin D1 signaling pathways . CONCLUSIONS : SOX4 plays a critical role in driving local invasion in RB , and targeting SOX4 may provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of RB invasion , potentially leading to improved therapeutic strategies for RB treatment . FAU - Nie , Jiahe
PURPOSE : Visual impairment from normal-tension glaucoma ( NTG ) poses an increasing burden , yet the underlying mechanism remains unclear . Investigating protective mechanisms for NTG is critical . We aimed to investigate the role of ferroptosis in retinal ganglion cell ( RGC ) damage in glutamate-aspartate transporter ( GLAST ) knockout ( GLAST-/- ) mice , a model for NTG , and also to determine whether inhibiting ferroptosis can provide neuroprotection . METHODS : GLAST-/- mice and a glutamate-induced excitotoxicity model in primary RGCs were used to investigate retinal and RGC damage . RNA sequencing identified ferroptosis-related pathways in GLAST-/- retinas . Oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation , and ferroptosis activation were assessed using western blotting and immunofluorescence . Immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) assessed lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis activation in human retinal tissue . Ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) was administered to evaluate its neuroprotective effects on RGC survival , retinal thickness , and visual function . RESULTS : RNA sequencing revealed significant enrichment of ferroptosis-related pathways in GLAST-/- retinas . Both GLAST deletion and glutamate-induced excitotoxicity increased oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation , and ferroptosis activation in RGCs . IHC in human retinas confirmed elevated 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) and acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long-chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) expression . Furthermore , Fer-1 treatment significantly reduced lipid peroxidation , thereby attenuating the ferroptosis pathways . This intervention ameliorated RGC loss associated with GLAST deletion , protected retinal structure and thickness , and improved amplitudes of the photopic negative response , a-wave , b-wave , and oscillatory potentials . CONCLUSIONS : Ferroptosis significantly contributes to RGC and retinal damage in the GLAST-deletion NTG model . Inhibiting ferroptosis with Fer-1 presents a promising therapeutic strategy for protecting visual function in NTG . FAU - Ye , Huiwen
Ionizing radiotherapy ( RT ) is a widely used treatment strategy for malignancies . In solid tumors , RT-induced double-strand breaks lead to the accumulation of indels , and their repair by non-homologous end-joining has been linked to the ID8 mutational signature in surviving cells . However , the extent of RT-induced mutagenesis in hematologic malignancies and its impact on their mutational profiles and interplay with commonly used chemotherapies has not yet been explored . Here , we interrogated 580 whole-genome sequence samples ( WGS ) from patients with large B-cell lymphoma , multiple myeloma , and myeloid neoplasms and identified ID8 only in relapsed disease . Yet , ID8 was detected after exposure to both RT and mutagenic chemotherapy ( i . e . , platinum and melphalan ) . Using WGS of single-cell colonies derived from treated lymphoma cells , we revealed a dose-response relationship between RT and platinum and ID Finally , using ID8 as a genomic barcode we demonstrate that a single RT-surviving cell may seed distant relapse . FAU - Diamond , Benjamin
Objective : Lysosomal ion channel function in macrophages contributes to the development of silica-induced inflammation . Recent studies have shown that blocking K ( + ) entry into the lysosome via the BK channel reduces silica-induced damage and inflammation in macrophages . This study aims to explore the mechanisms of particle-induced inflammation in BK ( -/- ) macrophages . Methods : Bone marrow derived macrophages ( BMdM ) from C57BL/6 wildtype ( WT ) and BK ( -/- ) mice were exposed in vitro to silica and IL-1beta release and cell death assessed . The effect of BK ( -/- ) on lysosomal pH , proteolytic activity , and cholesterol accumulation was evaluated . Results : BK ( -/- ) BMdM failed to demonstrate a reduction in IL-1beta or cell death following silica exposure . BK ( -/- ) BMdM had comparable lysosome function to WT suggesting a compensatory mechanism was maintaining lysosome function . BK ( -/- ) macrophages demonstrated an upregulation of a second lysosomal potassium channel , TMEM Inhibition of TMEM175 activity caused an increase in lysosomal pH and reduced silica-induced cell death and IL-1beta release in both BK ( -/- ) and WT BMdM . Conclusion : BK ( -/- ) BMdM did not exhibit the same phenotype seen with pharmaceutical abrogation of BK channel activity and showed no differences from WT in response to silica exposure . Upregulation of TMEM175 in BK ( -/- ) macrophages appears to prevent changes in lysosomal pH and cholesterol accumulation . Inhibiting TMEM175 activity in both BK ( -/- ) and WT BMdM resulted in an increase in lysosomal pH and reduced silica-induced inflammation , suggesting that reduced particle-induced cell damage and inflammation is not dependent on the activity of a single lysosomal ion channel but rather on mechanisms that elevate lysosomal pH . FAU - Kendall , Rebekah L
IMPORTANCE : Patients with borderline resectable or unresectable stage III non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) with T4 and/or N2-N3 involvement face limited treatment options and poor outcomes . Neoadjuvant chemoimmunotherapy has shown promise in improving resectability and pathological responses . OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the efficacy of neoadjuvant programmed cell death 1 protein ( PD-1 ) or programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) blockade combined with chemotherapy in enhancing surgical outcomes and pathological responses in patients with T4 and/or N2-N3 stage III NSCLC . DESIGN , SETTING , AND PARTICIPANTS : This multicenter cohort study analyzed data from patients treated between February 2018 and January 2024 with neoadjuvant PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors plus chemotherapy at academic and tertiary care centers across the US and Italy . Pathological and survival outcomes were assessed . Patients with stage III NSCLC and T4 and/or N2-N3 involvement were included . Data were collected from February 2018 to January EXPOSURES : Neoadjuvant PD-1/PD-L1 blockade combined with platinum-based chemotherapy . MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES : Pathological complete response ( pCR ) , major pathological response , surgical resectability , and event-free survival ( EFS ) . RESULTS : Of 112 patients , 58 ( 8% ) were female , and the median ( range ) age was 66 ( 41-84 ) years . A total of 84 ( 0% ) underwent surgical resection , achieving a pCR rate of 0% ( 24 of 83 with available final pathology ) and a major pathological response rate of 2% ( 35 of 83 ) . Patients with both PD-L1 expression of 50% or more and high tumor mutational burden achieved the highest pCR rate ( 4 of 9 [4%] ; P = . 03 ) . Conversely , covariants in KRAS/STK11 or KRAS/KEAP1 were associated with lack of pCR . Patients with single-station or multistation N2/N3 disease exhibited comparable pathological outcomes . The median EFS for all resected patients was 6 months ( 95% CI , 8 to not reached ) , and this was significantly longer in patients with pCR ( not reached vs 8 months [95% CI , 5 to not reached] ; P < . 001 ) . CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE : In this study , neoadjuvant PD-1/PD-L1 blockade combined with chemotherapy resulted in high pathological response rates and surgical resectability in patients with T4 and/or N2-N3 stage III NSCLC . This approach offers a viable treatment option for patients with borderline resectable or unresectable NSCLC but requires further validation through prospective studies . FAU - Ricciuti , Biagio
IMPORTANCE : The De-escalated Adjuvant Radiation Therapy ( DART ) phase 3 randomized clinical trial ( RCT ) showed that in patients with human papillomavirus ( HPV ) -associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma , postoperative minimal residual disease ( MRD ) , detected through circulating tumor HPV DNA ( ctHPVDNA ) , was associated with a higher risk of disease progression . When considered along with pathologic factors , postoperative ctHPVDNA assessment may improve patient selection for adjuvant treatment de-escalation ; however , more data are needed to demonstrate how it may be used in personalizing treatment intensity . OBJECTIVE : To determine the association of postoperative MRD status with progression-free survival ( PFS ) after surgery for HPV-associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma . DESIGN , SETTING , AND PARTICIPANTS : This was a secondary analysis of the DART RCT , which was conducted from October 2016 to August 2020 in multiple sites in the US . Participants from the de-escalated adjuvant radiation therapy group and the standard of care group with available blood specimen data were included . Reports from 3-month posttreatment surveillance visits were used to assess associations and outcomes . Data analyses were performed from March 2023 to March of INTERVENTIONS : The DART group received 30 to 36 Gy of radiation therapy in 5 to 8 Gy twice daily , plus docetaxel , 15 mg/m2 , on days 1 and The standard of care group received 60 Gy with or without weekly cisplatin , 40 mg/m MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURE : PFS . RESULTS : The analysis included 140 patients ( mean [SD] age , 1 [4] years ; 12 [6%] females and 128 [4%] males ; 97 [3%] with no smoking history ) ; characteristics were similar to the overall DART RCT population . Of these , 17 patients ( 1% ) had postoperative MRD ( 13 of 96 [5%] receiving DART and 4 of 44 [1%] receiving standard of care ) . For all patients , postoperative MRD positivity was strongly associated with worsened PFS at 24 months ( MRD positivity , 5% ; MRD negativity , 9% ; hazard ratio [HR] , 19 ; 95% CI , 06-59 ) . MRD positivity was associated with PFS when evaluating only those patients in the DART group , where 24-month PFS was 4% compared to 6% for MRD-negative patients ( HR , 28 ; 95% CI , 08-93 ) . Three months after completion of all treatment , 8 of 117 patients ( 8% ) had detectable ctHPVDNA , whereas 109 of 117 ( 2% ) did not , and detection was highly associated with PFS ( HR , 48 ; 95% CI , 91-67 ) . CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE : This secondary analysis of the DART RCT found that patients with detectable ctHPVDNA after surgery had a higher risk of disease progression . When added to the pathologic factors considered , ctHPVDNA assessment may improve selection of patients for treatment de-escalation . In addition , the 3-month posttreatment time point , early in surveillance , may identify a sizable portion of patients with progression and may guide intervention and surveillance after surgery for HPV-associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma . TRIAL REGISTRATION : ClinicalTrials . gov Identifier : NCT FAU - Routman , David M
To explore how early can cancers be detected prior to clinical signs or symptoms , we assessed prospectively collected serial plasma samples from the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities ( ARIC ) study , including 26 participants diagnosed with cancer and 26 matched controls . At the index time point , eight of these 52 participants scored positively with a multicancer early detection ( MCED ) test . All eight participants were diagnosed with cancer within 4 months after blood collection . In six of these 8 participants , we were able to assess an earlier plasma sample collected 1 to 5 years prior to clinical diagnosis . In four of these six participants , the same mutations detected by the MCED test could be identified , but at 6 to 79-fold lower mutant allele fractions . These results demonstrate that it is possible to detect circulating tumor DNA more than three years prior to clinical diagnosis , and provide benchmark sensitivities required for this purpose . FAU - Wang , Yuxuan
Insulin-binding B cells are implicated in Type 1 Diabetes ( T1D ) pathology . Antigen-specific immunotherapy ( ASIT ) holds promise in T1D . However , ASIT-targeted suppression of insulin-binding B cells is hampered by insulin ' s hormonal activity and the resulting binding and endocytosis of insulin by insulin receptors ( INSR ) . To evaluate ASIT strategies that target insulin-binding B cells in vivo , non-hormonally active insulin variants are needed . In this work , we aimed to improve upon prior non-hormonal insulin variants by making mutations to the insulin precursor , proinsulin , and including a c-terminal sortase ( SrtA ) tag ( LPETGGHG ) to enable facile site-selective bioconjugation to scaffolds or payloads . Of the insulin variants investigated that retained low-nM binding to the murine-derived insulin autoantibody mAb 125 , proinsulin ( F25D ) -SrtA had the lowest INSR binding and activity and the greatest fibrillation resistance . Compared to desoctapeptide insulin , a previously proposed non-hormonal insulin variant , proinsulin ( F25D ) -SrtA demonstrated 50-fold lower INSR binding and 100-fold greater fibrillation lag time . However , insulin ( F25D ) -SrtA bound to the anti-insulin antibody 12M4 isolated from a presymptomatic T1D individual , whereas proinsulin ( F25D ) -SrtA and desoctapeptide insulin did not , highlighting the potential for anti-insulin B cells to develop in human T1D that would escape this ASIT moiety . The characteristics of proinsulin ( F25D ) -SrtA make it a well-suited non-hormonal insulin variant for insulin-binding B cell targeting and warrants additional study with other anti-insulin B cell specificities derived from T1D individuals .
Engineered antibody therapies have significantly propelled the advancement of tumor immunotherapy . However , a considerable proportion of patients fail to respond to treatment or experience relapses following an initial positive response . Moreover , recurrence rates have increased due to antigen escape or downregulation . To address this challenge , novel strategies to engineer trispecific antibodies ( tsAbs ) have been developed in recent years . Here , we describe the molecular procedures of construction , expression , and purification of optimal tsAbs [specifically , Her2/VEGFR2/CD3 ( SO ) and CD19/CD22/CD3 ( CC ) tsAbs] . Also , we detail the experimental methods of functional validation of optimal tsAbs , including immunofluorescence analysis , cytokine release detection , and in vitro cytotoxicity assay and in vivo efficacy studies .
Chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) -T cell therapy has emerged as a groundbreaking immunotherapeutic approach to cancer treatment . However , despite its remarkable results , challenges persist , such as manufacturing complexity , side effects , and cost . Allogeneic therapies offer potential solutions to these challenges by enhancing accessibility , reducing cost , and increasing scalability . Due to their innate cytotoxicity and reduced risks of side effects to the patients , natural killer cells are an up-and-coming option for allogeneic CAR therapy . The NK-92 cell line use allows large-scale expansion suitable for clinical grade applications , providing a uniform and highly cytotoxic source . Nevertheless , gene delivery using viral vectors is still an obstacle related to CAR-NK therapies due to their natural antiviral activity . Thus , the present protocol offers an efficient approach for CAR-NK-92 cell generation via lentiviral transduction , thereby advancing the potential of this promising cancer therapy .
Monocytes are highly plastic cells and can be used as precursors for the generation of dendritic cell ( DC ) -based vaccines . Despite the capacity of DC vaccines to elicit antigen-specific T responses , their clinical benefit has been disappointing . Poor phenotypic stability , reduced migratory capacity , and the acquisition of tolerogenic features when injected into patients might explain their limited clinical efficacy . Consequently , tailoring the immunogenic potential of DCs by manipulating their differentiation offers the possibility of improving the efficacy of DC vaccines , especially in combination with immune checkpoint blockade therapies . We have reported that the simultaneous pharmacological inhibition of the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 and the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) in the presence of GM-CSF induces the differentiation of highly immunogenic human monocyte-derived dendritic cells ( MoDCs ) . When compared to the traditional method to generate MoDCs in vitro , using GM-CSF and IL-4 , these cells show higher phenotypic stability and stronger immunogenic profile . Here we provide a comprehensive protocol for the generation of these cells and evaluation of their immune functions in vitro .
Early insight into the strength of antigen-specific T cell immune responses is an important aspect for the screening and development of novel immunotherapies , including immune checkpoint inhibitors . Here , we describe a simple , rapid , and cost-effective luminescence-based protocol for the assessment of antigen-specific T cell responses in vitro . This method makes use of genetically engineered Jurkat reporter cells expressing a high-affinity T cell receptor ( TCR ) toward a commercially available human papillomavirus 16 E7 peptide ( E7-TCR ) , in which luciferase activity is coupled to activation of the promoter of the Nuclear Factor of Activated T Cells ( NFAT ) transcription factor . With this method , luminescence is generated and can be detected within 6 h only upon antigen-specific activation of the E7-TCR transgenic Jurkat cells with cognate E7 antigenic peptide . This method can be easily modified to study the impact of potential co-stimulatory and immunosuppressive molecules that may be present within the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) and to monitor the impact of antagonistic antibody treatment on abrogating immunosuppression . We believe this method can be further exploited as valuable tool to study factors that may affect T cell immunity in the immunosuppressive TME and the impact of molecules , cytokines , or therapeutics in triggering effective antigen-specific T cell responses .
Alterations in the epigenetic landscape are now recognized as a hallmark of cancer . Among these , histone posttranslational modifications ( HPTMs ) represent a critical control layer , playing a significant role in chromatin remodeling and gene expression regulation . The comprehensive mapping of these modifications on a genome-wide scale is crucial for identifying regulatory regions and understanding downstream pathways , thereby providing a deeper and more integrated understanding of cancer biology . CUT&RUN ( Cleavage Under Targets and Release Using Nuclease ) , combined with next-generation sequencing , is emerging as a highly reliable , low-background , and user-friendly technology for mapping antibody-bound chromatin regions in a genome-wide manner . In this chapter , we provide a comprehensive overview of an optimized protocol for targeting HPTMs in frozen tissue samples , emphasizing the crucial role of nucleus purification in our methodology .
The Assay for Transposase-Accessible Chromatin using sequencing ( ATAC-seq ) is a rapid and sensitive method for exploring the cancer immune epigenome . ATAC-seq captures open chromatin sites based on transposing the sequencing adapter directly into native chromatin in vitro . Here we describe an optimized protocol for ATAC-seq with four main steps : nucleus extraction , transposition , library amplification , sequencing and data analysis . The ATAC protocol has the advantages of low sample requirements , high speed , and applicability to a wide range of cell and tissue types .
Chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with next-generation sequencing ( ChIP-seq ) is a crucial method for examining transcription factor binding and histone modifications across the entire genome . This is a key step in deciphering the complex mechanisms that control cancer immunosurveillance . Here , we provide a comprehensive protocol covering all the steps needed to obtain DNA for ChIP-seq library preparation , starting from tissue dissection , followed by fixation , chromatin preparation , immunoprecipitation , and finally DNA purification . The protocol is optimized for frozen mice tissues , but can be easily adapted for use with any model organism . The resulting immunoprecipitated chromatin is suitable for library preparation and sequencing on an Illumina platform .
Accurate cell type identification in single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) datasets is essential for dissecting the tumor immune microenvironment ( TIME ) and optimizing immunotherapy strategies . Here , we present an annotation protocol based on MIXTURE , our v-SVR deconvolution algorithm , which addresses the limitations of unsupervised annotation methods . We applied MIXTURE to an annotated melanoma scRNA-seq dataset , demonstrating its effectiveness in enhancing detailed cell type annotation and composition analysis of unannotated clusters . Our protocol successfully explores the composition of clusters , by providing detailed insights into cluster heterogeneity , enabling more accurate and granular identification of distinct cell types within complex single-cell RNA sequencing datasets .
The analysis of the T-cell receptor ( TCR ) is becoming an increasingly important tool in the study of the tumor microenvironment . Global features of the repertoire , including clonality and diversity , can give important insights into the immunological processes which drive cancer progression or regression , especially in the context of immune checkpoint inhibitors . Specific TCR sequences are increasingly being used as part of the computational or experimental antigen discovery pipeline . However , the clinical samples available from tumors frequently contain poor-quality nucleic acids , making the amplification of TCR libraries challenging . We describe a robust and inexpensive protocol which can be used in conjunction with our computational TCR annotation analysis pipeline , Decombinator , to generate TCR repertoires from a variety of RNA sources and concentrations , including poor-quality low-concentration RNA from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue . We call the method ( FFPE-suitable Unique Molecular idEntifier-based TCRseq ( FUME-TCRseq ) ) . The method uses a multiplex PCR to amplify the TCRbeta CDR3 region , together with sufficient V and J gene sequence to allow accurate annotation . The method incorporates a 12-base pair unique molecular identifier into each cDNA molecule , allowing downstream correction for sequencing errors , as well as PCR bias . The method unlocks a vast collection of archived tumor samples for TCR repertoire analysis , potentially leading to a better understanding of the immunology of the tumor/host response , and the mode of action of immunotherapeutic intervention .
The identification of tumor-specific neoantigen ( TSN ) immunogenicity is crucial to develop peptide/mRNA based antitumoral vaccines and/or adoptive T cell immunotherapies . In silico immunogenicity prediction of candidate peptides is crucial to speed up the prioritization of such peptides for experimental validation . Up to now , several methods were proposed as TSN immunogenicity predictors , but there are still several drawbacks in both performance and comprehensive performance evaluation , mainly due to the absence of well documented and adequate TSN databases . The Immunogenic Tumor-Specific Neoantigen database ( ITSNdb ) is a tool developed to fairly benchmark immunogenicity predictors intended to be used over tumoral neopeptides . The proposed ITSNdb enables the analysis of immunogenicity without the interference of other variables such as binding affinity or peptide processing , as they were considered into the inclusion criteria for the curation of neoantigens . ITSNdb , together with a dataset emulating a true patient neoantigens scenario , as a validation strategy for prioritization , and a list of neopeptides predicted to bind to major histocompatibility complex I ( MHC-I ) from immune checkpoint blockade immunotherapy ( ICB ) cohorts , along with their associated patient outcomes , is available to evaluate tumor neoantigen burden as a biomarker for ICB response ( accessible at https : //github . com/elmerfer/ITSNdb ) .
The successful implementation of immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) immunotherapy into clinical routine has underlined the importance of immunotherapy for the treatment of cancer . Nevertheless , benefits from ICI monotherapy remain limited to a subset of patients . The induction of immunogenic cell death ( ICD ) can prime tumors for subsequent ICI via the onset of adaptive immune responses leading to an infiltration of cytotoxic T lymphocytes . The nuclear and cellular nuclear release of high mobility group box 1 ( HMGB1 ) is one of the hallmarks of ICD . Binding of HMGB1 to Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) expressed on dendritic cells plays a pivotal role in stimulating their maturation and antigen presentation , facilitating the onset of adaptive immunity . Here we describe microscopic assessments of HMGB1 release that can be applied to the screening of chemical compound libraries for novel ICD inducing agents . Thus , quantitative measurement of HMGB1 release kinetics can be useful for the discovery of new immuno-oncology drugs .
Studying metabolism in the different cellular compartments of the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) is crucial to identify the specific metabolic signatures that contribute to tumor progression . Additionally , TME-driven metabolic changes can disrupt the essential metabolic processes involved in immune cell function , hindering immunotherapy success . Extracellular flux analysis ( Seahorse ) is a well-established approach used to characterize cellular metabolism . When combined with flow cytometry-based measurements , it offers a comprehensive view of the metabolic signatures within the different cellular compartments of the TME . Here we provide a detailed description on the procedures of Seahorse analysis and complementary flow cytometry-based metabolic readouts on tumor cells and T cells in the context of cancer , which can also be applied to other physiological and pathological situations .
Natural Killer T ( NKT ) cells , a specialized subset of T cells , play a pivotal role in immune surveillance . They recognize lipid antigens presented by the MHC class I-like molecule CD1d , bridging innate and adaptive immunity . NKT cells exhibit both pro-inflammatory and immunoregulatory properties , impacting various pathological states , including infections , autoimmune diseases , and cancer . The NKT hybridoma cell stimulation assay is a powerful tool for detecting and characterizing NKT cells , as well as screening natural and synthetic lipid antigens , potentially leading to novel therapeutic interventions . Here , we describe two complementary methods ( cell-free and cell-based ) to stimulate NKT hybridoma cells to secrete cytokine , which serves as an indirect measure of NKT cell activation . These assays provide insight into the intricate interplay between NKT cells , lipids , and other immune cell subsets , including antigen-presenting cells , and their impact on immune regulation and disease progression .
Natural killer ( NK ) cells exert a pivotal role in cancer pathology due to their ability to recognize and eliminate virus-infected , stressed , or malignant transformed cells . Although adaptive immunity recognizes cancer cells by detecting tumor-associated antigens , NK cells detect target cells in an antigen-specific independent manner , relying on a complex array of activating and inhibitory receptors . Despite their potential , NK cell-mediated antitumor activity faces challenges such as tumor resistance mechanisms and limited infiltration into tumor tissues . Herein , we describe a colony formation-based assay to evaluate NK cell-mediated tumor cytotoxicity in vitro , providing insights into NK cell responses and tumor cell resistance mechanisms , offering a valuable tool for studying and optimizing NK cell-based immunotherapy for cancer treatment . This method evaluates relative survival of tumor target cells to NK effector cells , and it can be complemented with flow cytometry analyses of NK cell immunophenotype or functional studies of soluble factors in supernatants , such as an Enzyme-Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay ( ELISA ) . This allows the elucidation of molecules and signaling pathways that regulate NK cell anticancer activity .
Innate immunity has a potent antitumor function and occurs as the first line of defense in cancer immunosurveillance . Natural killer ( NK ) cells are one of the most important effectors of innate immunity and exert their cytotoxic activity as a result of signals mediated by activating and inhibitory receptors able to recognize ligands on cancer cells . Of note , NK cells play a pivotal role in the efficacy of anticancer therapies , as those employing monoclonal antibodies , by mediating antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity . Additionally , some types of chemotherapeutics , such as taxanes , can modulate NK cell function . Thus , evaluating the activation state of NK cells is crucially useful for both monitoring the response to therapy and optimizing therapeutic strategies for improving patient ' s outcome . NK cell function is usually assessed by flow cytometry assays evaluating markers like perforin and granzyme or cytotoxic activity , which , however , represent late end point measures of NK cell activation . In this context , NF-kB represents an important mediator of pro-inflammatory gene expression in several immune cells , including NK cells . Upon activation , the NF-kB p65 subunit translocates from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and promotes the transcription of various genes , as those encoding for perforin , granzyme , and interferon-gamma . Therefore , assessing the nuclear translocation of this transcription factor represents a valuable strategy to study the triggering of immune effectors . In this chapter , we describe an imaging multispectral flow cytometry assay able to evaluate the nuclear translocation of the NF-kB p65 in NK cells as a marker of anticancer immune activation .
Protein phosphorylation is a reversible posttranslational modification essential for intracellular signaling in cells . Disruptions in these processes are fundamental to cancer development , as imbalances in phosphorylation can lead to aberrant signaling pathways driving tumor initiation , progression , and metastasis . Analyzing phosphorylation patterns in cancer cells can reveal critical signaling nodes and potential therapeutic targets . Reliable assessment of protein phosphorylation is crucial , and techniques such as phosphate-affinity SDS-PAGE , Western blotting , phospho-specific ELISA , mass spectrometry , and phospho-arrays are employed . This chapter focuses on phosphoflow technology , a flow cytometry-based assay , advantageous for its ability to analyze multiple cell populations and phosphorylation events simultaneously with minimal sample sizes . This method combines the principles of flow cytometry with specific antibodies that recognize phosphorylated epitopes on proteins . Phosphoflow allows to analyze multiple phosphorylated proteins simultaneously within a heterogeneous cell population without the need for cell purification . It is particularly useful for studying intracellular signaling pathways in various cell types , including those from clinical samples .
The immune system serves as a barrier limiting the initiation and progression of new tumors . Among its cellular components , CD8 ( + ) T cytotoxic cells are integral to the immune response against cancer . These cells can identify and combat tumor cells by releasing lytic granules , thereby driving the adaptive immune response . However , their function can be hindered by several factors such as immunosuppression in the tumor microenvironment , T cell exhaustion , and immunosenescence . Consequently , dissecting these mechanisms is essential to fully comprehend the immune response against cancer cells and can aid in tailoring future antitumor immunotherapies . In this chapter , we outline a straightforward method for isolating CD8 ( + ) T cells from the mouse spleen . These cells can then be further analyzed or utilized in in vitro functional studies , such as coculture with target tumor cells and assessing their cytotoxic activity and cytokine production profiling .
The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) is a heterogeneous and continuously evolving system . Besides malignant cells , it is composed of numerous immune cells , astrocytes and other stromal cells , blood vessels , and extracellular matrix . Interactions of tumor with other cells produce an immunosuppressive milieu , thus impeding antitumor immunity . The advancements of single-cell techniques provide powerful means to scrutinize the tumor and TME at high resolution , shedding light on the pathogenic mechanisms and dysfunctions of antitumor immunity . Cellular Indexing of Transcriptomes and Epitopes by Sequencing ( CITE-seq ) enables simultaneously single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNAseq ) and the acquisition of both quantitative and qualitative information about surface proteins using oligonucleotide-tagged antibodies . By combining proteomic and transcriptomic data from the same single cell , CITE-seq has become one of the leading approaches for phenotyping discrete cell populations . The method has been successfully used to detect over a hundred epitopes per cell , adding an additional layer of information that , when integrated with transcriptomic data , enables the identification of cellular states and functions , as well as the prediction of cell trajectories , maturity , and interactions with other cells .
Multicolor fluorescence-activated cell sorting ( FACS ) has allowed cancer researchers to gain insights into the role of immune cells within the tumor microenvironment . According to this , flow cytometry is widely used to characterize and quantify immune cell infiltration during tumor development in a given tumor implant . In preclinical mouse models of peritoneal carcinomatosis , FACS is usually used to study the peritoneal lavages . However , one of the most relevant tissues to analyze in peritoneal metastases , the omentum , often goes unnoticed . Previous works have demonstrated that flow cytometry analysis of the omentum is critical to understanding the anti-pro-tumoral response of gynecological or gastrointestinal cancer . Here , we set up a detailed protocol to study different cell populations in omental metastasis with specific multicolor FACS panel design , including T cells , natural killer cells , natural killer T cells , and B cells in peritoneal carcinomatosis mice models . In cancer , these cell populations exhibit unique phenotypic profiles and are known to contribute to tumor growth and immune evasion . Nevertheless , immunomodulation of the omentum through intraperitoneal immunotherapy strategies has been demonstrated to be crucial in controlling peritoneal carcinomatosis . The protocol described in this chapter lists the steps to be taken for the localization , extraction , processing , and characterization of different immune cell populations of omental tumor implants in peritoneal carcinomatosis mice models using multicolor flow cytometry . In conclusion , we consider that the immune characterization of omentum cell infiltration is relevant to predicting the antitumor response of different locoregional immunotherapy strategies .
Metastatic brain cancer is the most common intracranial cancer among adults , often leading to poor survival outcomes . The incidence of brain metastases is on the rise , likely associated with advanced systemic therapeutics which improve patient survival , providing sufficient time for micrometastases to develop into fully established metastases . Therefore , brain metastasis remains an unmet clinical need . The brain metastatic tumor microenvironment is a complex ecosystem composed of numerous brain , stromal , and immune cells with unique adaptations that represent a formidable challenge for treatment . Importantly , brain metastases are enriched in immune cells , especially myeloid resident and recruited cells considered highly plastic . Thus , it is critical to assess the immune landscape and functional phenotypes longitudinally and across treatment conditions in brain metastasis in a non-biased , comprehensive manner . Here , we outline a protocol to assess immune cell populations in murine brain metastasis samples , using a 23-color panel for spectral flow cytometry .
OBJECTIVE : This study evaluated the performance of CT radiomics in distinguishing between lung adenocarcinoma ( ADC ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) at baseline imaging , exploring its potential as a noninvasive virtual biopsy . MATERIALS AND METHODS : A retrospective analysis was conducted , enrolling 330 patients between September 2015 and January Inclusion criteria were histologically proven ADC or SCC and baseline contrast-enhanced chest CT . Exclusion criteria included significant motion artifacts and nodules < 6 mm . Radiological features , including lung lobe affected , peripheral/central location , presence of emphysema , and T/N radiological stage , were assessed for each patient . Volumetric segmentation of lung cancers was performed on baseline CT scans at the portal-venous phase using 3DSlicer software ( v2 ) . A total of 107 radiomic features were extracted and selected using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) and tenfold cross-validation . Multivariable logistic regression analysis was employed to develop three predictive models : radiological features-only , radiomics-only , and a combined model , with statistical significance set at p < Additionally , an independent external validation cohort of 16 patients , meeting the same inclusion and exclusion criteria , was identified . RESULTS : The final cohort comprised 200 ADC and 100 SCC patients ( mean age 68 +/- 10 years , 184 men ) . Two radiological and 21 radiomic features were selected ( p < 001 ) . The Radiological model achieved AUC 73 ( 95% CI 68-78 , p < 001 ) , 3% accuracy . The radiomics model achieved AUC 80 ( 95% CI 75-85 , p < 001 ) , 6% accuracy . The combined model achieved AUC 84 ( 95% CI 80-88 , p < 001 ) , 3% accuracy . External validation ( n = 15 ) yielded AUC 78 ( p = 05 ) . CONCLUSION : The combined radiologic-radiomics model showed the best performance in differentiating ADC from SCC .
OBJECTIVE : This review provides a comprehensive discussion about the importance of adequate lymphadenectomy , its anatomic and oncologic significance , principles and rationale of sentinel lymph node mapping , current evidence stratified by tracer substrate , challenges , and future directions . Esophageal cancer has one of the worst cancer-related survival rates , and nodal status is the single most significant prognostic factor . Submucosal penetration generally demands esophagectomy , often following neoadjuvant therapy in the presence of deeper extension . Guidelines recommend resecting >/=15 lymph nodes . Variability in surgical approach and dissection in concert with aberrant esophageal lymphatic anatomy make adequate lymphadenectomy difficult . METHODS : A narrative review was conducted to explore existing literature regarding lymphadenectomy with its requisite anatomic and oncologic significance in esophageal cancer , as well as the rationale for and present state of sentinel lymph node mapping stratified by substrates . Tables and figures were constructed by the authors using Microsoft Office applications and Biorender software , respectively . RESULTS : Sentinel lymph node mapping exploits the tumoral lymphatic network to identify the nodes most prone to metastasis , directing further dissection . Targeting sentinel lymph nodes with dyes , radiotracers , or hybrid tracers can assist surgeons with lymphadenectomy , potentially improving staging accuracy and personalizing care to individual anatomy . CONCLUSIONS : While this approach would benefit from larger studies and long-term data , early evaluations suggest improved detection of metastases outside the en bloc field without significantly increasing morbidity .
Infections caused by antimicrobial drug-resistant ( AMR ) pathogens like methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) have triggered global scale search for innovative , clinically viable and cost affordable alternatives that do not generate resistance . Antimicrobial photodynamic therapy ( aPDT ) and postbiotics are innovative alternatives to circumvent AMR pathogens . However , MRSA biofilms reduce microbial susceptibility to aPDT and postbiotics . Integrating both modalities can be a novel MRSA anti-biofilm therapeutics avenue , but further studies are needed to validate the efficacy and applicability . We investigated the potentiality of methylene blue ( MB ) -mediated aPDT ( MB-aPDT ) followed by Lactobacillus acidophilus-derived cell-free supernatant ( LA-CFS ) treatment on MRSA planktonic culture , pre-formed biofilms , biofilm initiation , and maturation . Compared to aPDT or LA-CFS monotherapy , MB-aPDT followed by LA-CFS ( 20 and 40% v/v ) treatment for 2 h leads to augmentation in inactivation of MRSA planktonic culture and CFU data correlates with flow cytometry data ( R = 87 ) . Atomic force microscopy ( AFM ) unravels different pattern of morphological alterations elicited by aPDT or LA-CFS , but extensive cellular damage and cell fragmentation results from the combinatorial treatment . The determinants of LA-CFS-based augmented action seem to be pH labile . Further , destruction of preformed biofilm shows the following trend : aPDT < LA-CFS < aPDT + LA-CFS . Furthermore , MRSA surviving LA-CFS or aPDT can either adhere to the substratum or form loose biofilms , respectively , but the combinatorial regimen remarkably inhibits adherence and subsequent biofilm initiation , as well as maturation . The augmentation of MRSA inactivation using aPDT-postbiotics can be a new therapeutic avenue for the management of MRSA biofilm-associated infections .
The prevention and treatment of acute ischemic stroke have been longstanding challenges . Therapies targeting angiogenesis hold promising potential for ischemic injury repair . Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production , induced by the overexpression of NADPH oxidase 4 ( NOX4 ) , is a key factor that inhibits angiogenesis during the acute phase of ischemia/reperfusion . Therefore , targeting NOX4 gene expression can reduce ROS production and promote angiogenesis . In this study , human neural progenitor cell ( hNPC ) -derived-exosomal miRNAs were identified using high-throughput sequencing and online database , with miR-100-5p showing potential to suppress NOX4 expression . We then incorporated exogenous miR-100-5p into hNPC-derived exosomes through electroporation . These miR-100-5p-loaded exosomes were then applied to in vitro models of mouse brain microvascular endothelial cells ( bEND . 3 ) subjected to oxygen glucose deprivation and reperfusion ( OGD/R ) . The results showed that miR-100-5p could significantly reduce NOX4 expression and ROS levels induced by OGD/R in bEND . 3 cells . Similarly , in vivo analysis showed that mice models of middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) injected with hNPC-derived exosomes loaded with miR-100-5p exhibited smaller brain infarct size , reduced apoptosis , and improved neurological performance compared to MCAO mice receiving PBS . Our findings demonstrate the successful delivery of miR-100-5p via hNPC-derived exosomes and its protective effect on brain microvascular endothelial cells following ischemia injury .
Fatty acid binding protein 7 ( FABP7 ) is a pivotal cytoplasmic protein involved in the transport and metabolism of fatty acids , with critical functions in the nervous system . This review highlights recent advances in understanding the role and mechanisms of FABP7 in neurological diseases . It begins with an overview of FABP7 ' s distribution and expression in the nervous system , emphasizing its involvement in essential biological processes such as lipid metabolism , energy regulation , synaptic transmission , cell growth , and neuroinflammation . This review also explores FABP7 ' s associations with major neurological disorders , including Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , schizophrenia , and depression , shedding light on its dual roles in neuroprotection and neurodegeneration . These findings position FABP7 as a promising target for novel therapeutic strategies . By unraveling its precise mechanisms and contributions to both neural health and disease , future research on FABP7 has the potential to revolutionize treatments for neurological disorders , offering innovative directions for therapeutic development .
Neurogenesis is a biological process in which new neurons are generated from neural stem cells ( NSCs ) in specific neural niches in the brain . Impaired neurogenesis , characterized by the progressive loss of neurons , leads to cognitive and motor disabilities and is a hallmark of central nervous system ( CNS ) diseases . Conversely , enhancing neurogenesis has been shown to alleviate the symptoms of CNS diseases . Apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) is a protein that plays various biological roles in CNS diseases . Emerging research indicates that APOE is involved in adult neurogenesis , which is crucial for maintaining the neural progenitor pool in the dentate gyrus ( DG ) and synaptic activity . Therefore , APOE could be a therapeutic target for promoting neurogenesis in the treatment and intervention of CNS diseases . In this context , we present a comprehensive overview of the clinical evidence supporting the role of APOE in CNS diseases on the basis of a meta-analysis . We also discuss the neurogenic potential of APOE , which has significant implications not only for understanding the biological underpinnings of neurological diseases but also for developing novel treatment strategies for CNS diseases .
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : Abdominal aortic aneurysm ( AAA ) is a life-threatening vascular disorder with high mortality upon rupture , yet effective pharmacotherapy remains lacking . This review synthesizes the pivotal roles of myeloid cells-key mediators of aortic inflammation and remodeling-in AAA pathogenesis , highlighting their therapeutic targeting potential . RECENT FINDINGS : Single-cell RNA sequencing has revealed myeloid diversity in AAA . Among these myeloid populations , macrophages ( including interferon-responsive monocytes , pro- and anti-inflammatory subsets , and reparative populations ) emerge as central regulators of AAA pathogenesis , influencing disease initiation , progression , and tissue repair processes . Neutrophils promote vascular injury via neutrophil extracellular traps , while dendritic cells bridge innate-adaptive immunity . Eosinophils and myeloid-derived suppressor cells exhibited protective effects by immunoregulation . Mechanistic studies identified transcriptional , metabolic , and epigenetic regulators of myeloid plasticity . Clonal hematopoiesis and trained immunity may serve as potential novel mechanisms of myeloid cells involved in AAA . These mechanistic insights have inspired therapeutic innovation , with nanoparticle-targeted myeloid cell therapies showing promising immunomodulatory effects in mitigating AAA progression . Myeloid cells play a pivotal role in AAA pathogenesis by driving inflammatory responses , extracellular matrix degradation , and maladaptive vascular remodeling . Their functional heterogeneity , encompassing both destructive and protective subsets , highlights the need for precisely targeted therapeutic approaches . While single-cell technologies have significantly advanced our understanding of myeloid diversity , clinical translation remains challenged by microenvironmental crosstalk and potential off-target effects . Future research should prioritize : spatial multi-omics characterization of myeloid-vascular interactions , development of precision therapies targeting clonal hematopoiesis-driven subpopulations , and combinatorial strategies to reprogram pathogenic myeloid phenotypes . Addressing these critical gaps may lead to transformative therapies for aneurysm stabilization , ultimately fulfilling the urgent unmet needs in AAA clinical management .
PURPOSE : Hepatocyte growth factor ( HGF ) , secreted by Sertoli cells , activates the c-Met receptor , facilitating seminiferous tubule formation . Glial cell-derived neurotrophic factor ( GDNF ) promotes embryonic Sertoli cell proliferation and cord formation . This study aimed to investigate whether exogenous GDNF contributes to HGF-induced in vitro organization of Sertoli cells in a Matrigel-based three-dimensional ( 3D ) culture system . METHODS : Four experimental groups were established using the 15P-1 Sertoli cell line : control , HGF-treated , GDNF-treated , and combined HGF- and GDNF-treated . Tubular structure length and branching were quantified using image analysis software , while the expression of ZO-1 protein was assessed via immunofluorescence staining in 3D Matrigel-based culture for 5 days . Additionally , Gfralpha-1 , Ret , Ncam , and Met mRNA expression in Sertoli cells were analyzed . The expression levels of ZO-1 , c-MET , and p-c-MET were analyzed in two-dimensional ( 2D ) culture after 5 days . RESULTS : Quantitative analysis revealed a significant increase in the length and branching of tubular-like structures when GDNF was co-administered with HGF , compared to other groups . Additionally , there was a notable increase in ZO-1 protein expression with the combined administration of GDNF and HGF , surpassing levels observed in the control group . Furthermore , co-administration of HGF and GDNF significantly elevated phospho-c-Met levels compared to the control group . CONCLUSION : Our study reveals that exogenous GDNF enhances the HGF-induced tubular organization of Sertoli cells in vitro . The concurrent administration of GDNF and HGF markedly augments the formation of tubular structures and the expression of the ZO-1 protein , indicating a potential synergistic influence on the organizational and signaling cascades within Sertoli cells .
PURPOSE : To develop and validate a predictive model for live birth ( LB ) outcomes in single euploid frozen embryo transfers ( seFET ) based on patient ' s characteristics and embryo parameters . METHODS : A retrospective cohort study was performed including 1979 seFET performed between March 2017 and December Prediction models were built using logistic regression ( LR ) , random forest classifier ( RFC ) , support vector machines ( SVM ) , and a gradient booster ( XGBoost ) . Considered variables associated with LB outcomes were blastocyst expansion , blastocyst inner cell mass ( ICM ) and TE quality , day ( D ) of TE biopsy ( D5 , D6 , and D7 ) , female age and body mass index ( BMI ) , distance from the uterine fundus at embryo transfer , endometrial preparation as natural cycles ( NC ) or hormonal replacement therapy ( HRT ) , and endometrial thickness . Model performance was evaluated using area under the precision-recall curve and calibration metrics . RESULTS : Variables that were negatively associated with LB rate were BMI ( OR = 79 [64-96] , P = 020 for overweight and OR = 76 [60-95] , P = 015 for obese class I/II ) , ICM grade B ( OR = 72 [57-90] , P = 005 ) or C ( OR = 21 [15-30] , P < 001 ) , TE grade C ( OR = 32 [24-43] , P < 001 ) , and blastocyst biopsied on D6 ( OR = 66 [55-80] , P < 001 or D7 ( OR = 19[09-37] , P < 001 ) . The LR model was the best in terms of overall classification performance ( C-statistics : 626 +/- 018 vs . 606 +/- 018 , 581 +/- 018 , 601 +/- 017 , LR vs . RFC , XGBoost , and SVM , respectively , P < 001 ) . A prediction model of LB outcome was developed and is free to access : https : //artfertilityclinics . shinyapps . io/ABLE/ . CONCLUSION : LR demonstrated a stable validation performance and superior LB prediction , aiding as a predictive tool for patient counselling and assessing success in seFET cycles .
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : Mechanical loading of bone is an important physical stimulus for bone tissue remodeling and adaptation . It is transmitted from the extracellular matrix all the way to the osteocyte nucleus via the extracellular matrix-integrin-cytoskeleton-nucleus system . Mitochondria are integral in sensing of mechanical loads to allow the cell to adapt to its environment . This review provides a background of mitochondrial distribution in osteocytes especially during mechanical loading , discussing the importance of mitochondrial distribution in osteocyte mechanosensitivity and mechanotransduction . RECENT FINDINGS : Mitochondria throughout the osteocyte are highly dynamic and provide essential metabolic and signal functions to regulate osteocyte morphology and function . They undergo the processes of fission and fusion accompanied by mitochondrial DNA distribution . The mitochondrial network structure and function in osteocytes can be regulated by mechanical loading . Interestingly , mitochondria can be transmitted by osteocytes into adjacent cells to communicate with them via tunneling nanotubes , migrasomes , and blebbisomes , causing changes in cell morphology and/or function . Mitochondrial distribution in or out osteocytes can be rearranged by physical and ( bio ) chemical signals via fission and fusion , as well as tunneling nanotubes , migrasomes , and blebbisomes . Mechanical loading-induced changes in mitochondria may drive signaling pathways of cell function in aging and diseases . More insights into interactions between neighbouring osteocytes and between osteocytes and other cell types would facilitate the development of new strategies to apply mitochondrial therapy for bone-related diseases .
INTRODUCTION : Bladder cancer ( BCa ) is a leading malignancy in the urinary tract system , often resulting in poor prognosis due to rapid relapse and metastasis , with a low 5-year survival rate . Although the role of N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) methylation and long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) is implicated in BCa progression , research on how lncRNAs influence BCa prognosis and potential therapeutic interventions remains scarce . METHODS : RNA expression profiles and gene mutations for 406 BCa patients were retrieved from the The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) database . A comprehensive dataset was established to correlate lncRNAs with 21 identified m6A-associated genes , categorized into writers , erasers , and readers . Pearson correlation analysis between these m6A genes and lncRNAs was performed and a prognostic model derived from m6A-associated lncRNAs was developed . Immune infiltration was analyzed using multiple evaluative methods and the correlation between single nucleotide variant ( SNV ) mutations and drug sensitivity was assessed for the correlative relationship with the m6A-associated lncRNA-derived risk scores . RESULTS : We identified 3 , 462 m6A-associated lncRNAslinked to BCa prognosis , of which 238 lncRNAs showed significant associations with overall survival in BCa patients . A m6A-associated lncRNA-derived risk model comprising 26 selected lncRNAs was developed using Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator ( LASSO ) Cox regression , where BCa patients with higher m6A-associated lncRNA-derived risk scores had poorer outcomes . The prognostic significance and reliability was validated , with an area under the curve ( AUC ) value exceeding 7 at multiple time points . Additionally , a nomogram integrating clinical features and m6A-associated lncRNA-derived risk scores had enhanced prognostic accuracy over other clinical indicators , with promise for clinical decision-making . A negative correlation was observed between m6A-associated lncRNA-derived risk scores and tumor mutational burden ( TMB ) . Moreover , patients with high m6A-associated lncRNA-derived risk score group showed significant enrichment of regulatory T cells ( Tregs ) , M2 macrophages , and fibroblasts , highlighting the potential involvement of immune and stromal cells in these BCa patients . CONCLUSION : These findings highlight the prognostic value and clinical relevance of m6A-associated lncRNAs in BCa for future patient stratification and personalized therapy approaches .
PURPOSE : Midkine ( MK ) has been shown to facilitate atherosclerotic plaque formation by downregulating the expression of ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 ( ABCA1 ) . However , the mechanism by which MK regulates ABCA1 to promote atherosclerosis remains incompletely understood . In this study , we sought to investigate the molecular mechanism by which MK ' s regulation of ABCA1 influences the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis . METHODS : Male apoE ( -/- ) mice were subjected to a high-fat diet to establish an atherosclerosis model . The model mice received intraperitoneal injections of MK and activator protein-1 ( AP-l ) inhibitor SR The ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 ( ABCA1 ) and AP1 expression were detected using immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) , quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( qPCR ) , and western blotting ( WB ) . RAW7 macrophages were incubated with oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL ) to generate foam cells . These foam cells were treated with MK , SR11302 , JNK inhibitor SP600125 , and PI3K inhibitor wortmannin . The expression of ABCA1 , AP-1 , JNK , and PI3K were detected using qPCR and WB . The cholesterol efflux and lipid accumulation of cells were analyzed using scintillation counting and oil red O staining , respectively . RESULTS : MK-treated mice exhibited an accelerated development of atherosclerotic lesion ( 30% in the MK group vs . 20% in the control group ) , along with hepatic steatosis and lipid disorder . The expression of c-fos and AP-1 were up-regulated by MK in macrophages . Compared with the MK-treated group , inhibition of AP-1 using SR11302 or transfection with c-fos siRNA markedly enhanced the cholesterol efflux ( 73% in the MK + SR11302 group vs . 98% in the MK group , 73% in the MK + si-c-fos group vs . 02 % in the MK group ) , reduced lipid accumulation , and increased the protein levels of ABCA1 in macrophages . Compared to the MK-treated group , mice treated with both MK and SR11302 showed downregulated ABCA1 expression in aortic sinus lesions , a larger lesion area ( 59% vs . 54% ) , and significantly elevated levels of plasma total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , and triglycerides ( TG ) . These results suggest that MK-induced pharmacological inhibition of AP-1 augmented ABCA1 expression in plaques , ameliorated lipid disorders , and abrogated atherosclerosis progression in apoE ( -/- ) mice . In addition , in vitro experiments revealed that the MK-induced up-regulation of c-fos expression was effectively suppressed by inhibitors of JNK and PI3K . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings unveil a novel mechanistic pathway in atherosclerosis , whereby MK promotes the development of atherosclerosis by up-regulating AP-1 in macrophages via the PI3K/AKT/JNK signaling cascade .
Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER-2 ) serves as a pivotal target for breast cancer treatment and a vital prognostic marker . Anti-HER-2 therapies , which are integral to the management of HER-2-positive breast cancer , including monoclonal antibodies ( e . g . , trastuzumab and pertuzumab ) , tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( e . g . , lapatinib and pyrotinib ) , and antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) such as trastuzumab emtansine ( T-DM1 ) . ADCs consist of a monoclonal antibody , a linker , and a cytotoxic payload , engineered to deliver chemotherapy selectively to tumor cells , thereby reducing the systemic toxicity associated with traditional chemotherapy . T-DM1 , a HER-2-targeting ADC , combines the humanized anti-HER-2 IgG1 trastuzumab with DM1 , a cytotoxic agent that inhibits microtubule formation . T-DM1 has significantly enhanced the prognosis of HER-2-positive breast cancer patients who fail to achieve a pathological complete response or develop distant metastases after neoadjuvant trastuzumab and pertuzumab therapy . While the combination therapy of T-DM1 with radiotherapy demonstrates an acceptable safety profile overall , clinicians should remain vigilant regarding potential severe treatment-related toxicities that have been observed in specific clinical scenarios . Nevertheless , limited research exists regarding the adverse effects and mechanisms of T-DM1 in combination with radiotherapy . This review investigates preclinical studies on the interactions between T-DM1 and radiotherapy , investigates associated adverse effects and their underlying mechanisms , identifies predictive factors and prognostic implications , and explores potential therapeutic strategies involving the concurrent T-DM1 with radiotherapy .
Currently , perovskite solar cells have achieved commendable progresses in power conversion efficiency ( PCE ) and operational stability . However , some conventional laboratory-scale fabrication methods become challenging when scaling up material syntheses or device production . Particularly , the prolonged high-temperature annealing process for the crystallization of perovskites requires a substantial amount of energy consumption and impact the modules ' throughput . Here , we report a modified near-infrared annealing ( NIRA ) process , which involves the excess PbI engineered crystallization , efficiently reduces the preparation time for perovskite active layer to within 20 s compared to dozens of min in conventional hot plate annealing ( HPA ) process . The study showed that the incorporated PbI promoted the consistent nucleation of the perovskite film , leading to the subsequent rapid and homogeneous crystallization at the NIRA stage . Thus , highly crystalized perovskite film was realized with even better crystallization performance than conventional HPA-based film . Ultimately , efficient perovskite solar modules of 36 and 100 cm were readily fabricated with the optimal PCEs of 03% and 18% , respectively . This study demonstrates , for the first time , the successful achievement of homogeneous and high-quality crystallization in large-area perovskite films through rapid NIRA processing . This approach not only significantly reduces energy consumption during production , but also substantially shortens the manufacturing cycle , paving a new path toward the commercial-scale application of perovskite solar modules .
Autophagy is a critical regulator of cellular homeostasis . The proteins involved in autophagy orchestrate the functions to strike the balance between cell survival and cell death in context-specific situations like aging , infections , inflammation and most importantly carcinogenesis . One of the major dead-locks in cancer treatment is the development of resistance to the available drugs ( multi-drug resistance ) as well as immune-suppressions in patients . Different studies over time have shown that autophagy is being involved in chemotherapy by working hand in hand with apoptosis or drug resistance through proliferative signals . Resistance to various drugs , such as , Cisplatin , Vincristine , Tamoxifen ( TAM ) occurs by epigenetic modifications , changed expression levels of microRNAs ( miRNAs/miRs ) , and long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) , which are regulated by the aberrant autophagy levels in lung , and breast cancers . More interestingly in the tumour microenvironment the immune suppressor cells also bring in autophagy in different pathway regulations either helping or opposing the whole carcinogenesis process . Macrophages , T cells , B cells , dendritic cells ( DCs ) , neutrophils , and fibroblasts show involvement of autophagy in their differentiation and development in the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . Here , this extensive review for the first time tries to bring under a single canopy , several recent examples of autophagy-mediated immune regulations and autophagy-mediated epigenetically regulated drug resistance in different types of cancers .
INTRODUCTION : Management of cytomegalovirus ( CMV ) viremia/disease in transplant recipients may be complicated by toxicities and resistance to conventional antivirals , adding to the overall healthcare burden . Despite advances in analyzing real-world data in current years , little is known about refractory and resistant CMV . This study therefore aimed to characterize treatment patterns and patient numbers with special focus on refractory and resistant CMV . METHODS : Two classical three-round Delphi consensus panels with German clinical experts in CMV following solid organ transplantations ( SOT ) and hematopoietic stem cell transplantations ( HSCT ) were held between October and December 2021 using online questionnaires . Consensus was defined as agreement of 75% of participants . RESULTS : Following SOT , experts agreed that on average 65% of SOT patients are not affected by CMV at all , while 35% of patients experience CMV viremia or disease . Of SOT patients treated with antiviral therapies , experts agreed that 90% respond to their first-line treatment and 10% do not . For HSCT , experts agreed that 62% of patients experience no CMV , while 38% of patients are diagnosed with either CMV viremia or CMV disease . It was further estimated that 23% HSCT patients receiving antiviral treatment do not respond to their first-line CMV treatment . Experts reached consensus on the reasons for non-response , suggesting that among non-responders , 55% were intolerant , while 45% of non-responders were refractory/resistant to first-line treatment . CONCLUSION : Based on the current incidence of transplantations in Germany , experts estimated that 103 SOT and 225 HSCT patients need second-line CMV treatment annually .
Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) treatment has been revolutionized by the advent of targeted therapies for tumors harboring specific actionable alterations . Targeted agents are now approved for use in patients with advanced NSCLC with various drivers including ALK rearrangements , BRAF V600E mutations , EGFR mutations , ERBB2 mutations , KRAS G12C mutations , MET exon 14 skipping alterations , NTRK fusions , RET rearrangements , and ROS1 rearrangements . Importantly , the availability of these agents has raised the clinical question of how to optimally sequence their use alongside chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy strategies , which are indicated for broader populations . Key considerations include ( i ) evidence for better outcomes when first-line treatment is initiated following availability of molecular profiling data ; ( ii ) the decreasing proportion of patients able to receive therapy in each successive treatment line ; ( iii ) the efficacy of targeted agents demonstrated in either single-arm trials or head-to-head comparisons with chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy , as compared with evidence for poor or modest efficacy of immunotherapy in patients with tumors with actionable drivers ; ( iv ) real-world data showing better outcomes of patients with tumors with actionable alterations who received targeted therapies compared with those who did not ; ( v ) the generally favorable safety profile of targeted therapies , as well as the potential for increased toxicity when immunotherapy precedes certain targeted agents ; and ( vi ) patient-centric factors including the greater ease of administration of oral targeted therapies over intravenous chemotherapy or immunotherapy strategies . In line with these considerations , guidelines typically recommend most targeted agents approved for first-line use as initial therapy over chemotherapy and/or immunotherapy . In this podcast , the authors discuss the current therapeutic landscape of NSCLC with actionable alterations and provide their perspectives on treatment algorithms , and how to optimally sequence therapies for patients with tumors harboring actionable alterations , using patient cases to illustrate key principles .
Agricultural soil is a major sink for microplastics , which accumulate as a consequence of plastic mulching , wastewater irrigation , and the application of organic materials containing plastic residues as soil amendments . Soil organisms like earthworms are sensitive to microplastic exposure . However , a global regulatory gap currently exists regarding small plastic fragments ( < 2 mm ) in agricultural soils , and there is limited information on the influence of size-dependent microplastics on the direct cellular immune responses of earthworms , particularly under in vitro conditions . In this paper , we conducted an in vitro investigation of the cytotoxicity of polyethylene microplastics in Eisenia fetida coelomocytes , which revealed size-dependent differences in phagocytosis . Coelomocytes engulfed 85% of small polyethylene microplastics ( 1-10 microm ) through phagocytosis , but there was negligible phagocytosis of larger polyethylene microplastics ( 20-27 microm ) . Cell viability was 6-7% when coelomocytes were exposed to 1-10 microm and 20-27 microm-sized microplastics , significantly less than the 94% viability of coelomocytes in the untreated control . This finding highlights distinct cytotoxic pathways triggered by different microplastic size : small microplastics ( 1-10 microm ) accumulating in cells , whereas larger microplastics ( 20-27 microm in this study ) appear to cause frustrated phagocytosis , causing inflammation or cellular damage or death .
Hydrogen sulfide ( HS ) holds a distinct role in cell biology . Its level is intricately linked to the homeostasis of the biological environment , underscoring the significance of developing techniques capable of detecting HS in biological systems . A single probe that offers versatility across different detection techniques opens opportunities for advancements in sensing HS in various fields . A nitronaphthalimide derivative , NMO prepared using a simple synthetic protocol , has been studied as an electrochemical , colorimetric , and turn-on fluorescence probe for HS . NMO displayed a detection limit of 95 mM and 36 mM in the UV-visible and colorimetric studies , respectively , whereas the fluorometric and square wave techniques confirmed lower detection limits of 4 muM and 24 mM , correspondingly . Further , the real-time imaging of HEK293T cells using NMO during stress-induced autophagy is demonstrated .
In the context of endovascular intervention , robot assistance provides improved instrument navigation , safety , and ergonomics compared to traditional surgical approaches . However , a significant challenge with these interventions is the lack of tactile feedback for surgeons , which is crucial for precise instrument manipulation . This paper introduces a novel concept for a ferrofluid-based haptic feedback system designed to potentially address this gap in robot-assisted endovascular surgeries . Leveraging the unique properties of ferrofluids , which alter their viscosity under magnetic fields , this system aims to mimic the tactile sensations that are otherwise lost in robotic surgeries . The study presents the development and validation of a ferrofluid-based system integrated within the CathBot , a robotic platform for endovascular procedures . The system utilizes ferrofluids in a teleoperated setup to provide real-time , intuitive feedback about instrument positioning , potentially enhancing surgical accuracy and safety . Experiments were conducted to evaluate the properties of the ferrofluids and their interaction with magnetic fields to create a responsive feedback mechanism . Results from structural experiments , force evaluations , and user studies indicate that ferrofluids have the potential to effectively providing tactile feedback through controlled magnetic fields , improving the surgeon ' s ability to detect and respond to contact points within the vasculature . Despite some challenges with fluid control and system integration , the preliminary outcomes are promising . The potential improvements include refining the feedback mechanism to better mimic natural tactile sensations and further integrating this technology with existing robotic systems to enhance operational efficiency and patient safety .
Neddylation , as a type of post-translational modification , plays a key role in cancer development . However , the biological characteristics and clinical prognosis value of Neddylation-related genes ( NRGs ) signatures in clear cell renal cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) remain undetermined . Here , we identified two subtypes of NRGs in ccRCC based on TCGA data and constructed a NRGs risk signature ( NRGS ) . Survival analysis , ROC curves , and nomograms showed that NRGS was an important predictor of prognosis in patients with clear cell renal cell carcinoma . We further revealed important correlations between NRGS and clinicopathological features , gene mutations , drug sensitivity , and immune cell infiltration . High NRGS indicates a poorer prognosis for kidney cancer , but higher remission rates with immunotherapy . Drug sensitivity also varies across risk groups . UBB was identified as a hub gene for NRGS and was downregulated in ccRCC , which is associated with poor prognosis . In conclusion , this study provides strategies for predicting prognosis and individualizing treatment for ccRCC .
Biosensors are essential tools for detecting and analyzing various elements of human biology . This study introduces an innovative circular-shaped photonic crystal fiber ( PCF ) with a hexahedron core for the precise detection of blood components . The sensor ' s performance evaluated using COMSOL Multiphysics software . The finite element methods ( FEM ) is applied to solve Maxwell ' s equations and perform simulations across a terahertz ( THz ) frequency range from 0 to 0 THz . This comprehensive investigation focuses on optimizing several important optical parameters , including relative sensitivity ( RS ) , confinement loss ( CL ) , effective mode area ( EMA ) , and birefringence , etc . for enhancing the detection of various blood components . The Optical sensor is constructed by Topas as cladding material . The sensor demonstrates exceptional performance with RS of approximately 02% for glucose , 48% for plasma , 30% for white blood cells ( WBCs ) , and 04% for red blood cells ( RBCs ) at an operational frequency of 20 THz . Thus the proposed sensor can provide reliable and accurate measurements across different blood components in advanced biomedical applications .
ATAC-seq ( assay for transposase-accessible chromatin using sequencing ) enables high resolution mapping of chromatin accessibility , providing critical insights into gene regulatory mechanisms in neuroscience research . This protocol presents an optimized approach for applying ATAC-seq to neural tissues and cells , addressing the unique challenges of preserving chromatin integrity in these delicate samples . We detail the key steps of tissue processing , nuclear isolation , transposition reactions , and library preparation specifically adapted for neural applications . The method requires minimal starting material ( 20 , 000-50 , 000 cells ) while maintaining high sensitivity for detecting regulatory elements involved in neural development , plasticity , and neurological disorders . This tailored protocol facilitates robust investigation of neuroepigenomic regulation in diverse experimental contexts .
OBJECTIVES : IKZF1 is a key regulator of lymphocyte differentiation , and its alterations are associated with increased risk and poor outcomes in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( ALL ) . This study examines the association of IKZF1 rs4132601 polymorphism and Delta4-7 somatic deletion with the susceptibility to ALL while also analyzing their molecular implications through bioinformatics . METHODS : This case-control study was conducted on 58 pediatric patients diagnosed with ALL and 150 healthy controls . Genotyping for the IKZF1 rs4132601 variant was performed by PCR followed by sequencing , while the Delta4-7 deletions were identified using multiplex PCR . Bioinformatics analyses were used to calculate the difference in free energy of hybridization for each wild-type vs . the variant allele and analyze potential disruptions in putative miRNA-binding sites of IKZF1 3 ' UTR and changes in RNA secondary structure . RESULTS : The presence of the rs4132601 G allele was significantly associated with a reduced risk of ALL development [OR ( 95%ci ) , 36 ( 19 , 69 ) ] , and a strong association with the Delta4-7 deletion was noted [RR ( 95%ci ) , 33 ( 57-69 ) ] . The rs4132601 polymorphism disrupts miRNA binding sites , particularly miR-1261 , miR-524-3p , and miR-525-3p , potentially impairing post-transcriptional control of IKZF Bioinformatics analyses further indicate that the G allele stabilizes the RNA secondary structure , which hinders normal IKZF1 post-transcriptional regulation and promotes leukemogenesis . DISCUSSION : Our study underscores the association between the rs4132601 polymorphism and Delta4-7 deletion and heightened risk of pediatric ALL . We favor the notion that the rs4132601G allele contributes to leukemogenesis by affecting miRNA-mediated regulation and RNA structural stability . These findings support the potential of IKZF1-targeted , miRNA-based therapies in pediatric ALL .
BACKGROUND : In the present study , the synergistic effects and mechanism of recombinant viral vector-mediated co-expression plasmids stat1 and stat3-siRNA on glioma were investigated in vivo and in vitro . METHODS : Co-expression plasmids for stat1/stat3-siRNA were constructed and packaged into lentivirus and adenovirus for cell and animal experiments . Real-time PCR and Western blot analyses were used to detect the expression of STAT1 and STAT3 at gene and protein levels in U251 cells . CCK-8 , TUNEL , flow cytometry , and cell scratching assays were performed to detect the therapeutic effect of the co-expression plasmid stat1/stat3-siRNA on glioma in vitro . U251 glioma cells were injected into nude mice to observe therapeutic effect of stat1/stat3-siRNA . Transcriptome sequencing was utilized to further explore the possible mechanism . RESULTS : Treatment of glioma cells and xenograft animal model with the co-expression plasmid stat1/stat3-siRNA led to a significant increase in STAT1 and a marked decrease in STAT3 expression at both mRNA and protein expression levels . Compared to the single-gene stat1 and stat3-siRNA groups , stat1/stat3-siRNA group demonstrated a more pronounced promoting apoptosis of U251 , but cell viability and migration , as well as reduced tumor growth in nude mice were not significant . Transcriptome sequencing results indicated that the modulation of multiple nodes within the FOXO signaling pathway may represent the main mechanism by which co-expression of lenti-stat1/stat3-SiRNA induces U251 cell apoptosis . CONCLUSIONS : The co-expression plasmid stat1/stat3-siRNA significantly induces apoptosis more effectively than individual stat1 and stat3-siRNA constructs . The potential mechanism involves the alternation of multiple nodes in the FOXO signaling pathway .
PURPOSE : Massive Hemorrhage Protocols improve outcomes for adults with severe hemorrhage , yet only 65% of Ontario hospitals had implemented one by In response , a Massive Hemorrhage Protocol toolkit was developed and disseminated province-wide in This study compares Massive Hemorrhage Protocol adoption and content in Ontario hospitals in 2023 versus 2018 using a pre- and post-toolkit rollout survey . METHODS : A 98-question survey was emailed to transfusion medicine laboratory directors or their delegate at 159 hospitals in 2023 , 2 years after a provincial Massive Hemorrhage Protocol toolkit rollout that included a 1-day virtual symposium . Results were compared with the 2018 survey containing 82 identical core questions using Chi-square test , Fisher exact test , and Wilcoxon rank-sum nonparametric tests for quantitative data , and content analysis for qualitative data . RESULTS : The 2023 survey achieved a 100% response rate ( n = 159 ) ; most respondents ( n = 156 ) were transfusion staff . Hospitals with a Massive Hemorrhage Protocol increased significantly from 65% ( n = 150 ) in 2018 to 77% ( n = 159 ) in 2023 ( p = 02 ) . Small transfusion hospitals ( < 5000 red blood cell units transfused/year ) saw an increase in Massive Hemorrhage Protocol adoption from 60 to 74% ( p = 02 ) . By 2023 , 95% ( n = 159 ) of hospitals had/were implementing a Massive Hemorrhage Protocol . However , gaps in alignment to evidence-based recommendations remained , including hypothermia monitoring ( missing in 25% of Massive Hemorrhage Protocols ) tranexamic acid dosing ( missing in 19% ) , and quality metric tracking ( missing in 55% ) . Pediatric content was absent in 45% of Massive Hemorrhage Protocols in health centers caring for children . CONCLUSION : The provincial Massive Hemorrhage Protocol toolkit ' s dissemination was feasible and associated with increased adoption in Ontario hospitals . Two-years post rollout , 77% of provincial hospitals have Massive Hemorrhage Protocols in place . Opportunities remain to align contents with evidence-based recommendations and expand to remaining hospitals . This strategy could guide other jurisdictions to improve Massive Hemorrhage Protocol adoption and harmonize practices .
PURPOSE : In the present study , we aim to identify novel molecular targets for sensitizing Breast cancer stem cells ( BCSCs ) to common antitumor treatments . MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) play key roles in pivotal cellular processes . Therefore , modulating the expression of these miRNAs may lead to increased sensitivity of BCSCs to current treatments or overcome their therapeutic resistance . Due to their pivotal roles in the regulation of apoptosis ( via BCL2 ) and chemoresistance ( via ABCG2 ) and their differential expression in BCSCs ( compared to non-BCSCs ) , miR-34a and miR-328 were selected for analysis . METHODS : BCSCs were propagated and characterized . Then , the expression levels of miRNAs , which are associated with treatment resistance ( miR-21 , -34a , -328 , -128 , -200c , Let-7i ) , were quantified in BCSCs and non-BCSCs before and after treatment with doxorubicin ( DOX ) and radiation . BCSCs were subsequently transduced with recombinant lentiviruses that contained miR-34a or miR-328 to sensitize these cells to DOX- and radio-treatment , respectively . The effects of miR-34a or miR-328 overexpression on apoptosis induction after irradiation or DOX treatment were assessed by flow cytometry analysis . RESULTS : Ectopic expression of miR-34a or miR-328 in BCSCs , respectively , decreased the BCL2 and ABCG2 expression levels compared to untreated cells . Furthermore , overexpression of miR-34a or miR-328 in BCSCs led to increased susceptibility to apoptosis induced by radiation or DOX treatment , respectively . CONCLUSION : It could be concluded that miR-34a or miR-328 could effectively increase radiation- or DOX-induced cell apoptosis by negatively regulating Bcl-2 or ABCG2 expression levels in BCSCs , respectively . Hence , ectopic expression of these miRNAs could sensitize BCSCs to irradiation and DOX treatment .
TRNA-derived fragments ( tRFs ) are tiny non-coding RNAs that control gene expression and immunological responses . Initially , the tRFs were thought to be only a byproduct of Transfer RNA ( tRNA ) degradation . Recent studies highlighted their role in autoimmune diseases like type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) , inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) , rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , sjogren ' s syndrome ( SS ) and systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) . The tRFs can influence the gene expression that are potentially involved in autoimmune diseases . The tRFs can alter immune cell function and influence the pathways that lead to autoimmune diseases . This review examines how tRFs impact immune system regulation , such as interactions with messenger RNAs ( mRNA ) , inhibition of apoptosis , and immune cell development . Dysregulation of this leads to the progression or severity of autoimmune diseases . In addition , the potential of tRFs as biomarkers for autoimmune diseases and their targets of novel therapeutic interventions . However , this area is still in its infancy and needs more research to understand the role of a wide range of tRFs in autoimmune diseases .
L-asparaginase is an important enzyme used in the pharmaceutical and food industries . Nowadays , bacterial species represent the main source of microbial synthesis for L-asparaginase . But studies aimed at improving production yields and new methods that use various microbes to expand the scope of application for the generated enzyme are also necessary for industrial manufacturing . This study focused on the isolation of Bacillus paralicheniformis AUMC B-516 and the optimization of L-asparaginase production under submerged fermentation . The enzyme was purified and characterized , followed by an evaluation of its cytotoxic effects against the MCF-7 human breast cancer cell line . The results revealed potent anticancer activity , highlighting the potential application of the purified enzyme in cancer therapeutics . Bacillus paralicheniformis AUMC B-516 was utilized for the biosynthesis of L-asparaginase ( 4 U/mL ) after 48 h in the presence of 2% glucose and 0% L-asparagine at 35 degrees C and pH Two-step chromatography ( DEAE-cellulose and Sephacryl S200 HR ) achieved a 12-fold purification , resulting in an enzyme specific activity of 6 U/mg . For pure L-asparaginase that contained L-asparagine , the Km and Vmax values were 22 x 10 ( -2 ) mM and 75 micromol/min , respectively . Quantitative assessment of DNA fragmentation in MCF7 cells treated with B . paralicheniformis B-516 ' pure L-asparaginase was performed ( 2 +/- 36% ) and the drug doxorubicin ( 9 +/- 93% ) were significantly greater than those in the negative control cells ( 9 +/- 83% ) . MCF-7 cells treated with 1000 , 500 , 250 , 125 , 5 , or 25 microg/mL B . paralicheniformis AUMC B-516 ' pure L-asparaginase showed considerable cytotoxicity , with an IC of 3 microg/mL . Biochemical analyses revealed significant increases in aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) activities , while blood glucose , other electrolyte levels , and indicators of renal function remained unchanged . These findings highlight B . paralicheniformis AUMC B-516 as a promising source of L-asparaginase for future biotechnological and pharmaceutical applications .
BACKGROUND : Extensive research has delved into the nexus between necroptosis and immunity , yet its impact on the immunological microenvironment of periodontitis remains elusive . Therefore , the study aims to elucidate the role of necroptosis in shaping this particular microenvironment . RESULTS : We examined the differential expression of necroptosis genes in healthy and periodontitis samples , analyzing their correlations with infiltrating immunocytes , immune responses , and the human leukocyte antigen ( HLA ) gene . Distinct necroptosis-mediated expression patterns were identified , along with genes associated with the necroptosis phenotype . Notably , 37 necroptosis genes were dysregulated , leading to the development of a seven-necroptosis classifier that accurately distinguished periodontitis from healthy samples . The findings reveal a profound association between necroptosis and the immunological microenvironment , evidenced by the positive correlation between ZBP1 and MLKL expression with plasma cells , the negative correlation between TNFRSF1B and ZBP1 with resting dendritic cells , and the modulation of BCR signaling and TGF family receptor activity by ZBP1 and MLKL . Furthermore , we uncovered a positive correlation between ZBP1 and HLA-C expression and a negative correlation between HSPA4 and HLA-A expression . The analysis identified two distinct necroptosis expression patterns , each characterized by unique immune features . Among the 5272 genes associated with the necroptosis phenotype , 339 genes were linked to immunity , their biological functions centering on immunocyte regulation . CONCLUSION : This study underscores the significant role of necroptosis in shaping the immunological microenvironment of periodontitis , offering novel insights into the pathogenesis of this condition and paving the way for potential therapeutic strategies for periodontitis and its systemic comorbidities .
OBJECTIVE : Low-dose interleukin 2 ( IL-2 ) administration has been shown to selectively modulate regulatory T ( Treg ) cell abundance and alleviate the progression of systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) . IL-2 level could be indicator of low-dose IL-2 usage in SLE patients . However , current methods for IL-2 detection are generally not sensitive to be used in clinic . This study aims to establish flow cytometry-based IL-2 detection as a feasible approach in determining IL-2 in peripheral blood of SLE patients . METHODS : Flow cytometry was used to quantify the relative mean fluorescence intensity ( MFI ) of IL-2 in CD3 ( + ) T cells and other lymphocyte subsets in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( PBMCs ) from a cohort of 134 SLE patients and 112 healthy controls ( HC ) . Correlations between IL-2 MFI and clinical or laboratory parameters in SLE patients were also investigated . RESULTS : MFI of IL-2 represented IL-2 expression in CD3 ( + ) T cells . IL-2 MFI was significantly lower in SLE patients compared to the HC group and negatively associated with anti-ribosomal protein antibodies , erythrocyte sedimentation rate ( ESR ) , and blood urea . Conversely , it was positively correlated with IgA and hemoglobin . These associations with IgA , hemoglobin , ESR , and blood urea remained significant after adjusting for age and disease duration . IL-2 level was also positively correlated with the relative abundance of Th1 , Th2 , and Th17 cells . Furthermore , MFI of IL-2 recovered with effective treatment in SLE patients . CONCLUSIONS : MFI of IL-2 serves as a feasible marker of IL-2 , which is significantly decreased in SLE patients and recovered with treatment , suggesting its potential for assessing short-term disease status and treatment response in SLE patients . Key Points * IL-2 MFI can be used to estimate IL-2 expression level in SLE patients . * IL-2 MFI is significantly reduced in SLE patients . * IL-2 MFI can serve as a marker for monitoring SLE activity and short-term status .
Anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy is recommended as standard of care for patients with extensive stage small cell lung cancer ( ES-SCLC ) ; however , there are no reliable biomarkers guiding patient selection and the survival benefit of PD-L1 inhibitors in the overall population is limited . In this study , we retrospectively analyzed a total number of 61 cases of ES-SCLC who underwent anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy . Patient demographic characteristics and laboratory findings were processed for univariate and multivariate analysis . Subgrouping of SCLC was performed on IHC platform using antibodies against ASCL1 , NEUROD1 and POU2F The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) of ES-SCLC was evaluated by CD8 + T cell infiltration , granzyme B production and PD-L1 expression . We found limited efficacy of defined variable factors conferring therapeutic outcomes of anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy in patients with ES-SCLC . Intriguingly , there was a profound difference in TME and response to anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy when classifying SCLC into A/N/P/I subgroups . Although accounted for a small proportion of SCLC , the SCLC-P and SCLC-I subtypes manifested as T cell-enriched " hot " tumor and elicited more favorable response to immunotherapy , whereas the SCLC-A and SCLC-N subgroups were T cell-absent " cold " tumor . There was also a significant difference in progression free survival and overall survival across these subsets . Moreover , we found the SCLC-P and SCLC-I tumors revealed features of low neuroendocrine ( NE ) differentiation and showed clinicopathologic features overlapping with the SCLC non-NE lineage . These findings may aid clinicians to select ES-SCLC patients who were more likely to gain higher response rate and longer survival to anti-PD-L1 immunotherapy . Revisiting SCLC according to A/N/P/I subtyping and NE/non-NE differentiation is a reliable approach to guide therapeutic strategy in patients with ES-SCLC .
Human topoisomerase 3beta ( TOP3B ) is a potential molecular therapeutic target for cancer and viral infections . A high-throughput differential cell viability assay using colon cancer cell lines was developed to identify natural product modulators of TOP3B-associated cancer cell viability . The assay identified an organic extract of the plant Centratherum punctatum as having cytotoxic activity . Seven new furanoheliangolides , centratherolides A-G ( 1-7 ) , along with two known analogues ( 2 , 3-epoxybutyryloxy ) -goyazensolanolide and goyazensolide , were isolated . Compounds 1 , 8 , and 9 exhibited selective cytotoxic activities against the TOP3B-knockout ( TOP3B-KO ) human colon carcinoma HCT116 cells compared with the wild-type HCT116 cells ( TOP3B-WT ) . The challenging absolute configuration determination of the flexible chiral side chains in selected analogues ( 1-4 and 8 ) was resolved by combined approaches , including synthesis of chemical standards , DFT ECD calculation , and chiral HPLC analysis . Application of this elucidation methodology to a commercial sesquiterpene lactone clarified a contradiction in the stereochemical assignments reported for centaurepensin/chlorohyssopifolin A and 17-epi-chlorohyssopifolin A . FAU - Khong , Quan T
This study investigated the effects of prenatal exposure to pequi oil and 17alpha-ethinylestradiol ( EE2 ) on the histomorphometry and receptor expression ( androgen receptor ( AR ) and estrogen receptor alpha ( ERalpha ) in gerbil ovaries ( Meriones unguiculatus ) during aging . Experimental groups included : control , vehicle ( mineral oil ) , EE2 : 15 microg/kg/day from gestational days 18-22 , EE2/Pe : EE2 from days 18-22 and 300 mg/kg of pequi oil from days 18-26 , and Pe : pequi oil only , via gavage . Female offspring were euthanized at 12 months , and ovaries were collected , processed histologically , and sectioned . Histological sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin to analyze the superficial epithelium height and the tunica albuginea thickness . Immunohistochemistry for AR and ERalpha was performed , and the percentage of positive nuclei for these receptors was quantified in the theca interna , granulosa cells within follicles , and the interstitial gland . Data were analyzed using analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) , Tukey ' s , and Kruskal-Wallis tests . The data revealed a significant decrease ( p < 05 ) in the thickness of the tunica albuginea in the EE2 group , whereas this thickness was increased in the EE2/Pe and Pe groups . Epithelial height was lower in the EE2 group and higher in the EE2/Pe group . No significant changes in AR immunoreactivity were observed . In multilaminar follicles , ERalpha immunostaining was elevated in granulosa cells in the Pe group and in theca cells of the EE2 group . Additionally , the interstitial gland in the Pe group showed an increase in ERalpha expression . Pequi oil exposure upregulated ERalpha more markedly than AR during folliculogenesis and in interstitial cells , suggesting endocrine-modulating potential and relevance for ovarian regulation during aging .
BACKGROUND : Atherosclerosis , a major cause of global mortality , involves the transformation of macrophages into foam cells , which is a key pathological process . This study aims to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that contribute to foam cell formation and the progression of atherosclerosis . METHODS AND RESULTS : We performed a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis of transcriptome data to identify differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) associated with atherosclerosis . Using the human acute monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1 , we established in vitro models of macrophages and foam cells to simulate the atherosclerotic microenvironment . Functional studies were conducted using siRNA-mediated knockdown , real-time PCR , Western blotting , and immunofluorescence imaging . Our results showed that ATP8B2 was significantly down-regulated in atherosclerotic foam cells . The downregulation of ATP8B2 led to impaired lysosomal membrane fusion , evidenced by an increase in CD63-positive compartments without a change in CD63 protein levels . Additionally , under starvation conditions , there was a significant accumulation of autophagosomes , indicating a defect in the autophagy-lysosomal pathway . CONCLUSIONS : This study , for the first time , demonstrates that the downregulation of ATP8B2 exacerbates atherosclerosis by disrupting lysosomal membrane fusion , leading to lipid accumulation and foam cell formation . These findings provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and suggest that ATP8B2 could be a potential therapeutic target for the prevention or treatment of this disease .
Mania-like episodes are neuropsychiatric disturbances associated with bipolar disorder ( BD ) . Autophagic flux disturbance evolved as one of the molecular mechanisms implicated in mania . Recently , Dapagliflozin ( DAPA ) has corrected autophagic signaling in several neurological disorders . Yet , no endeavours examined the autophagic impact of DAPA in mania-like behaviours . This study aimed to investigate the effect of DAPA on disrupted autophagic pathways in a mouse model of mania-like behaviour . Mania-like behaviour was induced through paradoxical sleep deprivation ( PSD ) using the multiple-platform method for a duration of 36 h . Mice were divided into three groups , with DAPA ( 1 mg/kg/day , orally ) administered for one week . Behavioural assessments were conducted on the 7th day . DAPA mitigated anxiety-like behaviour in the open field test and improved motor coordination and muscle tone in the rotarod test . Mechanistically , DAPA activated hippocampal autophagy-related markers ; liver kinase B1/AMP-activated protein kinase ( LKB1/AMPK ) pathway , autophagy related gene 7 ( ATG7 ) , and microtubule-associated protein light chain 3II ( LC3II ) . This was associated with reduced levels of the autophagosome receptor p62 protein , which subsequently enhanced GABA ( A ) receptor-associated protein ( GABARAP ) , facilitating the surface presentation of GABA ( A ) receptors . Additionally , DAPA upregulated the GABA ( B ) receptor R2 subunit through trophic factors such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor ( GDNF ) . Furthermore , DAPA mitigated elevated serum stress hormones and restored the balance between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines in both cortical and hippocampal tissues . These findings highlight the role of autophagic flux modulation by DAPA and its therapeutic potential in mitigating mania-like behaviours .
BACKGROUND : Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) is the causative agent of COVID- The accessory proteins of SARS-CoV-2 have been reported to attune host immune responses and viral pathogenicity . We have studied the effect of SARS-CoV-2 accessory proteins ORF3a and ORF6 on the expression pattern of miRNAs and their impact on cell signaling pathways in human lung epithelial cells . METHODS AND RESULTS : The miRNA expression profiling of human lung epithelial cells revealed a subset of 14 and 19 differentially expressed miRNAs ( DEMs ) in response to SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6 , respectively . Target prediction tools and subsequent bioinformatic analysis revealed the involvement of DEMs in key signaling pathways like PI3K/AKT , TNF , MAPK , TGF-beta , and NF-kappaB , as a bystander effect of SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF The target genes were validated using real-time PCR and immunoblotting techniques . The results demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6 exploit host cellular miRNAs such as hsa-miR-101-3p , hsa-miR-4455 , hsa-miR-10b-5p , hsa-miR-940 , and hsa-miR-4483 , etc . to modulate the key cellular signaling pathways like NF-kappaB , TGF-beta , Ras , IL-17 , MAPK , and TNF signaling pathways . CONCLUSIONS : The present study demonstrates that SARS-CoV-2 ORF3a and ORF6 modulate the miRNA expression pattern in human lung epithelial cells . ORF3a exploits miRNAs to trigger a pro-inflammatory response , while ORF6 antagonizes IFN signaling via miRNA dysregulations to help SARS-CoV-2 in evading the host ' s immune response .
OBJECTIVES : To determine the capability of dynamic contrast-enhanced ( CE- ) perfusion area-detector CT ( ADCT ) for detecting pathological structural changes in stage I non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) patients . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Sixty-three consecutive stage I NSCLC patients with progressive fibrosing interstitial lung disease ( PF-ILD ) underwent dynamic CE-perfusion ADCT analyzed by dual-input maximum slope ( DMS ) methods for total , pulmonary arterial and systemic arterial perfusion ( TP ( DMS ) , PAP ( DMS ) and SAP ( DMS ) ) maps , surgical treatment and pathological examination . Multicentric ROIs were then placed over sites assessed as normal lung , pulmonary emphysema , GGO or reticular pattern without traction bronchiectasis , reticular pattern with traction bronchiectasis and honeycombing in the resected lung . Next , an analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) followed by Tukey ' s honest significant difference ( HSD ) multiple comparison test was performed for a comparison of each of the perfusion parameters for five groups . Finally , discrimination accuracy for evaluation of lung parenchymal change was compared for all indexes and combined methods . RESULTS : PAP ( DMS ) s of abnormal lungs were significantly lower than that of normal lungs ( p < 0001 ) . SAP ( DMS ) s of normal or emphysematous lungs were significantly lower than those of others ( p < 0001 ) . SAP ( DMS ) of GGO or reticular pattern without traction bronchiectasis was significantly lower than that for reticular pattern with traction bronchiectasis and honeycombing ( p < 0001 ) . Discrimination accuracy of combined perfusion index was significantly higher than that of each index ( p < 0001 ) . CONCLUSION : Dynamic CE-perfusion ADCT is useful for detecting pathological structural changes in stage I NSCLC patients with PF-ILD . KEY POINTS : Question Can dynamic first-pass contrast-enhanced perfusion matrices evaluate parenchymal lung changes and disease severity of parenchymal diseases in stage I non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) patients ? Findings Perfusion indexes differentiated significantly among normal lung , emphysema , GGO or reticular pattern without traction bronchiectasis , reticular pattern with traction bronchiectasis and honeycombing and significantly improved discrimination accuracy by combined methods . Clinical relevance Dynamic first-pass contrast-enhanced perfusion area-detector CT has the potential to assess underlying pathologies and pulmonary functional changes in stage I non-small cell carcinoma patients with progressive fibrosing interstitial lung disease .
The role of angiogenesis in preeclampsia pathogenesis is widely studied ; however , despite the lymphatic vessels ' complementary role to the blood vascular system , studies on their morphology in the placenta and placental bed are lacking . In total , 87 placental bed specimens were utilized , which were grouped into normotensive pregnant ( n = 28 ) , early-onset preeclampsia ( n = 31 ) , and late-onset preeclampsia ( n = 28 ) , and further stratified by human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) status . Tissue was immunostained with podoplanin antibody to investigate whether HIV infection affects lymphangiogenesis . The lymphatic capillary density and luminal areas within the placental bed were morphometrically assessed . Lymphatic microvessel density and mean area/lumen in the preeclampsia group were higher and larger than in the normotensive group , respectively ( p = 01 and p = 001 ) . A correlation between blood pressure levels and lymphatic microvessel density was observed ( r >/= 272 ; p </= 032 ) . Significant differences were observed between the mean microvessel density of normotensive HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected groups ( 9 +/- 3 versus 5 +/- 8 , p = 01 ) and late-onset preeclampsia HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected groups ( 1 +/- 9 versus 8 +/- 7 , p = 01 ) . The mean area/lumen between normotensive HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected , and late-onset preeclampsia HIV-uninfected and HIV-infected groups were significantly different ( p = 03 and p = 001 ) . Small lymphatic capillaries were significantly abundant in late-onset preeclampsia HIV-infected ( p = 03 ) and normotensive HIV-infected ( p = 0001 ) groups compared with uninfected groups . Lymphatic capillary density and area/lumen upregulation was observed in the placental bed of HIV-infected women , with a positive correlation between maternal blood pressure and lymphatic microvessel density , potentially affecting birth weight in the preeclampsia group .
Cancer is one of the most dreaded diseases worldwide . Conventional treatments such as surgery , chemotherapy , and radiotherapy have limitations and adverse effects . Cancer immunotherapy and targeted therapies offer new treatment options . Parasite-based cancer therapy shows promise in fighting tumors . Some parasites have anti-cancer properties through multi-mechanistic strategies , with the molecular mimicry theory as a leading explanation for parasites ' anti-cancer effects . This study aimed to explore the existence of shared antigenic proteins between parasites ( Trichinella spiralis , Schistosoma mansoni , and Toxoplasma gondii ) and cancer cell lines ( MCF-7 human breast cancer and A549 human lung cancer ) . Polyclonal antisera against T . spiralis , S . mansoni , and T . gondii parasites were generated in rabbits . Antibody reactivity with extracts of MCF-7 and A549 cancer cells was detected using SDS-PAGE and immunoblotting . Results documented the molecular mimicry between parasites and cancers as it revealed cross-reactive bands when using T . spiralis antibodies against MCF-7 and A549 cancer cell extracts at approximate molecular weights of 70 and 35 kDa , and with S . mansoni antibodies at an approximate molecular weight of 80 kDa . Toxoplasma gondii antibodies neither reacted with MCF-7 human breast cancer nor A549 human lung cancer cell extracts . Results of this study could establish a foundation for subsequent investigation among a broad range of parasites for molecular mimicry with cancers . Identification , molecular characterization , and investigation of the anti-neoplastic activity of these cross-reactive antigens could shed light on new pathways for the potential development of a novel class of innovative cancer vaccine candidates and therapeutic antibodies of parasitic origin for cancer immunotherapy and targeted therapy .
Members of the INhibitor of Growth protein family ( ING1-5 ) function as epigenetic regulators by targeting different histone acetyltransferase ( HAT ) and histone deacetylase ( HDAC ) complexes to the H3K4Me3 mark of active transcription . The INGs recognize H3K4Me3 by specific interaction with their well-conserved plant homeodomains , and affinity can be increased by interactions between DNA and disordered regions within the ING proteins . They are classified as type II tumor suppressors since they are downregulated in numerous cancer types and knockout of ING family members results in tumorigenesis . ING4 targets the HBO1 HAT complex , which is known to affect acetylation of the H4 core nucleosomal histone , to affect local chromatin structure and knockout results in deficient innate immunity . Reports indicating roles in cell cycle regulation , tumor suppression , and apoptosis suggest that ING4 may be a promising target for cancer treatment by targeting pathways of innate immunity . Given the relatedness between ING4 and the closely related ING5 proteins , we have developed and characterized two mouse monoclonal antibodies to specifically recognize human and mouse ING4 , but not ING5 , to more accurately characterize ING4 levels by western , immunofluorescence and immunohistochemical assays . Using them , we show that ING4 differentially partitions between the nucleus and cytoplasm in different tissues and localizes largely to the cytoplasm of cells having a secretory role in different tissue types .
The immune checkpoint CD47 is highly upregulated in several cancers as an innate immune escape mechanism . CD47 delivers a " don ' t eat me " signal to its co-receptor signal regulatory protein alpha ( SIRPalpha ) , thereby inhibiting phagocytosis . Blocking the CD47-SIRPalpha axis is a promising immunotherapeutic strategy against cancer . However , early trial data has demonstrated on-target off-leukemia toxicity . In addition , the ubiquitous expression pattern of CD47 might contribute to an antigen sink . In this study , we combined low-affinity CD47 checkpoint blockade and specific tumor targeting in a multivalent and multifunctional antibody construct to prevent CD47-related toxicities . First , we established a local inhibitory checkpoint monoclonal antibody ( LicMAb ) by fusing two N-terminal extracellular domains of SIRPalpha to a full-length anti-human mesothelin ( MSLN ) -IgG1 antibody , a well-described tumor-associated antigen in epithelial ovarian cancer ( EOC ) and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) . Next , we evaluated the SIRPalpha-alphaMSLN LicMAb for mediating a tumor-restricted immune response as observed by antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity ( ADCC ) and phagocytosis ( ADCP ) . Our data validates CD47 and MSLN as highly upregulated targets expressed on various solid cancer entities , particularly EOC . We show tumor-specific binding and CD47 blocking by the SIRPalpha-alphaMSLN LicMAb even in the presence of healthy CD47-expressing cells . Furthermore , the LicMAb induces NK-cell-mediated cytotoxicity and improves phagocytosis of EOC and PDAC tumor cells . Moreover , cell death in EOC-derived organoids was specifically LicMAb-driven . Hence , the SIRPalpha-alphaMSLN LicMAb combines a tumor-restricted blockade of the CD47-SIRPalpha axis with a specific antitumor response while preventing on-target off-tumor toxicities . Our data supports the multifunctional SIRPalpha-alphaMSLN LicMAb as a promising approach to treating solid tumors .
BACKGROUND : In eukaryotic cells , N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) is the most prevalent RNA methylation modification and plays a fundamental role in regulating diverse biological processes through the modulation of non-coding RNA ( ncRNA ) expression and activity . The role of m6A modification in developing rheumatic diseases is crucial but remains inadequately studied . METHODS : Characterized by pain and inflammation , rheumatic diseases like rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , osteoarthritis ( OA ) , ankylosing spondylitis ( AS ) , and systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) are autoimmune disorders . Recent findings emphasize the importance of m6A modifications and non-coding RNAs in the biological processes underlying rheumatic diseases . RESULTS : This review elucidates the fundamental concept of m6A modification and the associated research methodologies . Subsequently , it systematically consolidates modern knowledge on the influence of m6A regulators and m6A modification-related ncRNAs on rheumatic diseases , incorporating perspectives on traditional Chinese medicine interventions . CONCLUSIONS : Offering a comprehensive overview of m6A-related ncRNAs in the context of rheumatic diseases , this review proposes new therapeutic avenues by targeting m6A modification pathways .
Bacterial superantigens are potent immune activators that trigger T cell proliferation and intensive release of cytokines , leading to toxic shock syndrome . Also , they impair host immune responses , increasing bacterial carriage and transmission . Several studies proposed that superantigens can induce regulatory T ( Treg ) cells , which may suppress immune responses against bacterial infection . However , the mechanism of Treg cell induction by superantigens is still elusive . We here demonstrated that streptococcal pyrogenic exotoxin A ( SPEA ) promoted human CD4 ( + ) CD25 ( + ) Foxp3 ( + ) T cell induction in a dose- and time-dependent manner and the induction required antigen-presenting cells ( APCs ) . SPEA-induced CD4 ( + ) CD25 ( + ) T cells could suppress allogeneic T cell proliferation and IL-2 secretion . Flow cytometric analyses demonstrated high expression of TNFR2 on SPEA-induced CD4 ( + ) CD25 ( + ) Foxp3 ( + ) T cells . Blocking the interaction between TNF- and TNFR2 reduced SPEA-induced CD25 ( + ) Foxp3 ( + ) Treg cells . Our present study suggests a mechanism that the TNF- and TNFR2 axis is required for the induction of human CD4 ( + ) CD25 ( + ) Foxp3 ( + ) Treg cells by SPEA , which implicates a potential strategy to enhance the clearance of Group A streptococcus infection through reducing Treg cell induction by the inhibition of TNFR2 signaling .
Liver metastasis remains the predominant cause of mortality in patients with colorectal cancer ( CRC ) . Nevertheless , the mechanisms underlying the initiation of colorectal cancer liver metastasis remain poorly elucidated . During the metastatic process of CRC cells from the primary site to the liver , we performed time-resolved analyses and identified a subset of tumor cells spatially located in the primary tumor and temporally distributed in the early stages of liver metastasis . These cells were termed liver metastasis-initiating cells ( LMICs ) . LMICs exhibit high stemness , low proliferation , active interaction with surrounding stromal components , and a close association with liver metastasis . Notably , we found significant interactions between cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) and LMICs via the SEMA3C-NRP2 receptor-ligand pair . Further in vivo and in vitro experiments confirmed that CAF-secreted SEMA3C could bind to the NRP2 receptor , which activates the MAPK pathway and promotes colorectal cancer liver metastasis . Our findings suggest potential therapeutic strategies for the early prevention of colorectal cancer liver metastasis . FAU - Zhang , Yuyuan
A major challenge for HIV type 1 ( HIV-1 ) cure is the presence of viral latent reservoirs . The " Shock & Kill " strategy involves the combined use of latency reversal agents ( LRA ) and antiretroviral treatment ( ART ) to reactivate HIV-1 latent reservoirs , followed by elimination of infected cells . However , current LRAs are insufficient in fully reactivating the latent reservoirs . Therefore , investigation on novel HIV-1 latency regulators will be crucial to the success of HIV-1 cure research . Here , we identify bromodomain-containing protein 9 ( BRD9 ) as an HIV-1 latency regulator . BRD9 inhibition induces HIV-1 latency reactivation in T cell lines , human resting memory CD4 ( + ) T cells , and PBMCs derived from people living with HIV-1 ( PWH ) on ART . BRD9 inhibition , gene depletion , and protein degradation consistently reactivate HIV-1 latency . Moreover , BRD9 inhibition synergizes with BRD4 inhibition in inducing HIV-1 production . Mechanistically , BRD9 binds to HIV-1 LTR promoter and competes with HIV-1 Tat protein for binding to the HIV-1 genome . Additionally , our integrated CUT&RUN DNA sequencing , transcriptomics , and pharmacological analysis revealed downstream host targets of BRD9 , including ATAD2 and MTHFD2 , that modulate HIV-1 latency . FAU - Luk , Tsz-Yat
The range of e-cigarette flavors has driven consumer interest while raising concerns about potential health risks . However , the toxicological impact and chemical composition of flavored e-liquids remain poorly characterized . This study investigates cytotoxicity differences between tobacco- and non-tobacco-flavored e-liquids and identifies key compounds contributing to toxicity through chemical correlation analysis . We assessed the cytotoxicity of 100 e-liquids ( 50 tobacco-flavored , 50 non-tobacco-flavored ) using IC values in NCI-H292 cells and selected representative samples for genotoxicity evaluation . Three component categories-principal constituents , organic acids , and cooling agents-were analyzed , alongside correlations between specific compounds and cytotoxicity . Our findings revealed that non-tobacco-flavored e-liquids exhibited significantly higher cytotoxicity than tobacco-flavored variants , with considerable variation across different flavors and nicotine concentrations . Among non-tobacco flavors , tropical fruit and melon varieties induced the greatest cytotoxicity . Genotoxicity analysis showed that while tobacco-flavored e-liquids ( 2 x to 1 x IC ) did not cause significant DNA damage , certain non-tobacco flavors ( 2 x to 1 x IC ) triggered pronounced DNA damage . Correlation analysis identified N , 2 , 3-trimethyl-2-isopropylbutamide ( WS-23 ) , benzoic acid , and nicotine as negatively correlated with IC values , with WS-23 displaying the strongest association . Further in vitro validation confirmed that WS-23 ( 0-4 mg/mL ) induces DNA damage and elevates reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) levels in a dose-dependent manner . These findings highlight the need for more rigorous investigation and regulatory oversight of flavored e-liquids to mitigate potential health risks .
The endothelial ENaC ( EnNaC ) is mainly responsible for maintaining the mechanical properties of the endothelial cell surface , the sensitivity to the shear forces of the streaming blood and thus for vascular function . The correlation between EnNaC surface expression , the dynamics of the actin cortex , the mechanical stiffness , and nitric oxide release indicates a close structure-function relationship . Mechanical flexibility of the endothelial surface has been associated with proper vascular function , while chronic stiffening leads to endothelial dysfunction and the so-called ' stiff endothelial cell syndrome ' ( SECS ) . With the help of atomic force microscopy ( AFM ) -based nanoindentation and immunofluorescence staining in vitro and ex vivo , we investigated the underlying cellular mechanisms and signalling pathways of EnNaC-dependent endothelial behaviour . We were able to show that the interaction between EnNaC and the cortical cytoskeleton is mediated by the small GTPases RhoA , Rac1 , and the Arp2/3 complex . The functional inhibition of EnNaC by the drugs amiloride and benzamil led to membrane removal of the channel within minutes . Furthermore , we could observe an involvement of mineralocorticoid receptor , SGK1 and Nedd4-2 in regulation of endothelial cell stiffness . Our study contributes further insights on complex regulation of EnNaC and elucidates its interaction with the actin cytoskeleton , which could be central to its role as a key regulator of vascular function in health and disease .
PURPOSE : As one of the most prevalent primary brain tumors , glioblastoma ( GBM ) is characterized by its severe malignancy and extremely poor prognosis . Recent studies have demonstrated that targeting anoikis and malignancy showed impressed efficiency for treatment in a wide range of solid tumors , however , relevant research on GBM still remains unclarified . METHODS : In this study , genes related with malignancy and anoikis of GBM were identified by utilizing the Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) , the Chinese Glioma Genome Atlas ( CGGA ) and the Molecular Signatures Database ( MSigDB ) . Subsequently , the role of the key gene was validated via proliferation , invasion and migration experiments both in conditions with and without attachment . Moreover , RNA sequencing analysis was employed to reveal further mechanisms . RESULTS : Here , Type V collagen alpha 1 ( COL5A1 ) was identified as a critical gene associated with anoikis and poor outcomes . Additionally , COL5A1 knockdown induced significant reduction in malignancy of GBM both in vitro and in vivo . Moreover , cell anoikis was remarkable enhanced by reduced expression of COL5A1 after low-attachment cell culture . Mechanically , RNA sequencing analysis revealed that the activity of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway was diminished following COL5A1 knockdown , which indicated that COL5A1 reduced anoikis via regulating Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway thus promoted malignancies of GBM cells . CONCLUSION : These findings demonstrated the novel evidence that COL5A1 serves as an essential regulatory factor influencing both anoikis and malignancy of GBM cells by regulating Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway , indicating that COL5A1 could be a novel prognosis-related biomarker and potential therapeutic target for GBM .
Intracerebral hemorrhage ( ICH ) is a highly fatal form of stroke for which there are limited effective treatments . Cuproptosis , a newly discovered type of programmed cell death , has not yet been investigated in relation to ICH . Thus , the main goal of our study was to investigate the involvement of cuproptosis-related genes ( CRGs ) in predicting the early outcomes of ICH . We used datasets GSE228222 and GSE200575 from the Gene Expression Omnibus ( GEO ) database to identify and analyze differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) between ICH samples and control samples from mice . From this analysis , seven cuproptosis-related DEGs ( CuDEGs ) were identified : pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 component subunit alpha ( Pdha1 ) , glutaminase ( Gls ) , dihydrolipoamide dehydrogenase ( Dld ) , pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 component subunit beta ( Pdhb ) , dihydrolipoamide S-acetyltransferase ( Dlat ) , metal regulatory transcription factor 1 ( Mtf1 ) , and solute carrier family 31 member 1 ( Slc31a1 ) . Pathway enrichment analysis connected these genes to metabolic pathways , while immune cell infiltration analysis revealed increased macrophages and naive CD8 T cells alongside reduced NK resting cells and CD4 T cells in ICH samples . Verification through qRT-PCR and immunohistochemistry demonstrated a lower expression of CuDEGs in ICH samples . Of particular note , Gls , a gene significantly linked to both cuproptosis and immune regulation , exhibited reduced expression , possibly reflecting a protective response to limit glutamate production and mitigate neuronal damage . In summary , Gls emerges as a promising target for improving ICH outcomes by regulating cuproptosis and immune activity . This research provides novel insights into the molecular processes involved in ICH and suggests potential therapeutic approaches .
Androgenetic alopecia ( AGA ) is the most common form of hair loss , affecting a significant portion of both men and women . Despite the availability of various treatments , challenges such as limited efficacy , ongoing treatment requirements , side effects , and high costs persist . We sought to evaluate the efficacy and safety of erbium lasers , specifically erbium-doped yttrium-aluminum-garnet ( Er : YAG ) and erbium : glass lasers , in the management of AGA . A comprehensive search of PubMed/Medline , Web of Science , and Ovid-Embase databases was conducted until November 18th , 2023 , adhering to PRISMA guidelines . Clinical studies involving Er : YAG or erbium : glass lasers for AGA treatment were included . A total of 12 studies recruiting 344 patients were included in this study ; six of them investigated Er : YAG and six others evaluated erbium : glass laser . As a result , both erbium lasers were effective in treating AGA with respect to hair density , growth rate , and hair thickness . Erbium : glass lasers were particularly effective with combination therapies , such as those with minoxidil or Platelet-rich plasma . Er : YAG lasers also showed promising results , although some studies reported variability in patient satisfaction and aesthetic outcomes . The safety profile of erbium lasers was generally favorable , with minimal adverse effects . Erbium lasers , especially when used in combination with other therapies , show considerable potential in managing AGA . However , variability in treatment protocols and patient responses highlights the need for further research .
Acute kidney injury ( AKI ) , a clinical syndrome marked by high morbidity and mortality , remains a significant challenge due to the lack of effective therapeutic options . The accumulation of Fe ( 2+ ) and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in injured renal cells , which triggers ferroptosis , play a key driver in the pathogenesis of AKI . In this study , tetrahydroberberine ( THB ) , a natural product , was identified as a ferroptosis inhibitor that targeted the voltage-dependent anion channel ( VDAC ) . Through structural optimization , a series of THB derivatives were developed , among which 34a exhibited about 100-fold enhanced ferroptosis inhibitory activity . Moreover , 34a significantly reduced ROS , Fe ( 2+ ) and restored glutathione ( GSH ) below 20 nM . In vivo experiments confirmed that 34a effectively alleviated folic acid-induced AKI , accompanied by a reduction in key kidney injury markers . These results highlight the potential of 12-amino THB derivatives as novel ferroptosis inhibitors and provide promising therapeutic strategies for AKI treatment . FAU - Peng , Shengkuan
Photodynamic therapy has become a promising non-invasive method for the treatment of LSIL associated with HR-HPV infections . This literature review assesses the efficacy , safety , and clinical relevance of PDT for managing HPV-related cervical lesions . PDT employs photosensitizers , such as 5-aminolevulinic acid , which selectively accumulate in abnormal cervical tissues . When subjected to particular wavelengths of light , these agents become activated and produce reactive oxygen species , leading to the target elimination of particular cells . Numerous studies have documented the effectiveness of PDT with pathological regression rate improving to 79% , and the HR-HPV clearance rate increased to 75% . Beyond facilitating lesion regression , PDT also plays a significant role in eliminating persistent HR-HPV infections , which are a crucial element in the advancement of cervical dysplasia . Furthermore , the non-invasive nature of PDT presents a compelling alternative to traditional surgical approaches , which may compromise fertility and cause cervical stenosis . PDT is generally well-tolerated ; adverse reactions are typically mild and transient , including symptoms such as abdominal discomfort and increased vaginal discharge . Most notably , the fertility-preserving characteristics of PDT render it an optimal treatment choice , particularly for young women desiring to maintain their reproductive potential . While the existing data is promising , it is essential to conduct additional research to enhance treatment protocols , optimize dosages , and thoroughly assess the long-lasting impact of photodynamic therapy in the field of gynecology . By synthesizing existing evidence , this review supports the enhanced incorporation of PDT into clinical decision-making frameworks for the management of HPV-related LSIL .
A short-rod-shaped , obligate anaerobic , Gram-stain-positive bacterium isolated from the faeces of a pig was designated as the strain YH-ols2221 ( T ) . The analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence revealed that the isolate was most closely related to Olsenella phocaeensis DSM 103159 ( T ) , Olsenella urininfantis KCTC 25755 ( T ) and Olsenella absiana KCTC 25800 ( T ) with 6-7% similarities . The multi-locus sequence tree revealed that the isolate formed a cluster adjacent to O . absiana KCTC 25800 ( T ) . The average nucleotide identity and the digital DNA-DNA hybridization values for the isolate and the most closely related strains were 7-1% and 9-0% , respectively . The main fatty acids identified were C ( 14 : 0 ) , C ( 16 : 0 ) DMA and C ( 18 : 0 ) omega9c DMA . The cell wall contained the meso-diaminopimelic acid-based peptidoglycan . The end products of the fermentation were lactic acid and acetic acid . Given the chemotaxonomic , phenotypic and phylogenetic properties , YH-ols2221 ( T ) ( =KCTC 25801 ( T ) =NBRC 116679 ( T ) ) represents a novel taxon . The name Olsenella kribbiana sp . nov . was proposed . FAU - Bai , Lu
OBJECTIVE : The objective of the current study is to combat breast cancer-associated metastasis using paclitaxel ( PTX ) and tranilast ( TRA ) -loaded human serum albumin ( HAS ) Nanoparticles . SIGNIFICANCE : This combinatorial therapy using microtubule stabilizing agent PTX , along with TGFbeta inhibitor TRA . TRA may offer an improved therapeutic effect in breast cancer by inhibiting cell proliferation and metastasis . METHOD : Inspired by the remarkable anticancer properties of both drugs , they were encapsulated into HSA nanoparticles to enhance tumor site-specific drug accumulation and ensure sustained release over a prolonged period . The HSA nanoparticles were fabricated using the desolvation method and optimized using a Box-Behnken design ( BBD ) with a three-level , two-factor approach . Further , these nanoparticles were characterized using TEM , FTIR , XRD , and particle size . In vitro experiments were conducted using the MDA-MB-231 cell line , employing cell viability , cellular uptake , nuclear staining , scratch assay , and cell cycle analysis . KEY FINDINGS : In vitro release kinetics reveal sustained PTX and TRA release from HSA nanoparticles . Wound healing assay depicted improved anti-migratory activity of PTX-TRA-NPs ( 30nM-75muM ) . Furthermore , the novel combination treatment caused G2/M phase cell cycle arrest , as indicated by cell cycle analysis . CONCLUSION : HSA nanoparticles enhance the delivery and accumulation of hydrophobic drugs ( PTX and TRA ) in breast cancer cells , offering improved therapeutic outcomes . This combinatorial strategy permits further preclinical investigation for synergistic breast cancer management . FAU - Jain , Naitik
Electron transport materials ( ETMs ) are crucial for extracting and transporting electrons from the active layer to the cathode in organic solar cells ( OSCs ) . In this work , we designed a series of ETM candidates ( E1-E6 ) based on the experimentally synthesized ( N , N-dimethylamino ) propyl naphthalene diimide ( NDIN ) molecule by changing the nitrogen ( N ) atoms with boron ( B ) atoms at different positions . The electronic properties , electron transfer mobility , and interfacial properties were investigated using density functional theory ( DFT ) and time-dependent DFT ( TD-DFT ) . The computed results indicate that introducing boron atoms into side chains enhances electron mobility with more pronounced effects as the number of boron atoms increases , while inserting boron atoms into the core ring decreases the electron mobility . Importantly , the E4 molecule exhibits the most promising performance , where its electron mobility is about twice that of NDIN and the binding energy of E4 with the acceptor is approximately 40% higher than that of NDIN . We also constructed donor/acceptor/electron transport material ( D/A/E ) interfaces and found that the introduction of ETMs produces new charge transfer ( CT ) states in the low energy region . Compared to NDIN , the incorporation of E4 further expands the pathways for generating CT states , thereby enhancing exciton separation in the active layer and increasing the short-circuit current density ( J ( sc ) ) . This work not only provides valuable insights into future experimental research on ETMs but also offers guidance on the strategic incorporation of heteroatoms into ETMs for the rational design of high-efficiency OSC components . FAU - Yao , Shu-Pu
Most investigations of resin embedded biological samples by transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) have been performed in TEM bright-field mode where the electron beam transmits through the sample . Modern TEMs can also be used in scanning TEM mode ( STEM ) where the beam scans across the sample . The preferred detector for STEM mode is the high-angle annular dark-field ( HAADF ) detector . The aim of this study was to compare image quality of resin embedded biological samples such as yeast ( Saccharomyces ) , algae ( Chlorella , Haematococcus ) , plant leaves ( Nicotiana ) , human cells ( MCF7 ) , and animal tissue ( mouse liver and brain ) between TEM bright-field and STEM-HAADF mode . Generally , images taken in STEM-HAADF mode showed better image quality in terms of contrast , brightness , and signal-to-noise ratio . Samples of sections that did not receive postcontrasting with uranyl acetate or lead citrate appeared significantly less grainy . Specifically , STEM-HAADF mode resulted in significantly better image quality of algae cells , MCF7 , and liver cells that did not receive postcontrasting . Artifacts visible in TEM mode were absent in STEM-HAADF mode . Thus , we can conclude that STEM-HAADF mode has significant advantages when investigating resin embedded biological samples that have little contrast or sections that did not receive postcontrasting rendering postcontrasting of sections unnecessary .
Naive T cell activation requires both TCR and CD28 signals . The CARMIL2 cytosolic protein enables CD28-dependent activation of the NF-kappaB transcription factor via its ability to link CD28 to the CARD11 adaptor protein . Here , we developed mice expressing a mutation named Carmil2QE and mimicking a mutation found in human T cell malignancies . Naive T cells from Carmil2QE mice contained preformed CARMIL2QE-CARD11 complexes in numbers comparable to those assembling in wild-type T cells after CD28 engagement . Such ready-made CARMIL2QE-CARD11 complexes also formed in CD28-deficient mice where they unexpectedly induced most of the functions that normally result from CD28 engagement in a manner that remains antigen-dependent . In turn , tumor-specific T cells expressing Carmil2QE do not require CD28 engagement and thereby escape to both PD-1 and CTLA-4 inhibition . In conclusion , we uncovered the overarching role played by CARMIL2-CARD11 signals among those triggered by CD28 and exploited them to induce potent solid tumor-specific T cell responses in the absence of CD28 ligands and immune checkpoint inhibitors .
The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of a high-salt diet ( HSD ) , which is commonly found in Western countries , on the progression of glioma . Our research shows that the alterations in gut microbiota caused by an HSD facilitated the development of glioma . Mice fed an HSD have elevated levels of intestinal propionate , which accelerated the growth of glioma cells . We also find that propionate supplementation enhanced the response of glioma cells to low oxygen levels . Moreover , we identify a link between TGF-beta signaling , response to low oxygen levels , and invasion-related pathways . Propionate treatment increases the expression of HIF-1alpha , leading to an increase in TGF-beta1 production . Additionally , propionate treatment promotes glioma cell invasion through TGF-beta signaling . Our findings suggest that an HSD-induced increase in propionate plays a crucial role in glioma progression by facilitating invasion through the hypoxic response and TGF-beta signaling pathways , thereby establishing a significant connection between gut microbiota and the progression of glioma .
Two tetrasubstituted imidazoles , denoted as TSIm-1 and TSIm-2 , with flexible and rigid cores , respectively , displayed remarkable photophysical properties as well as aggregation-induced emission . TSIm-1 exhibited trace water detection in THF with an LOD of 03 wt% . Importantly , TSIm-1 and TSIm-2 both efficiently targeted lipid droplets ( LDs ) with high specificity in HeLa cells . These probes were further applied to monitor LD growth induced by oleic-acid-mediated lipid accumulation . FAU - Zafar , Mohammad Masood
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) can trigger a series of complex physiological responses , with iron overload and neuronal ferroptosis playing particularly pivotal roles . These processes exacerbate secondary brain injury and significantly deteriorate neurological function . To address this challenge , this study developed an innovative local drug delivery strategy : an injectable , post-traumatic microenvironment-responsive hydrogel . The hydrogel , composed of tannic acid ( TA ) and quaternized chitosan ( QCS ) , is designed to alleviate neurological deficits secondary brain injury following TBI through its anti-ferroptosis mechanism . In vitro , a ferroptosis model was established using HT22 cells treated with the ferroptosis inducer RSL-3 , demonstrating the hydrogel ' s antioxidant capacity in the TBI-like conditions . The results showed that the hydrogel significantly restored cell viability , reversed iron accumulation , alleviated lipid peroxidation , and restored mitochondrial function . Further in vivo experiments in the TBI model showed that the TA/QCS hydrogel not only effectively inhibited neuronal degeneration , reduced iron accumulation , and lipid peroxidation but also restored mitochondrial function in neurons . Additionally , the hydrogel significantly attenuated neuroinflammation by inhibiting the activation of microglia and astrocytes , thereby facilitating neurological recovery after TBI . This study offers novel insights into TBI management strategies aimed at preventing the progression of a secondary injury . FAU - Xu , Jing
Ferroptosis-mediated tumor intervention has recently been revealed to play multiple roles in biology . Real-time monitoring of ferroptosis progression is imperative for the immediate assessment of therapeutic responses and the adjustment of diagnostic regimens but challenging as well . Herein , we present an activatable probe ( DL-CL ) designed for NIR fluorescence visualization and differential assessment of tumor responses to ferroptosis . DL-CL features a hemicyanine skeleton that incorporates a chlorine atom and a methylparaben group , which are quenched by a dimethylthiocarbamate-responsive group . This design enables the activation of the probe ' s NIR signal specifically upon exposure to the ferroptosis-related biomarker hypochlorous acid ( HOCl ) . The rapid , highly sensitive , and specific response characteristics of DL-CL facilitate the real-time tracking of HOCl dynamics across various ferroptosis-triggering pathways in cells . Furthermore , DL-CL demonstrates its superiority in tumor identification , providing effective assistance in image-guided tumor resection and ferroptosis-mediated tumor therapy evaluation . The results reveal that increased levels of HOCl were captured following the ferroptosis combination treatment , showing a positive correlation with tumor growth inhibition . We anticipate that DL-CL may serve as a promising imaging tool for predicting the cancer therapeutic efficacy . FAU - Zhao , Guiling
Tin-based perovskite solar cells ( PSCs ) exhibit promising potential as viable alternatives to the prevailing lead-based PSCs , owing to their ideal bandgap and environmentally friendly nature . To address the challenges posed by the thick perovskite films required for narrow bandgap materials , we propose incorporating p-n homojunctions within the active layers . This approach not only enables a charge transport layer ( CTL ) -free cell structure to reduce manufacturing costs but also enhances the performance of PSCs with CTLs by facilitating efficient charge segregation . We initially emphasize the advantages of CTL-free PSCs and subsequently strive to optimize the performance of homojunction PSCs , encompassing a comprehensive analysis of influential factors such as the absorber layer thickness , doping concentration , defect density , carrier mobility , and electrode contacts . A power conversion efficiency of 07% was achieved for the CTL-free homojunction PSCs . Then various charge transport materials were incorporated to further enhance the performance of homojunction PSCs . Ultimately , a champion power conversion efficiency of 15% was achieved for the PSCs with CTLs . The present investigation contributes to the advancement of solar cell technology by shedding light on the potential of lead-free PSCs , as well as optimizing their performance for real-world applications . FAU - Farhadi , Bita
Clinical tools to guide treatment decisions in relapsed and refractory mantle cell lymphoma ( R/R MCL ) are limited . Moreover , the translational potential of circulating tumor DNA ( ctDNA ) remains largely unproven . We designed and applied panel-based duplex sequencing of ctDNA to study molecular determinants of response and outcome in 58 R/R MCL patients treated with venetoclax , lenalidomide , and rituximab . Genetic analysis revealed molecular predictors of response that were independent of clinical prognostic factors , with SMARCA4-mutated R/R MCLs responding to therapy , whereas TP53 mutations conferred resistance . Pretreatment ctDNA captured spatial heterogeneity , and its concentration was associated with multiple clinicopathological disease features and survival , independently of molecular predictors . Dynamic ctDNA assessment for minimal residual disease complemented clinical response evaluation and uncovered refractoriness in patients with molecular remission according to contemporary real-time quantitative PCR assay . Features of clonal hematopoiesis ( CH ) at baseline were associated with hematological toxicity during treatment and poor outcomes on follow-up . Positive selection of TP53-related CH during treatment did not compromise the specificity of ctDNA response analysis , and fragmentation signatures allowed distinction between MCL ctDNA and CH-bearing cfDNA . Taken together , we report novel features in MCL ctDNA that reveal new minimally invasive tools that could potentially transform clinical decision-making in R/R MCL .
Cell progenitor to progeny transitions depend on precise transcriptional mechanisms to adjust gene expression . The sterile alpha motif-containing 1 protein ( SAMD1 ) regulates a shift in transcriptional activity during embryonic stem cell exit from pluripotency . SAMD1 interacts with and facilitates the activity of the histone H3 lysine demethylating enzyme LSD SAMD1 is expressed throughout many biological systems , but its role in hematopoiesis is unknown . In human and mouse hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells , we tested the role of SAMD1 in hematopoiesis and erythropoiesis using loss-of-function approaches . SAMD1 promoted expression of critical drivers of hematopoiesis , including the GATA2 transcription factor , while opposing erythroid programs . Loss of SAMD1 in ex vivo differentiating cells increased erythroid and megakaryocyte differentiation and altered the landscape of histone H3K4 methylation genome-wide . Cohorts of SAMD1-repressed genes are linked to erythropoietic activities . SAMD1 expression promoted ERK signaling via SCF/Kit stimulation in progenitor populations . In erythroid precursor cells , SAMD1 co-occupies chromatin with LSD1 and GATA factors . Whereas SAMD1 downregulates H3K4me2 levels genome-wide , contributing to gene repression , SAMD1 also elevates transcription at select sites . To test Samd1 function in hematopoiesis , we performed competitive transplant experiments in mice . Samd1 knockdown hematopoietic stem cells ( HSCs ) contributed more to peripheral blood mononuclear cells versus control HSCs . Our results establish SAMD1 as a coordinator of H3K4 methylation and stem/progenitor activity in hematopoiesis and erythropoiesis .
Despite improvements in the diversity of the United States biomedical research workforce , individuals from different racial/ethnic groups remain underrepresented . Even though mentoring is critical for career advancement , underrepresented faculty have limited opportunities . Therefore , we evaluated a multi-pronged mentoring approach for early-stage underrepresented faculty trained in the Programs to Increase Diversity Among Individuals Engaged in Health-Related Research-Functional and Translational Genomics of Blood Disorders . The selection process involved a rigorous review of applications , considering factors such as academic potential , research interests , and commitment to diversity in biomedical research . This year-long training experience includes two Summer Institutes consisting of lectures , grant-writing workshops , and laboratory practicums . In addition , a Mentoring Committee , comprised of research , career development , and peer-mentors , was established . The national Coordination Core collected program evaluations , grants , publications , and academic promotion data . Since 2007 , PRIDE-FTG has trained 114 investigators , including 94 Black/African American investigators and 87 assistant professors ; 65 mentees ( 57% ) conducted research related to sickle cell disease . The primary outcome metric for PRIDE-FTG is the submission of an extramural National Institutes of Health or equivalent grant within two years of training completion . Seventy percent of 90 mentees achieved this metric and 4% was funded as principal investigators . Lastly , 55 mentees were promoted to higher academic ranks , and 90 mentees published 1 , 465 peer-reviewed manuscripts . Our data demonstrated the long-term impact of PRIDE-FTG training on the career advancement of early-stage underrepresented investigators . The success of this structured , mentored training program instills a sense of optimism about the future of diversity in our nation .
Electrochemical CO2 reduction ( ECO2R ) involves multi-proton electron transfer , characterized by sluggish reaction kinetics and challenges including high overpotential and subsequently poor stability . Facilitating proton transfer through rational catalyst design to reduce the applied potential enables effective and durable CO2 reduction . Herein , proton migration promotion strategy to accelerate the CO2 protonation and the overall ECO2R process was explored by Sn-based cyanamide catalysts . Catalysts with varying [NCN]2- content , from SnO to Sn2ONCN and SnNCN , were investigated to elucidate proton transfer mechanism of build-in [NCN]2- . The reversible structural transformation between [N=C=N]2- and [N identical withC-N]2- from [NCN]2- group achieves an efficient proton relay effect . More efficient CO2 conversion to HCOOH is achieved with a higher content of build-in [NCN]2- groups in structures . Among these catalysts , SnNCN showed a current density of 450 mA cm-2 at a low overpotential of 360 mV , with a maximum Faradaic efficiency ( FE ) of 4% for HCOO- production and a peak cathodic energy conversion efficiency ( ECE ) of 6% . Furthermore , it produced formate ( HCOO- ) continuously for over 110 h at 200 mA cm-2 and pure formic acid ( HCOOH ) solution for 192 h at 8 mA cm- This study provides a novel material and fresh perspective for the design of efficient ECO2R catalysts .
Inhibitors are the most severe complication of replacement therapy in hemophilia patients . Previous studies , along with our clinical observations , have identified distinct incidence rates and clinical manifestations of factor VIII ( FVIII ) and factor IX ( FIX ) inhibitors in patients with severe hemophilia A ( HA ) and severe hemophilia B ( HB ) . In order to explore different immune responses to FVIII and FIX in HA and HB patients and to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the varying clinical manifestations of these patients , we performed single-cell sequencing on peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) collected from five HA and five HB patients with inhibitors . After quality control , a total of 75 , 051 cells were clustered into 19 subsets . Transcriptome analysis revealed differences in the composition of lymphocyte subsets and the functional status of immune cells between the HA and HB groups . Additionally , immune repertoire analysis indicated variations in the diversity of B and T cell clones between the two groups . HA group exhibited a relatively higher proportion of B cells and more active B cells , whereas HB group demonstrated a higher proportion of T cells , with more active CD4+ T helper ( Th ) cells . Our study provides insights into the distinct biological processes underlying the distinct immune responses to therapeutic FVIII and FIX in HA and HB patients , as revealed through single-cell sequencing of PBMCs from hemophilia patients with inhibitors . The data generated will serve as a valuable resource for future research on how the immune system recognizes and initiates responses to antigens with varying molecular characteristics .
OBJECTIVE : There is a need for early detection of beta-cell decline in people with newly diagnosed ( ND ) type 1 diabetes . The gold standard mixed-meal tolerance test ( MMTT ) is an invasive and time-consuming procedure that requires participants to travel to clinical sites . We assessed the feasibility of measuring dried blood spot ( DBS ) C-peptide levels collected at home as an alternative to the MMTT to detect early beta-cell decline . RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : Individuals with ND type 1 diabetes were recruited within 6 weeks of diagnosis as part of the INNODIA cohort . They collected finger-prick DBS C-peptide data at home , both while fasting and 60 min after a liquid meal . At 12 months , an MMTT was conducted to measure the area under the curve ( AUC ) of venous C-peptide . RESULTS : Data of 292 people were analyzed ( mean age 7 years ; range 2-8 years ) . The median number of DBS card pairs per participant was 5 ( interquartile range = 2 , 9 ) over 12 months . The slopes of stimulated DBS C-peptide levels in the first 6 months significantly predicted venous MMTT AUC C-peptide and peak C-peptide levels at 12 months ( P < 01 ) . The models were adjusted for simultaneous glucose levels , age , and baseline fasting C-peptide level . However , the 6-month fasting DBS C-peptide slope did not predict 12-month MMTT AUC C-peptide . CONCLUSIONS : Home DBS C-peptide assessment is a feasible method to monitor beta-cell function in ND type 1 diabetes . The early prognostic utility of stimulated DBS C-peptide highlights its potential for optimizing trial design . However , further validation is needed to confirm its reliability and broader applicability .
Purpose To explore the feasibility of a new technetium 99m-labeled nanobody ( ( 99m ) Tc-antifibroblast activation protein nanobody [AFN] ) with high affinity to fibroblast activation protein for noninvasive monitoring of fibroblast activation after myocardial infarction . Materials and Methods ( 99m ) Tc-AFN was prepared by site-specific labeling . Dynamic SPECT/CT imaging from 5 to 4 hours after injection of ( 99m ) Tc-AFN was performed in male C57/BL6 mice at 8 weeks of age with the ischemia-reperfusion ( IR ) injury on day 7 ( n = 4 ) . Furthermore , IR mice underwent ( 99m ) Tc-AFN SPECT/CT imaging on postoperative days 3 , 7 , 14 , and 28 at 1 hour following injection . Ex vivo SPECT/CT imaging , blocking imaging , and biodistribution studies were performed on day 7 and compared with a ( 99m ) Tc-labeled fibroblast activation protein inhibitor ( FAPI ) -04-derived radiotracer ( ( 99m ) Tc-HFAPi ) . Preclinical evaluation of ( 99m ) Tc-AFN in a swine model of myocardial infarction was performed on day Biodistributions and quantitative results were compared between groups using analysis of variance and t tests . Results The accumulation of ( 99m ) Tc-AFN at the infarcted region was most clearly visible at 1 hour following injection . ( 99m ) Tc-AFN uptake on SPECT/CT images in the infarcted myocardium was visible from day 3 , and maximum uptake occurred on day At 1 hour after injection , the ( 99m ) Tc-AFN and ( 99m ) Tc-HFAPi uptake ratios ( means +/- SDs ) were 23 +/- 82 versus 34 +/- 21 ( P = . 05 ) , respectively , for infarcted to noninfarcted regions and 08 +/- 49 versus 89 +/- 42 ( P = . 34 ) for infarcted region to blood , respectively . Immunohistochemical examinations confirmed that maximum myocardium fibrosis and FAP expression was observed on day ( 99m ) Tc-AFN uptake in the infarcted myocardium was also clearly visualized with the swine model of myocardial infarction . Conclusion This study demonstrated the potential of ( 99m ) Tc-AFN for noninvasive monitoring of fibroblast activation after myocardial infarction , which may be a new option for clinical imaging . Keywords : Fibroblast Activation Protein , Nanobody , ( 99m ) Tc-AFN , ( 99m ) Tc-HFAPi , Myocardial Infarction Supplemental material is available for this article . ( c ) RSNA , FAU - Ai , Zixuan
PURPOSE : This study reviews how ionizing radiation ( IR ) induces alternative splicing ( AS ) in non-tumor and tumor cells under both ex vivo and in vivo irradiation conditions . The relevance and limitations of IR-induced AS in identifying potential biomarkers are highlighted for two main applications : biodosimetry and radiotherapy . CONCLUSIONS : Radiation promotes alterations in AS , which may differentially affect the response in both tumor and non-tumor cells . This response can occur in genes that change their overall expression as well as in those that remain unaltered in response to IR . Although cis-regulators modulate AS , trans-regulators like splicing factors are more involved in the IR response . Variants of key genes involved in the DNA damage response ( DDR ) are regulated in non-tumor cells while they are often deregulated in tumor cells favoring radioresistance . Identifying IR-induced AS variants could enhance the sensitivity of biodosimeters for dose estimation and biomarkers for radiosensitivity , offering potential strategies to personalize radiotherapy and improve outcomes . New and advanced sequencing technologies will allow variant identification important for the field of radiobiological research . FAU - Leberle , Jeronimo
Most patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) may obtain remission upon induction chemotherapy , but relapse is frequent and associated with poor survival . Previous prognostic models for outcomes after relapse lacked analysis of comprehensive molecular data . A validated prognostic model integrating clinical , cytogenetic , and molecular variables may support treatment decisions . We studied 943 AML patients who relapsed after first-line intensive induction treatment in a development cohort ( HOVON-SAKK ) . A random survival forest algorithm was used to evaluate the association of clinical parameters , cytogenetic abnormalities , and molecular variables at diagnosis with overall survival ( OS ) . Relapsing patients ( n=377 ) who were enrolled in the NCRI-AML18 trial were used for model validation . In the development cohort , the median age at relapse was 58 years , and patients were classified as 2022 ELN favorable ( 22% ) , intermediate ( 31% ) , and adverse ( 48% ) risk . One-third underwent allogeneic transplantation in first complete remission . Variable selection yielded nine variables significantly associated with 1-year OS , including relapse-free interval , age , white blood cell count , mutated TP53 , FLT3-ITD , core-binding factor abnormalities , t ( v ; 11q23 ) /KMT2A-rearranged and complex/monosomal karyotype , which were assigned points according to their estimated hazard ratios . Three prognostic groups were defined with distinct 1-year OS in both development ( favorable : 51+/-3% , intermediate : 29+/-3% and poor : 14+/-2% , respectively ) and validation cohorts ( 51+/-4% , 26+/-5% and 14+/-3% , respectively ) . Independent validation confirmed the improved accuracy in predicting outcomes for AML patients in first relapse . The revised AML relapse model improved on previous classification systems for prognostication of outcomes after first AML relapse . It provides stratification which might support tailoring second line treatment .
Despite advances in vaccination and the use of antiviral treatments , patients with hematologic malignancies , including B-cell lymphoproliferative disorders , are particularly vulnerable to SARS-CoV-2 infection . The recent introduction of bispecific antibodies ( BsAbs ) in the treatment algorithm of relapsed/refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma ( B-NHL ) , has raised concerns regarding their impact on COVID-19 outcomes . This study aimed to evaluate the impact of SARS-CoV-2 infection on treatment outcomes in patients receiving BsAbs . We assessed the severity of COVID-19 disease and SARS-CoV-2 serostatus , with antibody titers measured before , during , and after BsAbs administration . A total of 109 patients with B-NHL treated with BsAbs from March 2020 to January 2023 were included . SARS-CoV-2 infection was observed in 56 patients ( 51% ) , with 36% experiencing prolonged viral shedding , causing therapy delays in 78% of patients and permanent discontinuations in 19% . Regarding COVID-19 severity , 36% of patients presented moderate , 20% severe , and 12% critical disease . Seven patients ( 13% ) died due to COVID-19 pneumoniae . Similar to observations with anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies , BsAbs were associated with negative anti-S serostatus for at least 6 months after treatment completion . Importantly , this lack of seroconversion was linked with severe disease and increased mortality . These findings underscore important considerations for the management of patients receiving BsAbs .
BACKGROUND : Terminal duct lobular unit ( TDLU ) involution has been linked to decreased breast cancer ( BCa ) risk in some studies . Whether the number/activity of breast stem cells ( SCs ) in non-cancerous tissue may influence TDLU involution is unknown . We examined the associations of CD44 , CD24 , and ALDH1A1 SC markers with TDLU involution . METHODS : We included 309 cancer-free women with biopsy-confirmed benign breast disease . Immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) was performed using tissue microarrays . For each core , IHC expression was assessed using a semi-automated software as % of positively stained cells for each marker . Eight TDLU involution measures were assessed with an established computational pathology algorithm . Generalized linear regression was used to examine the associations of each marker ( >/=10% vs . <10% ) with each TDLU involution measure ( log-transformed ) , adjusted for BCa risk factors . RESULTS : CD44 was positively associated with acini counts per non-adipose tissue area ( epithelial : beta=307 , 95% Confidence Interval [CI 072 , 542] ; stromal : beta=249 [ 005 , 494] ) and median acini density ( epithelial : beta=127 [025 , 229] ; stromal : beta=143 , [037 , 249 ) . Epithelial ALDH1A1 was positively associated with median acini density ( beta=161 , [045 , 278] ) and stromal ALDH1A1 was positively associated with median acini counts per TDLU ( beta=145 , [018 , 273] ) . CONCLUSIONS : Higher CD44 and ALDH1A1 expressions in epithelial and stromal regions were associated with lower TDLU involution . IMPACT : We present the first epidemiological evidence on association of SC markers with TDLU involution . FAU - Yaghjyan , Lusine
INTRODUCTION : A gastrosplenic fistula ( GSF ) is a pathologic connection between the spleen and stomach that can lead to life-threatening complications . A GSF can arise spontaneously but is often secondary to a variety of etiologies . Most commonly , GSFs arise from gastric or splenic non-Hodgkin diffuse large B-cell lymphomas ( DLBCL ) . Only 46 cases of GSFs have been published to date , and due to its rarity extensive literature review is insufficient for characterization of GSFs . CASE REPORT : This case discusses a patient with intermittent abdominal pain and weight loss , which led to the diagnosis and treatment of a GSF and DLBCL . The patient later went into remission for his DLBCL but succumbed to respiratory failure from a secondary abdominal-pleural fistula formation . Gastrosplenic fistulas have the potential to cause fatal , massive , upper gastrointestinal hemorrhages , infections , other fistulas , or esophageal obstructions . A delay in diagnosis corresponds with a higher morbidity and mortality ; thus , prompt detection and treatment are imperative . The management of GSFs is complex and requires a multidisciplinary approach to care . CONCLUSION : In this report we review GSFs in the emergency care setting with the goal of increasing awareness to facilitate their diagnosis . FAU - Lecher , Mackenzie
Lithium metal batteries ( LMBs ) are the most promising candidates for next-generation high-energy-density storage systems , but they suffer from destructive dendrite growth . Here we integrate cutting-edge molecular weaving technology into the fabrication of artificial solid electrolyte interphases ( ASEI ) to realize dendrite-free and long-lasting LMBs . Specifically , weaving polymer chains into a two-dimensional ( 2D ) plane endows polymer network crystals with high strength and elasticity , and creates angstrom-level meshes for Li-ion transport and uniform deposition . As a result , related Li plating experiments remained stable at an unprecedentedly high current density of 5 mA cm- Furthermore , full cells with " woven " ASEI exhibited superior long-term cycling performance compared to existing 2D materials , achieving a capacity retention of 98% over 270 cycles under stringent testing conditions .
Mitochondria are an indispensable component of every plant cell and are inextricably linked to many vital functions . One of their key characteristics is that they have their own genome . This genome , although greatly reduced , encodes several essential genes . While this has been known for decades , until recently it has not been possible to study the mitochondrial genome and its function in detail due to the lack of suitable tools for forward and reverse genetics . This is partly due to the low mutation rate in mitochondria and the lack of methods for direct transformation . A breakthrough came with the use of nuclear encoded transcription activator-like effector ( TALE ) nucleases ( TALENs ) for targeted mitochondrial mutagenesis . One of the first applications was to show unambiguously that certain ORFs were causal for cytoplasmic male sterility ( CMS ) . This had previously been beyond our technical capabilities . TALENs are suitable for all plant species amenable to nuclear transformation because they are protein-only and can be imported post-transcriptionally into the mitochondria . Unfortunately , TALEN mutagenesis in plant mitochondria often seems to be associated with large genomic rearrangements . DNA base editors , the latest addition to the toolbox , bypass these side effects and merely introduce point mutations . They are based on TALEs and could only be developed after the discovery of a cytosine deaminase that acts on double-stranded DNA . The possibilities for targeted modification of the mitochondrial genome in plants are developing rapidly . This article aims to show where we stand in this development and what we can expect in the near future .
Ornamental plants can generate higher economic value per unit area compared to traditional crops . Enhancing market share in the flower industry relies on cultivating varieties with exceptional ornamental traits . Petal size , a critical factor influencing flower shape and ornamental appeal , is a primary focus for horticultural breeding selection . In this article , we review recent advances in understanding the regulation of petal size in ornamental plants through analyzing various patterns of cell division and expansion underlying petal growth and the genes involved in the related regulatory paradigms . We further highlight the intricate network of petal size control affected by multiple phytohormones and discuss several open questions and strategies for breeding ornamental plants with desired petal size traits based on current findings .
beta-1 , 3-xylan , typically found in marine algae as a major cell wall polysaccharide , represents an overlooked pool of organic carbon in global oceans . Whilst our understanding of microbial catabolism of xylans has improved significantly , particularly from biotransformations of terrestrial plant biomass that are typically composed of beta-1 , 4-xylans , knowledge on how microbes utilize beta-1 , 3-xylan remains limited . Here , we describe the discovery of a complete pathway for beta-1 , 3-xylan catabolism and its regulation in a marine bacterium , Vibriosp . EA The pathway starts with the extracellular decomposition of beta-1 , 3-xylan by two beta-1 , 3-xylanases into beta-1 , 3-xylooligomers , which are mainly internalized by an ATP-binding cassette transporter . The substrate binding protein of this transporter has an L-shaped substrate binding pocket to preferentially bind beta-1 , 3-xylooligomers . Subsequently , two intracellular beta-1 , 3-xylosidases degrade beta-1 , 3-xylooligomers into fermentable xylose . The pathway is activated by a unique regulator with xylose being the effector . This beta-1 , 3-xylan catabolic pathway differs from that of beta-1 , 4-xylan catabolism in enzymes , transporters , and regulators . Bioinformatic analysis suggests that the beta-1 , 3-xylan catabolism pathway is not only prevalent in diverse marine bacteria and cosmopolitan human gut microbiota , such as Bacteroides , but also likely transferred horizontally from algae-degrading marine bacteria to the human gut .
Glycosylation is a biologically significant post-translational modification ( PTM ) of proteins that involves the covalent attachment of a sugar molecule ( a glycan ) to a peptide sequence , resulting in the formation of glycoproteins . Glycomics and glycoproteomics involve the complete mapping of glycans of a cell , tissue , or organism . Glyco-bioinformatics facilitates the exchange of glyco-specific information among students and researchers using computers . The need for glyco-bioinformatics tools is rapidly increasing because glycoproteins are increasingly attracting clinical attention due to the potential to help in the early diagnosis of diseases . Functional enrichment analysis is used to identify the functions of a set of genes and proteins . This report attempts to illustrate how freely available bioinformatics tools can be used as pedagogical approaches to study or teach protein glycation in diseases for biochemistry graduates who are interested in continuing their careers in glycomics and glycoproteomics .
BACKGROUND : Phosphatidylserine synthase ( PSS ) , localized in the mitochondrial membrane , synthesizes phosphatidylserine . In humans , mutations in Pss lead to Lenz-Majewski hyperostotic dwarfism , a disorder affecting growth and development . The effects of Pss mutations on the growth of Drosophila melanogaster are not fully known . Hence , this study was conducted to investigate the effects of Pss knockdown on the growth and development of D . melanogaster . RESULTS : Enterocyte ( EC ) -specific Pss knockdown resulted in reduced cell size in the gut via reduced Akt signaling . EC-specific Pss knockdown was associated with a decrease in gut size , a change in gut pH , and reduced food intake . These abnormalities affected normal nutrient metabolism in larvae , leading to decreased secretion of Drosophila insulin-like peptides . Consequently , the reduced systemic Akt signaling at the organismal level resulted not only in impaired gut growth but also in abnormal organismal growth and development . CONCLUSION : These findings highlight the significant role of the Pss gene in the growth and development of D . melanogaster .
Gut microbiota have been found to promote hypoxia-induced intestinal injury . However , the role of gut microbiota in high-altitude pulmonary edema ( HAPE ) , the preventive effect of synbiotic on HAPE , and the mechanisms by which they might work remain unknown . In this study , we aimed to investigate the role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of HAPE and to explore the underlying mechanisms involved . We performed a fecal microbiome analysis and found a significant decrease in intestinal Klebsiella and Escherichia-Shigella , along with a notable increase in intestinal Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus , as volunteers recovered from acute mountain sickness ( AMS ) . Gavage colonization with Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli induced plasma inflammation , increased plasma lysophosphatidylcholine ( LPC ) levels , and contributed to HAPE in rats at a simulated altitude of 6 , 500 m . Conversely , a synbiotic containing Bifidobacterium , Lactiplantibacillus , fructooligosaccharides , and isomaltose-oligosaccharides significantly reduced the severity of HAPE . Cellular experiments and molecular dynamics simulations revealed that LPCs can cause damage and permeability to human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell ( HPMEC ) and human pulmonary alveolar epithelial cell ( HPAEpiC ) monolayers under hypoxic conditions by disrupting cell membrane integrity . In addition , tail vein injection of LPCs promoted HAPE in mice at a simulated altitude of 6 , 500 m . In conclusion , this study describes a gut microbiota-LPCs/inflammation-HAPE axis , an important new insight into HAPE that will help open avenues for prevention and treatment approaches . IMPORTANCE : The role of the gut microbiota in high-altitude pulmonary edema ( HAPE ) is currently unknown . This study found that intestinal Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli contribute to HAPE by inducing inflammation and increasing lysophosphatidylcholine ( LPC ) levels under hypoxic conditions . Conversely , a synbiotic containing Bifidobacterium , Lactiplantibacillus , fructooligosaccharides , and isomaltose-oligosaccharides significantly reduced the severity of HAPE . Further investigation revealed that LPCs can cause damage and permeability to human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell ( HPMEC ) and human pulmonary alveolar epithelial cell ( HPAEpiC ) monolayers under hypoxic conditions by disrupting cell membrane integrity . These findings contribute to the understanding of the pathogenesis of HAPE and will benefit populations living at high altitude or traveling from low to high altitude . FAU - Sun , Xianduo
Candida albicans is a clinically significant fungal pathogen capable of adapting to diverse host environments , including steep oxygen gradients ranging from ~21% oxygen to anaerobic . The ability to withstand varied oxygen levels is paramount to establishing colonization and persisting in host niches , and oxygen deprivation can also augment antifungal resistance . In this study , we used RNA sequencing to compare the global transcriptomic profiles of two strains of C . albicans ( SC5314 and CHN1 ) grown purely anaerobically to those grown aerobically . In C . albicans SC5314 , we observed a strong induction of the alternative oxidase AOX2 and several genes encoding subunits of mitochondrial enzyme complexes I , II , and V , signifying a shift to alternative respiration . Consistent with the diminished ATP production from this process , there was a significant downregulation of genes associated with growth and metabolism , including histones and ribosomal proteins , as well as chitinases and other genes involved in cell wall remodeling . Interestingly , the anaerobic C . albicans cultures had decreased expression of candidalysin ( ECE1 ) and other virulence factors , contrasting with other studies reporting enhanced pathogenicity under oxygen deprivation . There were a greater number of significantly upregulated genes in C . albicans CHN1 compared to SC5314 ; however , most of the top 50 upregulated genes under anaerobic conditions were consistent between the two strains . The predominant difference in down-regulated genes between the two strains could be mapped to differences in hyphal transformation under aerobic conditions . Overall , our study provides a window into the molecular mechanisms of C . albicans adaptation between aerobic to anaerobic environments . IMPORTANCECandida albicans is a leading cause of fungal infections in humans , posing significant clinical challenges due to its remarkable adaptability and increasing antifungal resistance . Anaerobic environments can promote antifungal resistance , necessitating a deeper understanding of how C . albicans adapts to anoxia . While much research has been done to identify mechanisms underlying adaptation to hypoxia ( i . e . , low oxygen ) , this is the first study evaluating the global transcriptomic response of C . albicans to anoxia ( no oxygen ) . Here , we uncover key transcriptomic changes that enable C . albicans to survive in the absence of oxygen , which are distinct from those identified under hypoxic conditions . Our research addresses a gap in current knowledge that may be exploited for combatting antifungal resistance . FAU - Zeise , Karen D
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus ( PRRSV ) is an economically important pathogen for the global pork industry . Modified live virus ( MLV ) vaccines are widely used for PRRSV prevention and control . However , MLV vaccines can still infect hosts and replicate in the target cells , increasing the risk of virus recombination and reversion to virulence . Recently , a highly pathogenic PRRSV strain appeared in December 2024 , causing severe outbreaks on a PRRSV-negative pig farm in Yunnan , China . The isolated strain exhibited 4%-5% nucleotide similarity to the historical JXA1-R vaccine-derived revertant isolated in 2012 , despite the farm never using JXA1-R vaccines . Ten unique amino acid mutations confirmed that this strain was a revertant derived from JXA1-R vaccines , which reverted to cause an outbreak in 2012 and vanished for 12 years . IMPORTANCECurrently , there is a relative consensus that porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome modified live virus ( PRRS MLV ) has the highest protective efficacy against the genetically homologous virus , compared with commercially available killed vaccines or other kinds of vaccines under development . However , risks of virulence reversion remain in such live vaccines . This case reveals the unpredictable risks of live-attenuated vaccines . The findings underscore the inherent flaws in highly pathogenic PRRSV MLV vaccines , emphasizing the need for safer vaccine designs . The re-emergence of that revertant draws our attention to its source , and the similar mutation site compared with 12 years ago could indicate key nucleotide sites for the reversion of virulence of this strain . FAU - Wu , Weixin
Globally , there are six millions of Rangifer spp . , including both wild and semi-domesticated populations . Reindeer herding with Eurasian tundra reindeer ( Rangifer tarandus tarandus ) is central to the Fennoscandian Sami people . Commencing in 2018 , a novel disease presenting with periorbital lesions was reported in reindeer in multiple locations in Norway and Sweden , as individual cases and outbreaks . Lesions were also seen on the genitals , nostrils , and ears of affected reindeer , in combination with lethargy . Necropsy findings included lesions with crusts on the eyelids , vulva , and anus , along with moderately swollen lymph nodes , liver , and spleen . Histological examination of the eyelid lesions showed a disrupted epidermis with necrotic squamous epithelium and inflammation . Shotgun sequencing of samples from outbreaks yielded a partial draft genome of a virus related to Deerpox virus W-848-83 ( currently known as Cervidpoxvirus muledeerpox ) in genus Cervidpoxvirus . Cervidpoxviruses have previously only been detected in Capreolinae in North America . An in-house qPCR targeting the cervidpoxvirus virion core protein gene was designed and showed the presence of viral-specific DNA in multiple organs , with the highest load in skin lesions . RNAscope in situ hybridization detected viral transcripts in the epithelium of the eye lesions . Transmission electron microscopy analysis revealed the presence of intracytoplasmic poxvirus-like particles with characteristic morphology within the lesions . In vitro infection in Madin-Darby bovine kidney epithelial cells demonstrated cytopathic effect . It is unknown whether the emergence of this disease in semi-domesticated reindeer in Norway and Sweden is due to ecosystem changes facilitating altered disease dynamics , or if the virus has been recently introduced . IMPORTANCE : This study documents the first detection of a Cervidpoxvirus in Europe , causing disease in semi-domesticated reindeer in Norway and Sweden . It identifies the causative agent and describes the disease characteristics of this previously unknown condition in reindeer , advancing our understanding of how this virus impacts reindeer health and welfare . Given the cultural and ecological importance of reindeer herding in Fennoscandia , understanding this disease is crucial for safeguarding the livelihoods of Sami communities . Additionally , the study raises important questions about the role of ecosystem changes , climate-driven insect dynamics , and potential reservoir hosts in facilitating disease outbreaks . These findings underscore the broader implications of environmental change on animal health and highlight the need for continued research to mitigate risks posed by emerging infectious diseases ( EIDs ) . FAU - Nymo , Ingebjorg H
The gut and lung microbiota are associated with asthma . Osteopontin ( OPN ) is an important cytokine associated with several inflammatory diseases . The potential role of OPN in the asthma-associated microbiome remains poorly understood . Here , we investigated whether OPN could moderate asthma by affecting the gut and lung microbiota . Our results showed that compared with wild-type ( WT ) mice , Spp1 ( -/- ) mice exhibited immune cell infiltration in the lung , OVA-specific IgG1 , increased levels of Th2- and Th17-related inflammatory factors , and decreased levels of Th1-related inflammatory factors and forkhead box P3 ( FOXP3 ) expression , resulting in a Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg imbalance . In addition , gut structure was impaired , and expression of tight junction-related proteins was reduced in Spp1 ( -/- ) mice , which disrupted gut barrier function . Importantly , OPN-deficient significantly aggravated gut and lung microbiota dysbiosis in OVA-induced asthmatic mice . The results of high-throughput 16S rRNA sequencing demonstrated that OPN-deficient mice showed a substantial reduction in beneficial gut and lung bacteria ( Bacteroidetes , Lactobacillus , Allobaculum ) , and an OVA-induced increase in the abundance of bacteria associated with potentially pathogenic gut and lung ( Epsilonbacteraeota , Helicobacter , Desulfovibrio , Oscillibacter ) -associated bacteria was elevated in abundance . Allobaculum was negatively correlated with interleukin-4 and GATA-3 and was positively correlated with interferon gamma and FOXP Moreover , through fecal microbiota transplantation , we found that OVA-induced IgE and IgG1 levels were reduced in OPN-deficient asthmatic mice , Th1/Th2 and Th17/Treg balance was maintained , gut barrier function was improved , and microbiome changes in OPN-deficient mice were compensated for , with an elevated abundance of Allobaculum and reduced abundance of Desulfovibrio and Oscillibacter . We further discovered that OPN deficiency reduces FOXP3 expression and decreases Lactobacillus colonization through activation of the PD-1/PD-L1 pathway in the intestine and lung . The present study suggests that OPN may moderate OVA-induced asthma by modulating the gut and lung microbiota . IMPORTANCE : Osteopontin deficiency exacerbated asthmatic airway inflammation , an effect associated with microbiota dysbiosis , impaired intestinal barrier function , and increased PD-1/PD-L1 expression and thus decreased Treg cell function . The study provides clinicians with new insights into asthma mechanisms and can also lead to new ideas for asthma treatment . FAU - Huang , Jinli
Inland meltwater ponds are common throughout the dry valley region of Antarctica , with seasonal meltwater inputs driving their biogeochemistry . Here , we report the genomic sequences of eight environmental bacterial isolates covering three major phyla from Marr Pond , Taylor Valley , Antarctica . FAU - Smith , Heidi J
Some bacteria use acyl-homoserine lactone ( AHL ) signals in quorum sensing , a type of cell-cell communication . Here , we present " RefAHL , " an updated , curated collection of LuxI-type AHL synthases with their AHL products and associated metadata . RefAHL is publicly available as a community resource to help catalog LuxI-type diversity encoded in ( meta ) genomic data . FAU - Schaefer , Amy L
Mannheimia haemolytica ( Mh ) is a normal inhabitant of the upper respiratory tract of ruminants and is associated with bovine respiratory disease . Polysaccharide capsule and surface adhesins are suggested to function in adherence and colonization of M . haemolytica to the mucosa of the upper respiratory tract . M . haemolytica serotype 1 mutant strains containing deletions of either the capsule biosynthetic gene cluster ( cap ) or putative adhesin genes ( adh123 ) were created using a temperature-sensitive plasmid and tested for colonization in a calf challenge model . Two treatment groups were used in the study : Sham-Mh-BHV-1 ( SMB ; intranasal administration of uninfected cell culture lysate/supernatant [sham ; S] 4 days before intranasal M . haemolytica inoculation , and intranasal inoculation of bovine-herpesvirus-1 [BHV-1] 20 days post-Mh ) and BHV-1-Mh-Sham ( BMS ; intranasal inoculation of BHV-1 4 days before intranasal Mh inoculation and intranasal sham administration 20 days post-Mh ) . A mixture of wild-type M . haemolytica parent strain , cap , and adh123 mutants was included in the Mh inoculum . Animals were observed for clinical signs and nasal colonization for approximately 7 weeks . The adh123 mutant and parent strain colonized the nasopharynx , whereas the cap mutant was not detected after 1 day post-inoculation . The adh123 mutant colonized the nasopharynx at significantly higher levels ( P < 0001 ) compared to wild type . Higher colonization of adh123 was also found in palatine tonsils . These findings suggest a requirement of capsule in long-term colonization and an advantage for adh123 in colonization over the parent strain . IMPORTANCEUnderstanding the colonization dynamics of Mannheimia haemolytica is crucial for developing effective prevention and treatment strategies for bovine respiratory disease ( BRD ) , a significant cause of economic loss in the cattle industry . This study highlights the role of capsular polysaccharide and surface adhesins in nasopharyngeal colonization . These findings demonstrate that the deletion of putative surface adhesins leads to enhanced colonization compared to the wild-type strain , while mutants containing a deletion of the capsule biosynthetic gene cluster failed to establish long-term colonization . These results suggest that targeting bacterial adhesion mechanisms could influence bacterial persistence and immune response , offering potential avenues for controlling BRD . FAU - Goldkamp , Anna K
Standard treatments for EBV-associated malignancies , such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy , demonstrate limited efficacy in relapsed or refractory cases , underscoring an urgent need for innovative therapeutic strategies . Recent advances in immunotherapy-particularly EBV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes and dendritic cell vaccines-have shown promise for both treatment and prevention . Engineered T cell therapies , including T-cell receptor ( TCR ) and chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) approaches targeting EBV antigens such as LMP1 and gp350 , are progressing in clinical development . Compared to conventional intensive therapies , which often require prolonged administration and are associated with significant toxicity , cellular immunotherapy offers a favourable safety profile alongside robust in vivo T cell expansion and potent antitumor effects . Although preclinical and clinical trial results are encouraging , further refinement of therapeutic protocols is critical to enhance efficacy and improve access for diverse patient populations . In this review , we summarise the rationale for EBV-directed cellular therapies , outline their clinical applications to date , and discuss current limitations as well as emerging opportunities to optimise these strategies .
Olfactory sensory neurons ( OSNs ) in the olfactory epithelium ( OE ) are continuously replaced by neuroregeneration from basal stem cells . Acute inflammation destroys OSNs , causing hyposmia or anosmia , but leaves the basal stem cells intact . We previously found that ciliary neurotrophic factor ( CNTF ) is highly expressed in horizontal basal cells ( HBCs ) and the CNTF receptor is in globose basal cells ( GBCs ) , which are the actively dividing cells that normally replace dying OSNs . Here , we investigated the role of CNTF in basal stem cell proliferation/differentiation and smell function recovery following methimazole-induced acute inflammatory OE injury . Methimazole increased inflammatory markers , TNFalpha , IL-6 , and CD45 , and depleted OSNs in the OE at 3 and 5 days . Simultaneously , CNTF and the GBC marker Mash1 were upregulated , suggesting that HBCs produced more CNTF , as validated using primary HBC cultures , to promote GBC proliferation . Methimazole increased GBC proliferation , as shown by the number of BrdU-labeled GBCs in CNTF+/+ , but not in CNTF-/- littermate mice . Also , CNTF+/+ mice had higher levels of neuroregeneration and better smell function recovery than CNTF-/- littermates . This indicates that CNTF promotes GBC proliferation and promotes OE neuroregeneration and smell functional recovery . This study identifies the regenerative role of CNTF in HBCs and reveals the therapeutic potential to target CNTF signaling to improve olfactory neuroregeneration and functional recovery following injury .
The intricate interplay between host genes and intrahepatic microbes is vital in shaping the hepatic microenvironment . This study aims to elucidate how host-microbiota interactions contribute to the progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) . Hepatic gene and microbial profiles were analyzed from 570 samples across five cohorts , including 72 control , 124 nonalcoholic fatty liver ( NAFL ) , 143 Borderline , and 231 nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) samples . Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator penalized regression and sparse canonical correlation analysis were utilized to identify host-microbiota interactions and their function . Validation was performed using a bulk transcriptomic data set comprising 1 , 332 samples and a single-cell transcriptomic data set of seven samples . We observed stage-specific gene expression changes of disrupting energy metabolism and immune responses , alongside microbial shifts shaping the NAFLD microenvironment . Additionally , we identified 5 , 537 , 1 , 937 , 1 , 485 , and 2 , 933 host-microbiota interactions in control , NAFL , Borderline , and NASH samples , respectively . Escherichia coli and Actinomyces naeslundii dominated the interaction network in control but were replaced by Sphingomonadales and Sphingomonadaceae in disease stages from NAFL , preceding the transcriptomic tipping point observed in Borderline . In NASH , interactions significantly weakened , accompanied by the loss of mutualistic interactions between bacteria such as Bacillales , Ralstonia insidiosa , Sphingomonadaceae , and host mitophagy genes including SQSTM1 , OPTN , and BNIP3L . Single-cell data sets confirmed these interactions were co-localized in macrophages and monocytes in control , which shifted to hepatocytes and endothelial cells in NAFLD . Shifts in host-microbial interaction signal early microenvironment changes . Disturbed host-microbiota interactions impacting mitophagy can trigger a pro-inflammatory hepatic microenvironment , potentially driving disease progression . IMPORTANCEThis study integrated multiple cohorts to uncover fundamental and generalizable signals in the progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease . Key changes in both liver gene expression and microbiota were identified across disease stages , with microbial composition and interactions with host offering earlier insights into microenvironmental changes . Notably , host-microbiota interactions related to mitophagy , crucial in early stages , were destroyed in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis . This disruption may contribute to the worsening inflammation and disease progression . FAU - Yin , Wenjing
Synthetic biology aims to expand the genetic code by increasing cellular information storage and retrieval . A recent advance is the dTAT1-dNaM unnatural base pair , which is more photo- and thermostable than dTPT3-dNaM while maintaining high efficiency and fidelity in vitro and in vivo . However , the photophysics and cytotoxicity behavior of dTAT1 under UV light have not been investigated . We demonstrate that dTAT1 populates the triplet state upon 390 nm excitation but exhibits minimal cytotoxicity in cells . Analysis of reactive oxygen species indicates that dTAT1 produces a low singlet oxygen quantum yield of 17% while it generates superoxide , a less harmful reactive oxygen species . Its triplet lifetime is 7 times shorter than that of dTPT3 , contributing to its lower photocytotoxicity . These findings highlight the potential of dTAT1 for safe genetic code expansion and therapeutic applications , providing valuable insights for designing next-generation unnatural nucleosides with minimal impact on cellular health . FAU - Acquah , Chris
The Gram-negative anaerobe Fusobacterium nucleatum is an oral oncobacterium that promotes colorectal cancer ( CRC ) development with the amyloid-forming cell surface adhesin FadA integral to CRC tumorigenesis . We describe here molecular genetic studies uncovering a novel mode of metabolic regulation of FadA-mediated tumor formation by a highly conserved respiratory enzyme known as the Rnf complex . First , we show that genetic disruption of Rnf , via rnfC deletion , significantly reduces the level of fadA transcript , accompanied by a near-complete abolishment of the precursor form of FadA ( pFadA ) , reduced assembly of FadA at the mature cell pole , and severe defects in the osmotic stress-induced formation of FadA amyloids . We show further that the Rnf complex regulates three response regulators ( CarR , ArlR , and S1 ) , which modulate the expression of pFadA , without affecting fadA transcript . Consistent with our hypothesis that these response regulators control factors that process FadA , deletion of rnfC , carR , arlR , or s1 each impairs expression of the signal peptidase gene lepB , and FadA production is nearly abolished by CRISPR-induced depletion of lepB . Importantly , while rnfC deletion does not affect the ability of the mutant cells to adhere to CRC cells , rnfC deficiency significantly diminishes the fusobacterial invasion of CRC cells and formation of spheroid tumors in vitro . Evidently , the Rnf complex modulates the expression of the FadA adhesin and tumorigenesis through a gene regulatory network consisting of multiple response regulators , each controlling a signal peptidase that is critical for the post-translational processing of FadA and surface assembly of FadA amyloids . IMPORTANCEThe Rhodobacter nitrogen-fixation ( Rnf ) complex of Fusobacterium nucleatum plays an important role in the pathophysiology of this oral pathobiont since genetic disruption of this conserved respiratory enzyme negatively impacts a wide range of metabolic pathways , as well as bacterial virulence in mice . Nonetheless , how Rnf deficiency weakens the virulence potential of F . nucleatum is not well understood . Here , we show that genetic disruption of the Rnf complex reduces surface assembly of adhesin FadA and FadA-mediated amyloid formation , via regulation of signal peptidase LepB by multiple response regulators . As FadA is critical in the carcinogenesis of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) , the ability to invade CRC cells and promote spheroid tumor growth is strongly diminished in an Rnf-deficient mutant . Thus , this work uncovers a molecular linkage between the Rnf complex and LepB-regulated processing of FadA-likely via metabolic signaling-that maintains the virulence potential of this oncobacterium in various cellular niches . FAU - Britton , Timmie A
BACKGROUND : Mechanical processing techniques to isolate the stromal vascular fraction ( SVF ) may optimize clinical translation of cell-based therapeutics . Therefore , the purpose of this study was to develop a technique for intraoperative isolation of SVF for immediate therapeutic use with the primary aim of enhancing bone healing at irradiated fracture sites . METHODS : Male Lewis rats ( n = 29 ) were divided into groups : fracture , radiation with fracture , and radiation with fracture and SVF implantation . Experimental groups received 35 Gy of targeted radiation . All groups underwent mandibular osteotomy and external fixation . SVF was isolated from inguinal fat pads using Tulip Sizing Transfers , serial filtration , and centrifugation . The resultant cell pellet was implanted at the osteotomy site . After 40 days , bone union and mineralization were evaluated based on gross pathology and micro-computed tomography , respectively , and biomechanical strength testing was performed . RESULTS : SVF treatment increased union rates after radiation ( 79% vs 20% ) . Additionally , SVF improved both bone mineral density ( 2 +/- 0 vs 2 +/- 7 ; P = 000 ) and bone volume fraction ( 744 +/- 072 vs 350 +/- 041 ; P = 000 ) compared with the irradiated control . In fact , SVF treatment into irradiated fracture sites resulted in bone mineral density and bone volume fraction similar to the bone formed at nonirradiated fracture sites , as there was no significant difference between groups . SVF treatment did not significantly improve biomechanical strength compared with the irradiated control . CONCLUSIONS : In this study , we developed a novel approach utilizing mechanical methods to enable intraoperative SVF isolation for immediate implantation . SVF demonstrates therapeutic potential for applications in irradiated fracture healing . The results of this study are promising for the long-awaited translation of cell-based therapeutics into the clinical arena .
The annual ImmunoRad Conference has established itself as a recurrent occasion to explore the possibility of combining radiation therapy ( RT ) and immunotherapy ( IT ) for clinical cancer management . Bringing together a number of preclinical and clinical leaders in the fields of radiation oncology , immuno-oncology and IT , this annual event fosters indeed essential conversations and fruitful exchanges on how to address existing challenges to expand the therapeutic value of RT-IT combinations . The 8th edition of the ImmunoRad Conference , which has been held in October 2024 at the Weill Cornell Medical College of New York City , highlighted exciting preclinical and clinical advances at the interface between RT and IT , setting the stage for extra progress toward extended benefits for patients with an increasing variety of tumor types . Here , we critically summarize the lines of investigation that have been discussed at the occasion of the 8th Annual ImmunoRad Conference . FAU - Talebi , Fereshteh
INTRODUCTION : High-dose brachytherapy using a non-sealed Rhenium resin ( Re ) is a new treatment option for difficult-to-treat basal cell carcinoma ( BCC ) that ensures a radical oncological outcome minimizing side effects . OBJECTIVES : The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the clinical efficacy of high-dose standardized brachytherapy using an unsealed Re in the management of difficult-to-treat BCCs and to evaluate the risk factors of relapses . METHODS : Between October 2017 and December 2022 , patients affected by difficult-to-treat BCC were selected . INCLUSION CRITERIA : histologically proven cutaneous BCC ; thickness invasion no deeper than 3 mm ; lesion located in the scalp , face , ears , or fingers or other areas in which surgery would have been difficult to perform or to destroy with scarce cosmetic-functional result ; contraindication or refusal of surgery . All patients performed follow-up visits with videodermoscopy every 4-6 months . RESULTS : Sixty-four consecutive patients affected by 82 histologically proven high-risk BCCs , were enrolled : 60 were nodular , 9 sclerodermiform , and 13 superficial . Average follow-up was 24 months . Brachytherapy with Re resin achieved a complete response in 93% of " difficult-to-treat " BCCs , with relapses occurring on average 24 months after the initial treatment . No statistically significant difference in response to brachytherapy was found in the anatomical area treated , size of the tumor , or previously treated vs . naive BCCs . The sclerodermiform histotype had a 7-fold higher risk of recurrence than nodular histotype ; recurrence occurred approximately 12 weeks earlier . CONCLUSION : High-dose Re brachytherapy is a noninvasive , easy to perform , well-tolerated approach to treat difficult BCC when surgery or other therapy techniques are not feasible . FAU - Chessa , Marco Adriano
INTRODUCTION : Melanoma of the skin is responsible for most skin cancer-related deaths . It is well known that exposure to ultraviolet radiation is the most common and modifiable risk factor for melanoma . Melanomas arising on chronically sun-damaged skin ( CSDS ) have shown a higher mutational burden . OBJECTIVES : To analyze skin samples of patients with melanoma on CSDS to identify possible gene expression signatures that may contribute to melanomagenesis . METHODS : This experimental observational analysis , conducted at the Dermatology Melanoma and Pigmented Lesion Clinic at University of Miami Hospitals/Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center , Miami , Florida , included a total of 10 patients over 18 years of age with a recent diagnosis of melanoma on CSDS . For each patient , two skin samples were obtained using a 2-mm punch ( one from CSDS within 2 cm of the primary melanoma , another from sun-protected skin ) . Skin samples were sent to the Sylvester Onco-genomics Shared Resource ( OGSR ) for library preparation and RNA sequencing . Main outcome was the identification of differentially expressed genes between CSDS and non-CSDS of patients with a recent diagnosis of melanoma . RESULTS : A total of four skin samples met the necessary quality standards for molecular analyses . Significant differences were observed between the CSDS and non-CSDS samples . Pathways involved in inflammation ( e . g . , IL-17 signaling ) , immune responses ( e . g . , ABC transporters ) , and oxidative phosphorylation were overexpressed in CSDS . CONCLUSIONS : CSDS can be an adequate milieu for the development and progression of melanoma . CSDS reveals overexpression of pathways involved in inflammation , immune responses , and oxidative phosphorylation , all of which may facilitate interactions between the skin microenvironment and melanocytes/melanoma cells , predisposing to melanoma development and progression . FAU - Avila , Alejandra
INTRODUCTION : Erosive pustular dermatosis of the scalp ( EPDS ) presents as a rare and challenging skin disorder marked by erosions , pustules , and crusted lesions on the scalp . Diagnosing EPDS is complex , often mimicking other dermatological conditions like actinic keratosis ( AK ) , basal cell carcinoma ( BCC ) , or squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) . Therapeutic challenges arise from EPDS ' s chronic , relapsing nature , which requires long-term management . OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to identify and compare dermoscopic features of EPDS mimicking SCC of the scalp to improve diagnostic accuracy and support non-invasive differentiation . METHODS : A retrospective descriptive study , conducted in two Italian dermatological centers from 2017 to 2023 , included 43 patients initially diagnosed with SCC of the scalp that was afterwards confirmed as EPDS through either histology or clinical evaluation and follow-up . Clinical and dermoscopic criteria were evaluated . A comparison of dermoscopical criteria with the same number of confirmed SCC of the scalp was performed . RESULTS : A total of 43 patients were included , predominantly male ( 42 : 1 ) . Androgenetic alopecia was present in 65% of cases , predominantly in the parietal area ( 44% ) . Hairpin and dotted vessels , along with white and combined lesion colors , were strongly associated with SCC , while polymorphic and branched vessels , orange tones , and targetoid hair follicles predominated in EPDS . CONCLUSIONS : EPDS poses diagnostic and therapeutic challenges due to its unique features and elusive etiology . Distinguishing SCC from EPDS is crucial to avoid unnecessary treatments ; dermoscopy can serve as an instrument in this process . FAU - Scharf , Camila
INTRODUCTION : Facial pigmented lesions pose significant challenges for diagnosis and treatment planning due to their anatomical topography and complexity . Traditional methods like dermoscopy have limitations , and while reflectance confocal microscopy ( RCM ) offers in-vivo cellular resolution , it is hindered by shallow penetration . The recently developed line-field confocal optical coherence tomography ( LC-OCT ) combines the benefits of OCT and RCM , providing deeper penetration and three-dimensional cellular imaging . OBJECTIVES : This study aims to assess the ability of LC-OCT in displaying morphological features correlated and compared with RCM and histopathological findings . METHODS : Over a period of 1-year , various pigmented facial lesions were selected , including solar lentigo , seborrheic keratosis , lichen planus-like keratosis , pigmented actinic keratosis , basal cell carcinoma , compound nevus , lentigo maligna , and invasive melanoma . LC-OCT and RCM were used for imaging , and their morphological features were compared . Lesions , except solar lentigo and compound nevus , were excised for histopathological evaluation . Morphological criteria from imaging were correlated with histopathological findings . RESULTS : LC-OCT matched RCM in spatial resolution while providing deeper tissue penetration and three-dimensional visualization . This advantage was particularly notable in pigmented actinic keratosis and basal cell carcinoma , where LC-OCT ' s vertical imaging offered unique diagnostic insights . It also enhanced the understanding of the architecture of melanocytic lesions . CONCLUSION : LC-OCT adds new insight into the imaging and diagnosis of facial pigmented lesions , offering additional morphological features . This pilot study highlights its potential to improve diagnostic accuracy and patient care , with further research needed to assess its broader clinical applications . FAU - Lenoir , Clement
INTRODUCTION : Lichen planopilaris ( LPP ) is the most prevalent form of scarring alopecia and lymphocytic infiltration that affects the infundibulum and isthmus , perifollicular melanophages , and perifollicular constrictive fibrosis OBJECTIVE : We aimed to assess the contribution of periostin tissue levels to the pathogenesis of LPP and its association with disease severity . METHODS : A total of 30 cases diagnosed with LPP between July 15 and October 15 , 2022 were studied . Patient age , disease duration , disease severity , and periostin levels were recorded , and periostin immunohistochemistry was performed to obtain histoscores for the perifollicular area , dermoepidermal junction , fibroblasts , and inflammatory cells , and these were compared with the control group . RESULTS : The female sex predominated , with the majority ( 67% ) ; 25 patients were classified with mild disease and five with severe LPP . Statistically significant differences were found in keratinocyte staining intensities between the mild and severe groups ( P=023 ; P<01 ) , with the LPP group exhibiting a higher rate of moderate staining intensity compared to the control group . In terms of perifollicular staining intensities , the rate of non-staining was higher in the control group compared to the LPP group . Statistically significant differences were also observed in fibroblast ( P=001 ) and inflammatory cell ( P=001 ) staining intensities between the groups . No statistically significant difference was found between the patients with mild or severe disease in the LPP group . CONCLUSION : The relationship between periostin and disease severity could not be conclusively established . The presence of periostin staining in all histopathologically-affected areas of patients with LPP suggests that periostin may serve as a promising marker in LPP . FAU - Agirgol , Senay
BACKGROUND : Although allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation ( alloHSCT ) can be a lifesaving therapy for patients with hematologic malignancies , only 30% of patients in need of transplantation will have a human leukocyte antigen matched related donor available . OBJECTIVES : This article introduces an approved alternative donor stem cell source that is shown to provide earlier engraftment and decreased infections compared to dual or single umbilical cord blood transplantation . METHODS : This article provides an overview of the pathophysiology , clinical trial results , and nursing management of the approved omidubicel-onlv cellular therapy product as an alternative donor source for patients undergoing alloHSCT . FINDINGS : Omidubicel provides an alternative donor source for patients undergoing alloHSCT for whom there is no matched donor available . This need may be particularly great in ethnic and racial minority populations who may be underrepresented in the NMDP BioTherapies database . FAU - Lassiter , Martha
BACKGROUND : Vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( VEGFR-TKIs ) , alone or in combination with immune checkpoint inhibitors , are part of the standard of care in treating metastatic renal cell carcinoma ( mRCC ) . VEGFR-TKIs are associated with acute , chronic , and potentially dose-limiting toxicities requiring treatment modifications and discontinuations . OBJECTIVES : This article summarizes evidence-based practices that oncology nurses may use to manage VEGFR-TKI adverse events and improve quality of life in patients with mRCC . METHODS : Pivotal clinical trial publications of VEGFR-TKIs in mRCC were reviewed to evaluate the adverse event profile of each drug and effective management strategies . FINDINGS : Patients with mRCC treated with VEGFR-TKIs can benefit from education about potential side effects , consistent monitoring , and early detection of adverse events , as well as appropriate interventions to improve treatment tolerability , adherence , outcomes , and quality of life . FAU - Wood , Laura S
This comprehensive review delves into the pivotal role of intestinal epithelial cells in the context of various diseases . It provides an in-depth analysis of the diverse types and functions of these cells , explores the influence of multiple signaling pathways on their differentiation , and elucidates their critical roles in a spectrum of diseases . The significance of the gastrointestinal tract in maintaining overall health is extremely important and cannot be exaggerated . This complex and elongated organ acts as a crucial link between the internal and external environments , making it vulnerable to various harmful influences . Preserving the normal structure and function of the gut is essential for well-being . Intestinal epithelial cells serve as the primary defense mechanism within the gastrointestinal tract and play a crucial role in preventing harmful substances from infiltrating the body . As the main components of the digestive system , they not only participate in the absorption and secretion of nutrients and the maintenance of barrier function but also play a pivotal role in immune defense . Therefore , the health of intestinal epithelial cells is of vital importance for overall health . FAU - An , Chenchen
Allergic asthma is a chronic inflammatory airway disease characterised by airway hyperresponsiveness , reversible airflow obstruction and chronic inflammation . Environmental allergens trigger a series of immune responses driven by a Th2-dominated immune system , along with innate cells like innate lymphoid cells type 2 ( ILC2 ) and effector cells such as mast cells , basophils and eosinophils . In addition to these immune pathways , genetic predisposition plays a crucial role in asthma onset . This review highlights the genetic basis of allergic asthma , the key immune responses , the mechanisms behind airway remodelling and advances in therapeutic strategies .
Health effects of electronic cigarettes ( ECs ) remain unknown , despite their popularity . We have determined that ECs produce highly reactive free radicals that could potentially cause damage in exposed tissues , mainly lungs . Goal for this study was to investigate the short- and long-term effects of ECs in mouse lungs . We focused on evaluating lung functions , oxidative stress related markers , and lung injury following nose-only exposures in male and female mice after 4- and 12-week periods . The EC exposure was modeled in vivo using nose-only exposures to C57BL/6 mice . For all studies , E-liquid ( 60 : 40 ; PG : VG ) aerosols were compared to sham ( compressed air ) and to very low non-nicotine cigarette smoke ( CS ) controls in both sexes . Oxidative stress biomarkers ( GSH , 8-Isoprostane , REDD1 , and pGSK3beta ) and their selected downstream ( RPS6 ) as well as upstream ( AKT ) target proteins in addition to pH2AX were measured by Western blot analysis . Lung function in mice was assessed by flexiVent and the injury scores were calculated following lung histology . Changes in cytology were also observed in cytospins from bronchoalveolar lavage ( BALF ) . The lung injury ( LI ) score following 12-week exposures was significantly higher with EC and CS in female mice . Higher cell counts in BALF were mainly observed in CS exposed males and females at 4 and 12 weeks . 8-Isoprostane levels were significantly higher in EC and CS exposed males at 12 weeks . pGSK3beta/GSK3beta was low in males and higher in female mice at 4 weeks , and this difference was more pronounced at 12 weeks in CS exposed mice . Some mice exposed to EC and CS also showed DNA damage , as measured by pH2AX/H2AX expression . Based on the LI score , ECs were placed in between compressed air and CS . Our results showed the differentially expressed inflammation and oxidative stress/damage-related pathways from in vivo exposures to EC aerosols vs CS that could be an effective strategy for identifying EC relevant biomarkers of exposure and potential harm . FAU - Sinha , Indu
BACKGROUND : Medulloblastoma ( MB ) is the most common pediatric malignant brain tumor . Infiltration of tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and m6A modification of RNA are correlated with poor prognosis and tumor progression in the Sonic Hedgehog ( SHH ) subtype ( SHH-MB ) . However , the relationship between TAMs infiltration in SHH-MB and m6A modification status during tumor progression remains unclear . METHODS : Expression of m6A modification-related proteins was assessed in 40 cases of SHH-MB . Genes affected by TAM-derived exosomes were identified with methylated RNA immunoprecipitation sequencing . Mechanisms of m6A modification of FOXD1 were evaluated and combinatorial treatment with AAV2/9-shFOXD1 and PD-1 inhibitors was investigated in the NeuroD2 : SmoA1 mouse model . RESULTS : TAMs infiltration led to decreased METTL14 expression , which was mediated by TAM-derived exosomes containing METTL14-specific microRNAs . In turn , this led to lower levels of m6A modifications . Through a screen , FOXD1 was identified as a critical downstream target of TAM-derived exosomes , and its expression level was correlated with poor prognosis in SHH-MBs . Importantly , knockdown of FOXD1 in SHH-MB cells significantly promoted the release of chemokines CXCL10/11 , resulting in CD8+ T cell recruitment . Furthermore , treatment with AAV2/9-shFOXD1 significantly enhanced the antitumor effect of the PD-1 inhibitor in transgenic SHH-MB mice . CONCLUSION : Our study revealed for the first time that TAM-derived exosomes modulate m6A levels in SHH-MB , which promotes tumor progression via FOXD We identified FOXD1 as a novel therapeutic target whose inhibition sensitizes SHH-MB to immune checkpoint blockade .
Complex wound management remains a significant global challenge , and the development of multifunctional wound dressings that can effectively promote wound healing remains an urgent clinical need . Herein , a kind of multifunctional hydrogel wound dressing that combines bacteriostasis , self-healing capability , growth factor release , electrical stimulation , and photothermal stimulation is developed . This kind of wound dressing is generated by adding protocatechualdehyde ( protocatechuic aldehyde ( PA ) ) , short core-shell fibers loading with platelet-rich-plasma ( platelet-rich plasma fibers ) , and polydopamine-coated carbon nanotubes ( PDA@CNTs ) into quaternary ammonium chitosan ( QCS ) solution to form a shear-reversibly cross-linked QCS/PA/PDA@CNTs-PRP hydrogel . The obtained hydrogels possess impressive properties , including high swelling capacity ( 445-852% ) , strong adhesion ability ( 4-7 kPa ) , self-healing ability , injectability , conductivity ( 24-46 S/m ) , and photothermal properties . Notably , under near-infrared irradiation , the hydrogel exhibits a highly efficient bactericidal activity . In vitro experiments demonstrated that the hydrogel exhibits excellent biocompatibility and anti-inflammatory capability as well as its ability to stimulate cell proliferation , migration , and tubule formation . Moreover , the in vivo studies further confirmed that with the additional assistance of near-infrared light and electrical stimulation , the hydrogel further promotes wound epithelization , angiogenesis , and collagen deposition . Consequently , this hydrogel provides a promising therapeutic strategy for complex wound healing . FAU - Lai , Simin
INTRODUCTION : Demand for genetic testing has expanded exome sequencing ( ES ) utilization into subspecialty clinics without genetics providers . This trend forces non-genetics physicians ( NGPs ) to facilitate patient consent for genetic testing . However , research on NGPs ' knowledge of consent elements ( CK ) required for ES has not been explored . METHODS : Columbia University NGPs were invited to take a survey ( premodule survey [PrS] ) assessing CK for ES . Educational modules on ES were then created and sent to NGP participants . A postmodule survey ( PoS ) was sent to NGPs a month later to assess the change in CK scores . Alpha was set at </= RESULTS : Nineteen participants completed the PrS and PoS . Overall PrS CK scores were low ( mean = 8 , SD 6 ) . There was no difference in PrS CK scores between attendings and residents/fellows ( P = . 2 ) , and PrS CK scores did not correlate with time since medical school graduation ( P = . 9 ) . PoS CK scores were higher than PrS CK scores ( P = . 03 ) . Most NGPs ( 74% ) were satisfied with the module . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest a need for continuing education of both new and experienced NGPs on best practices for consenting for ES . An online module with information tailored to different specialties could be an effective format for delivering this education .
Ultraviolet light shining on flowers has various effects . In this review we assess functions of UV pigments and UV reflection patterns in flowers , including visual signalling by reflectance , fluorescence , and gloss , as well as protection against UV radiation . UV patterns originate from UV reflection and absorption in different floral parts and are visible to most pollinators , but invisible to humans . UV patterns can guide pollinators towards a floral reward , such as the centre-outward UV pattern , the so-called UV bull ' s eye . However , the diversity and complexity of floral colour patterns is much higher and may or may not include UV . For flower visitors , reflected UV light is merely a component of their colour vision rather than a UV signal processed separately . Yet , to humans it is a challenge to detect and represent UV reflectance in flowers . Advantages and limits of spectrophotometry , UV photography and false colour photography in bee view are discussed . Besides floral pigments causing absorption and fluorescence , flower signals can be produced by epidermal structures , i . e . smooth or conical epidermal cells , causing specular reflection ( gloss ) or refraction of light , and light-scattering structures causing reflection . Exposed nectar , pollen and stamens also display visual signals including UV . Finally , the absorption of UV light by pollen pigments protects the precious DNA inside the pollen grain from harmful UV radiation . UV-absorbing central parts on flowers also protect flower DNA by impeding the reflection of UV light from petals onto stamens and pollen . We briefly discuss how flower UV patterns may change in response to increasing global UV radiation , potentially influencing plant pollination .
Mangiferin ( MAN ) , a natural C-glycosylxanthone , is recognized for its health-promoting effects in traditional medicinal preparations . However , its poor bioavailability and limited intestinal permeability restrict its direct biological activity in vivo . Previous studies have suggested a potential bacterial breakdown of MAN into norathyriol ( NOR ) , an aglycone with significantly higher bioavailability and absorption . Yet , the prevalence of MAN-metabolizing microbes , the presence of MAN or NOR within the gut microbial community , and their effects on the composition and metabolic activity of the gut microbiome remain unclear . In this study , fecal samples from healthy adult volunteers treated with MAN revealed its conversion to NOR , with interindividual variation attributed to the uncultured bacterial strain CAKRHR01 sp While MAN had minimal impact on microbial composition and metabolic activity , NOR treatment significantly increased pH , reduced overall bacterial cell counts , and selectively suppressed short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria , including Faecalibacterium prausnitzii as well as urate consumers , such as Enterocloster bolteae . These findings underscore the potential of NOR to modulate gut microbial activity and highlight the importance of understanding microbiome-mediated metabolism when assessing the health implications of phytochemicals . FAU - Bunt , Daan
PTEN immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) is considered complimentary for assessment of PTEN abnormality in endometrial carcinoma ( EC ) , since PTEN IHC staining pattern does not entirely correlate with the presence and absence of mutations on sequencing . A set of functionally defective PTEN variants with stable protein levels are known to act in a dominant-negative manner to suppress wild-type PTEN activity . Our objective was to evaluate PTEN IHC patterns in ECs with dominant-negative ( DN ) PTEN mutations . ECs with next-generation sequencing ( NGS , using Oncomine Comprehensive Assay v3 ) over a 3-year period were enrolled . PTEN IHC was scored as loss , subclonal loss , reduced , and intact ( the last 3 considered retained ) . Of 182 EC cases , 114 ( 6% ) were identified to have PTEN mutation ( s ) , the majority of endometrioid histotype ( 7% ) from all EC molecular classes . Forty-seven cases ( 2% ) harbored DN mutations which were of endometrioid ( FIGO 1 [n=15 , 9%] , FIGO 2 [n=23 , 9%] , FIGO 3 [n=3 , 4%] ) , dedifferentiated ( n=2 , 4% ) , carcinosarcoma ( n=3 , 6% ) , mixed endometrioid and clear cell carcinoma ( n=1 , 2% ) histotype ; with representatives from all molecular classes . PTEN IHC showed retained expression in 8% ( 45/47 ) of DN-mutated cases ( intact staining in 36 [6%] , reduced staining in 6 [5%] , and subclonal loss in 3 [4%] ) cases . Two cases showed loss of expression ( 2% ) . In the PTEN wild-type group , loss and subclonal loss of expression were seen in 5% and 4% , respectively . Our results indicate that DN PTEN mutations are common in EC , and are associated with retained IHC staining ( intact , reduced , or subclonal loss ) . These results highlight that IHC and NGS are both required in capturing the full spectrum of PTEN-abnormal EC .
Insects in mid- to high latitudes predict unfavorable seasons through changing photoperiod , and undergo diapause to survive harsh conditions . The circadian clock and brain neurosecretory systems are key components in regulating photoperiodic diapause . However , the neuronal pathways linking these systems , and the neuropeptides involved in photoperiodic diapause remain poorly understood . We have investigated the role of corazonin ( CRZ ) , a conserved neuropeptide regulating metabolic stress and reproduction , in the bean bug Riptortus pedestris , a species highly sensitive to short days for diapause induction . RNA interference demonstrated that Crz-downregulated females significantly averted diapausing phenotypes even under short-day conditions , exhibiting developed ovaries and oviposition , indicating the suppressive effects of Crz on reproduction in photoperiodic diapause . Immunohistochemistry identified three distinct groups of CRZ-immunoreactive ( -ir ) neurons in the brain . Of these , CRZ-d cells in the pars lateralis ( PL ) project axons toward the corpus cardiacum-corpus allatum complex and aorta , indicating a neurosecretory role in diapause induction . Additionally , we revealed potential neural connections between CRZ-ir and pigment-dispersing factor ( PDF ) -ir neurons in the dorso-lateral protocerebrum . The PDF-ir neurons project neurites into/near the accessory medulla ( AME ) , a probable hub for circadian clock regulation , suggesting that photoperiodic information processed in the AME is relayed to CRZ-ir PL neurons . PCR detected Crz receptor expression in the fat body and ovary , suggesting that CRZ-d PL neurons regulate reproductive diapause by directly targeting these tissues in response to photoperiodic inputs . These findings illuminate the neuroendocrine mechanisms underlying photoperiodic reproductive diapause in R . pedestris , highlighting the suppressive role of CRZ under short-day conditions .
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) is defined by motor neuron death . However , recent research has identified non-cell-autonomous mechanisms , with significant involvement of glia in disease progression . We link previous observations of intracellular protein aggregates in glia to the autophagy pathway , the primary mediator of intracellular degradation of large protein aggregates . While dysfunctional autophagy is reported in ALS motor neurons , pre-clinical and clinical outcomes of autophagy modulators have been inconsistent , indicating the need for a nuanced understanding of autophagy dynamics across CNS cell types and ALS-affected regions . We hypothesized that glial autophagy is defective in ALS , with glial-type-specific dysfunction . To investigate in vivo autophagy dynamics , we intercrossed SOD1 ( G93A ) mice with transgenic RFP-EGFP-LC3 autophagy reporter mice , enabling the quantification of autophagy degradation , termed flux . Investigation of autophagy dynamics in SOD1 oligodendrocytes , microglia , and astrocytes at key disease stages uncovered useful insights . While oligodendrocytes seemed to mount effective compensatory autophagic responses to combat mutant SOD1 , significantly increased autophagy flux was observed in symptomatic spinal microglia and astrocytes in comparison to controls . Symptomatic SOD1 astrocytes displayed greater autophagy dysfunction compared to microglia , with subcellular analysis revealing cell compartment-specific , transient autophagy defects that returned to control levels by end stage . Interestingly , spinal glia showed more pronounced and earlier autophagy dysfunction compared to motor cortex glia , where autophagy dysfunction emerged later in disease end stage , aligning with greater spinal cord pathology reported in this model . Our results suggest that cell-type- and time-specific targeting might be essential when developing autophagy therapeutics for ALS , with prioritization of astrocytic autophagy modulation .
Let-7a is a key microRNA ( miRNA ) cancer biomarker closely associated with cancer diagnosis and treatment , but its detection is challenging due to its small size and low abundance . In this study , we developed a highly sensitive cascade amplification strategy by integrating catalytic hairpin assembly ( CHA ) and hybridization chain reaction ( HCR ) to achieve dual-signal amplification . Two functionalized DNA tetrahedron ( TDN ) probes , TDN-1 and TDN-2 were first assembled by annealing four sequences and modified with four hairpins . Upon activation by let-7a , a cascade reaction occurred through the TDN-1 and TDN-2 probes , generating DNA aggregates through an isothermal CHA-HCR process . Spatial confinement effect played a key role during the CHA-HCR , enabling highly sensitive detection of let-7a while yielding a detection limit of 51 pM . This TDN-CHA-HCR reaction was then successfully applied to in situ imaging of endogenous let-7a in living cells , showing great promise in the early diagnosis and treatment of cancers . FAU - Zhang , Yan
Enveloped viruses utilize membrane fusion to enter the host cell and cause viral diseases . Most conventional inhibitors are target-specific and ineffective against broad-spectrum viral infections . Therefore , the current scenario demands developing inhibitors to attenuate the membrane properties instead of targeting the viral proteins . In the present work , we have designed a new WD-containing peptide ( dmTG-23 ) by introducing a WD repeat at the center of the peptide sequence using mTG-23 peptide as a template and a 14-amino acid peptide with seven WD repeats ( WD-14 ) , and tested their efficacies against the polyethylene glycol ( PEG ) -induced fusion assay . Our findings show that both dmTG-23 and WD-14 prevent PEG-induced fusion of small unilamellar vesicles ( SUVs ) with varying cholesterol concentrations , with a higher effect for dmTG- Moreover , we have compared our results with our previous observations on TG-23 and mTG-23 to evaluate the importance of the number and position of WD repeats in the peptide sequence to impart the highest inhibitory activity . Our results demonstrate that three WD repeat-containing dmTG-23 shows the highest efficacy against the PEG-induced fusion of SUVs by enhancing the membrane order at the acyl chain region . This result is significantly important in designing peptide-based broad-spectrum fusion inhibitors .
BACKGROUND : Glycine ( Gly ) is a key metabolic intermediate in the proliferation of tumor cells . Monitoring the concentration of Gly in tumor tissues is of great importance for understanding the growth status of tumors . At present , magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( MRS ) is the only method to non-invasively measure Gly concentration in human tissues . However , in conventional MR spectra the H signal of Gly overlaps with those of other molecules . This makes conventional MRS difficult to accurately measure the Gly concentration in human tissues . PURPOSE : To develop a pulse sequence , Gly-MRS , which can accurately measure Gly concentrations without the influence of the signal overlapping from other molecules in subjects with glioma . STUDY TYPE : Prospective . SUBJECTS/PHANTOMS : A phantom of the glycine ( Gly ) , myo-inositol ( MI ) and glutamate ( Glu ) mixture aqueous solution and 6 phantoms of Gly aqueous solution ( pH = 2 +/- 1 ) , 6 subjects with glioma ( 3 females and 3 males , BMI : 20 +/- 4 kg/m , age : 50 +/- 10 years ) . FIELD STRENGTH/SEQUENCE : 3 Tesla/A Gly-targeted magnetic resonance spectroscopy pulse sequence , Gly-MRS , using Point-RESolved Spectroscopy ( PRESS ) for single voxel signal selection . ASSESSMENT : By applying the developed pulse sequences to the phantoms and the subjects with glioma , the Gly H signals were successfully selectively probed . Quantification of the signals yields the concentrations of Gly in the regions of the tumor tissues of the subjects with glioma . STATISTICAL TESTS : Numerical data only . RESULTS : The Gly H signals were detected in the tumor regions of 6 subjects with glioma , at a mean concentration of 20 mM ( standard deviation , +/- 29 mM ) . One subject exhibited a clear spatial distribution in the Gly concentrations in the tumor regions . DATA CONCLUSION : The Gly-MRS pulse sequence developed in this work might be useful for the accurate in vivo detection of the H signal of Gly in gliomas of human beings . EVIDENCE LEVEL : TECHNICAL EFFICACY : Stage
Arginine methyltransferase 1 ( PRMT1 ) is widely recognized as an oncogene in various cancers . However , its specific role and underlying mechanisms in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) remain insufficiently understood . This study investigated the function of PRMT1 in HCC development and immune evasion . A comprehensive approach combining database analysis ( including TCGA , The Human Protein Atlas , Kaplan-Meier Plotter , and TIMER0 ) , molecular techniques ( such as RT-qPCR , Western blot analysis , and co-immunoprecipitation ) , cell-based assays ( including MTT , colony formation , transwell , and T cell killing assays ) , and in vivo models was employed to explore PRMT1 ' s role in HCC . The findings revealed a marked upregulation of PRMT1 in both HCC clinical samples and cell lines . Depletion of PRMT1 inhibited cell proliferation and immune evasion while reducing cell migration and invasion . Mechanistically , PRMT1 was shown to interact with MYC , facilitating its arginine methylation and enhancing its protein stability . Moreover , re-expression of MYC significantly reversed the anti-tumour effects associated with PRMT1 depletion . In vivo experiments further corroborated these results . Collectively , PRMT1 promotes HCC progression and immune escape by mediating ADMA methylation of MYC , thereby regulating its stability and expression . FAU - Zhou , Han
Saxitoxin ( STX ) , a potent neurotoxin produced by cyanobacteria , has not been comprehensively investigated with respect to genotoxic potential , especially in freshwater environments . This study aimed to characterize the genotoxic potential of STX obtained from Raphidiopsis . raciborskii cultures using in vitro and in silico approaches . Mutagenic potential was determined through the Ames test with Salmonella typhimurium strains TA98 , TA100 , and TA DNA damage and chromosomal instability were assessed in human glioblastoma U87-MG cells using the comet and cytokinesis-block micronucleus cytome ( CBMN-Cyt ) assay , respectively . In addition , systems biology tools were applied to explore STX interactions with genes involved in DNA damage response pathways . Data demonstrated no marked mutagenic activity in the Ames test across tested concentrations ( 625-10 microg/L ) . However , significant DNA damage and increased micronucleus ( MN ) formation were observed at 5 , 5 , or 10 microg/L in U87-MG cells , without accompanying cytotoxicity . In silico analysis identified interactions between STX and key proteins , including P53 , CDK5 , and GSK3B , indicating pathways related to DNA damage , cell cycle regulation , and neurogenesis . These findings suggest that STX from freshwater cyanobacteria might induce genotoxic effects at environmentally relevant concentrations . The integration of in vitro and computational data supports the need for regulatory monitoring of STX in drinking water and emphasizes the relevance of neural cell-based models in assessing cyanotoxin-related adverse risks . FAU - Silva Porta , Cynthia
Nose-to-brain delivery is an attractive drug delivery strategy for the treatment of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) as it offers direct penetration of drugs into the brain by surpassing the blood-brain barrier , while reducing the potential systemic side effects . We developed a glutathione analogue , psi-GSH , that resists catabolism and reduces AD-related behavioral and pathological abnormalities in vivo . Although psi-GSH is effective via intraperitoneal administration , limited oral availability hinders the clinical translation of psi-GSH . In this study , we sought to evaluate if intranasal psi-GSH administration can provide neuroprotection in an acute mouse model of AD-related pathology . The pharmacokinetic analysis confirmed brain delivery of the compound to levels 4-fold higher than those achieved by an efficacious systemic dose of psi-GSH . Unaffected stability in simulated nasal fluid and mucosa further displayed the feasibility of this delivery method . Repeated intranasal administration of psi-GSH prevented cognitive impairment induced by the intracerebroventricular injection of Abeta ( 1-42 ) without significant adverse effects . Biochemical and immunohistochemical analyses displayed the beneficial effect of the treatment on oxidative stress and inflammatory markers by engaging GSH-dependent mechanisms , mirroring the pharmacological effects of intraperitoneal psi-GSH . Additionally , in vitro directional transport studies using a human nasal epithelial cell line showed directional brain transport of psi-GSH , without compromising the integrity of tight junction proteins . Collectively , our results demonstrate intranasal delivery as a safe and effective alternative for brain delivery of psi-GSH at pharmacologically relevant concentrations for the treatment of neurological conditions . The study supports future formulation studies for intranasal psi-GSH administration and its efficacy evaluation in transgenic AD mouse models for preclinical advancement . FAU - Bhilare , Kiran D
Outcomes in patients with relapsed/refractory ( RR ) AML are poor . We sought to investigate if CPX-531 in combination with venetoclax ( CPX + VEN ) was tolerable and effective in RR AML . This was a single institution phase 1b/2 trial of CPX + VEN . Patients aged >/= 18 years with RR AML who were fit for intensive chemotherapy were eligible . Prior venetoclax exposure was allowed . The phase 1b portion followed a 3 + 3 design to identify the recommended phase 2 dose ( RP2D ) for the expansion cohort . At the starting dose level of -1 , prolonged myelosuppression was observed , leading to dose level -2 ( CPX-351 dosed at daunorubicin 44 mg/m on days 1 , 3 , and 5 and venetoclax 300 mg days 2-8 ) being chosen as the RP2D . Thirty three patients with a median age of 58 years ( range , 26-72 ) were treated . Patients were heavily pretreated , with 58% with prior venetoclax exposure , 44% in the second salvage or later , and 30% with prior stem cell transplant ( SCT ) . Adverse cytogenetics were present in 51% of patients , with myelodysplasia-related mutations in 64% , and TP53 ( mut ) in 21% . The overall response rate ( ORR ) was 46% ( 95% CI , 30-62 ) , with a composite CR rate ( CRc ) of 39% ( 95% CI , 25-56 ) . Patients in first salvage with wildtype TP53 had a CRc rate of 70% ( 95% CI , 40-89 ) , with undetectable MRD in 71% ( 95% CI , 36-92 ) and a 2-year OS of 49% ( 95% CI , 23-100 ) . Eleven ( 73% ) responding patients underwent SCT . The 30-day mortality was 9% , with a 60-day mortality of 21% . The most common adverse events were related to myelosuppression . CPX + VEN has activity in RR AML , particularly when used in first salvage and in patients who do not harbor TP53 mutations . ClinicalTrials . gov Identifier : NCT
Light-addressable electrochemistry ( LAE ) enables the activation and detection of localized faradaic electrochemical processes on a flat , unconstructed semiconductor electrode through targeted light illumination , making it a promising approach for single-cell electrochemistry . Herein , we report a direct current ( DC ) redox imaging technique for single retinal pigment epithelial cells utilizing LAE with an alpha-FeO electrode activated by a constant , focused laser beam . The proposed DC-LAE method showed micron-scale resolution and was successfully used to image single cells under physiological conditions . We demonstrated that the visualization was primarily due to the hindrance of photoinduced OH ( - ) oxidation by adherent cells , resulting in a reduction of local photocurrents . Inspired by this funding , electroactive substances with high redox activities , such as hydroquinone ( HQ ) , l-ascorbic acid ( AA ) , and potassium ferricyanide ( KFe ( CN ) ) were introduced into the culture medium . These substances significantly enhanced the DC redox imaging performance under low-intensity laser conditions without compromising cell viability . We believe that integrating pure DC-LAE with cell imaging advances quantitative analyses of cellular electrochemical behavior , offering valuable insights into cellular functions and processes . FAU - Jiang , Mingrui
The particular plant found in Turkiye , Chamaecytisus hirsutus ; ( Fabaceae ) , has no studies examining its biological effects . Thus , the present study aimed to investigate the phytochemical composition , chemical profile , antioxidant activity , xanthine oxidase inhibition , anticancer effects , and photodynamic therapy potential of C . hirsutus methanol extract . Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) analysis identified important compounds such as laminitol ( 74% ) , quinolinic acid ( 23% ) , and 2- ( 1 , 3-Dioxan-2-yl ) ethanol ( 27% ) . The IC value of the extract in the DPPH assay was 77 +/- 70 mg/mL , demonstrating significant antioxidant activity . The xanthine oxidase inhibition was found to be 75 +/- 59% , indicating significant free radical scavenging activity . The total phenolic , flavonoid , flavanols , and tannin contents were determined to be 14 +/- 60 mg GAE/g extract , 90 +/- 27 mg QE/g extract , 67 +/- 81 mg QE/g extract , and 49 +/- 12 mg GAE/g extract , respectively . The extract reduced the viability of MKN28 cancer cells by approximately 85% at a concentration of 4 mg/mL , demonstrating significant anticancer activity . Combination therapy with photodynamic therapy further enhanced the cytotoxic effect . Additionally , the binding affinities of these compounds with the 1GUX target protein were evaluated using molecular docking , and 4-Methyl-2-pentadecyl-1 , 3-dioxolane and Laminitol were determined as the strongest inhibitors with binding energies of -9 kcal/mol and -1 kcal/mol , respectively . Molecular dynamics simulations confirmed the stability of these interactions , with 4-Methyl-2-pentadecyl-1 , 3-dioxolane emerging as the compound with the strongest binding affinity . These findings suggest that C . hirsutus extract has the potential to be a powerful anticancer agent when used in photodynamic therapy . FAU - Caliskan , Metin
Based on the pharmacophore structural characteristics of topoisomerase II ( TopoII ) inhibitors : ( i ) planar polyaromatic skeleton ; ( ii ) the cation core ; ( iii ) a groove-binding side chain moiety , 16 urolithin derivatives with O-dialkylaminoalkyl substitutions were designed and synthesized . Most of the synthesized compounds showed improved TopoIIalpha inhibitory and antiproliferative activities . 20 with the best TopoIIalpha inhibitory activity also exhibited excellent antiproliferative activity with IC values of 91 +/- 01 , 93 +/- 04 , and 84 +/- 34 muM against the MDA-MB-231 , HeLa , and A549 cell lines , being about 55 , 95 , and 17 times more active than VP-16 ( IC 42 +/- 82 , 63 +/- 46 , and 15 +/- 43 muM , respectively ) . Meanwhile , 20 exhibited weak toxicity to normal cells . In addition , 20 exerted anti-migration and anti-invasion activity against MDA-MB-231 cells . Our results supported that 20 might act as TopoIIalpha inhibitor with the potential to become a new type of antitumor drug lead .
Systemic lupus erythematosus is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by the production of autoantibodies and damage to multiple organs . Glomerulonephritis , a manifestation involving glomerular deposition of immune complexes and complement components , significantly contributes to disease morbidity . Although an endosomal single-stranded RNA sensor [Toll-like receptor 7 ( TLR7 ) ] is known to drive glomerulonephritis by promoting autoantibody production in B cells , the contribution of macrophage TLR7 responses to glomerulonephritis remains poorly understood . Here , we have examined Tlr7/ NZBWF1 ( New Zealand Black/New Zealand White F1 ) mice and found that TLR7 deficiency ameliorates lupus nephritis by abolishing autoantibody production against RNA-associated antigens , C3 deposition , and macrophage accumulation in glomeruli . Furthermore , TLR7 signaling increased CD31 expression on glomerular endothelial cells and Ly6Clow macrophages but not on T and B cells , suggesting that CD31 mediates TLR7-dependent migration of monocytes into glomeruli . Compared to their splenic counterparts , glomerular macrophages produced IL-1beta in a TLR7-dependent manner . In addition , single-cell RNA sequencing of glomerular macrophages revealed that TLR7 signaling induced expression of lupus-associated genes , including those encoding Chitinase 3 like 1 , ferritin heavy chain 1 , IKKepsilon , and complement factor B ( CfB ) . Although serum CfB did not increase in NZBWF1 mice , TLR7-dependent CfB protein expression was detected in glomerular macrophages . In addition , TLR7 signaling promoted C3 cleavage and deposition predominantly on mesangial cells . These findings suggest that TLR7 responses in glomerular macrophages accelerate the progression of glomerulonephritis in NZBWF1 mice .
Root branching and lateral root formation aided successful colonization of land plants in terrestrial ecosystems , eventually resulting in the origin of an adaptive trait called nodulation in specific land plant lineages . Nodule and lateral root formations involve de novo organogenesis , which is induced post-embryonically with coordinated steps of cell division and differentiation . There are substantial resemblances between the initiation of nodule and lateral root , including the types of root cell lineages that acquire mitotic competence to induce new organ formation and the pattern of formative division within the incipient organ primordia , both converging on a localized auxin response . The recruitment of specific genetic modules of lateral root developmental pathways during nodule organogenesis corroborates their evolutionary origin as modified lateral roots . However , such genetic modules are likely to be regulated differentially depending on the acquisition of nodulation-specific adaptations to ensure novelty in nodule organogenesis . Despite commonalities , these two lateral organs have differential morphology , vascular organizations , and functions due to the acquisition of different organ identities , suggesting involvement of distinct differentiation pathways during the maturation of both these organs . The current review provides a consolidated idea of the recent advances in nodule development with its resemblance to lateral root formation , emphasizing the shared and unique genetic regulators involved from their inception to maturation .
Mechanically interlocked polymers and molecules exhibit unique topological , physical , and chemical properties , making them highly promising for applications in molecular machines , molecular switches , artificial muscles , nano-actuators , nano-sensors , and biomedical technologies . While significant progress has been made in their synthesis and practical implementation , theoretical studies remain underexplored . In this work , we examine the role of entropic forces in daisy chain structures incorporating rotaxanes , with the ultimate goal of characterizing entropic nano-springs for use in nanomechanics and nanotechnology . Potential applications include artificial cytoskeletons , synthetic cells , and nano-mechanical logic gates .
Antimony selenosulfide [Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3] solar cells have attracted increasing attention because of their abundant reserves and excellent photoelectric properties . In the case of the Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3 solar cell featuring a superstrate structure of indium tin oxide/cadmium sulfide ( CdS ) /Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3/spiro-OMeTAD/Au , the device performance was limited by the poor heterojunction interfaces , especially the poor interface of the P-N heterojunction . In this study , InCl3-modified In2O3 was used to tailor the quality of the P-N heterojunction . The quality of the CdS deposited on InCl3-modified In2O3 was significantly improved . In addition , the conduction band offset between P-N junctions is tailored , which is helpful for carrier transport . As Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3 was deposited on such a modified electron transport layer by InCl3-modified In2O3 , the ( hkl , l = 1 ) preferred orientation of the Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3 film increased greatly , and the built-in voltage of the Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3 solar cell tailored by InCl3-modified In2O3 was enlarged , which is beneficial for carrier transport . Finally , the InCl3-modified In2O3-assisted CdS double electron transport layers achieved a remarkable power conversion efficiency of 44% for Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3 solar cells via the vapor transport deposition method . This work provides a valuable reference for interface modifications and further boosts the efficiency of Sb2 ( S , Se ) 3 solar cells .
Calculation of the center of mass of a group of particles in a periodically repeating cell is an important aspect of chemical and physical simulations . One popular approach calculates the center of mass via the projection of the individual particles ' coordinates onto a circle [Bai and Breen , J . Graph . Tools , 13 , 53 ] . However , this approach involves averaging the particles in a non-physically meaningful way , resulting in inaccurate centers of mass . Instead , the intrinsic weighted average should be computed , but the analytical calculation of this is computationally expensive and complex . Here , we propose a more computationally efficient approach to compute the intrinsic mean that is suitable for the majority of chemical systems .
BACKGROUND : One of the most lethal forms of cancer that impacts women worldwide is breast cancer ( BC ) . The treatment results are influenced by multiple factors , such as the phase of diagnosis , hereditary and hormonal influences , medication resistance , and metastases . Ailanthus Excelsa ( AE ) crude extract is rich in antioxidants and possesses potent anticancer properties , as demonstrated in tests on MCF-7 cells . Additionally , both lavender oil ( LO ) and tea tree oil ( TTO ) have potential cytotoxicity against cancer . OBJECTIVES : The purpose of this study was to boost the potency and solubility of AE against breast cancer via its loading in lipidic nanocarriers ( LNPs ) whose structure is based on a mixture of LO and TTO . METHODS : The particle size , stability , and zeta potential of AE-loaded LNPs were examined over 6 months , and the measurements confirmed the good stability of the newly developed AE-LNPs . RESULTS : The AE-LNPs have demonstrated a stronger anticancer impact compared to free AE and plain LNPs , where IC values were found to be 88 +/- 09 , 09 +/- 13 , and 49 +/- 67microg/ml for plain NPs , free AE , and AE-LNPs , respectively . Furthermore , the AE-LNPs exhibited more pronounced anticancer effects in the Ehrlich ascites in-vivo tumor model , accompanied by significant antiproliferative and antioxidant properties . The immunohistochemical analysis of BCL-2 in tumor tissue validated the apoptotic activity of AE-LNPs . CONCLUSION : This study is the first to examine the formulation of the newly developed AE-loaded LNPs , demonstrating their efficacy in producing anti-proliferative effects and their considerable promise for BC treatment . FAU - Ibrahim , Neama
Epilepsy is a mechanistically complex , incompletely understood neurological disorder . To uncover novel converging mechanisms in epilepsy , we used Drosophila whole-brain single-cell RNA sequencing to refine and characterize a previously proposed human epilepsy-associated gene co-expression network ( GCN ) . We identified a conserved co-expressed module of 26 genes , which comprises fly orthologs of 13 epilepsy-associated genes and integrates synaptic and metabolic functions . Over one-third of the Drosophila pan-neuronal knockdown models targeting this module exhibited altered seizure-like behaviors in response to mechanical or heat stress . These knockdown models recapitulated seizures associated with four epilepsy-associated genes , identified two novel epilepsy candidate genes , and three genes of which knockdown conferred seizure protection . Most knockdown models with altered seizure susceptibility showed changes in metabolic rate and levels of phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) , a key regulator of cellular energy homeostasis . Enhancing AMPK activity increased seizure resistance in a dose-dependent manner . Our findings show that Drosophila single-cell expression data and behavior can aid functional validation of human GCNs and highlight a role for metabolism in modifying seizure susceptibility .
AIMS : Lymphoma-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis ( LA-HLH ) is a rare and life-threatening disorder . While the prognostic nutritional index ( PNI ) has been recognized as an independent prognostic indicator in lymphoma studies , its specific role in LA-HLH has not yet been reported . METHODS : We retrospectively examined clinical characteristics and prognostic factors from 124 LA-HLH patients . RESULTS : 23 patients ( 5% ) had B-cell lymphoma-associated HLH ( B-LA-HLH ) , and 101 cases presented with T or natural killer ( NK ) -cell lymphoma-associated HLH ( T/NK-LA-HLH ) . The median survival time for the entire group was two months , with T/NK-LA-HLH and B-LA-HLH showing median survival times of 6 months and 0 months , respectively , post-HLH diagnosis . The optimal threshold for the prognostic nutritional index ( PNI ) was Analysis of prognostic factors indicated that the HLH onset at lymphoma relapse and a PNI below 5 were independent predictors of inferior overall survival . Patients with a PNI below 5 had a significantly shorter estimated survival duration than those with a PNI of 5 or higher ( p = 003 ) . CONCLUSIONS : The onset of HLH at lymphoma relapse and a low PNI may be considered adverse prognostic indicators for LA-HLH , potentially aiding in risk stratification and informing clinical decisions . FAU - Li , Na
Skeletal stem cells ( SSCs ) have been isolated from various tissues , including periosteum and bone marrow , where they exhibit key functions in bone biology and hematopoiesis , respectively . The role of periosteal SSCs ( P-SSCs ) in bone regeneration and healing has been extensively studied , but their ability to contribute to the bone marrow stroma is still under debate . In the present study , we characterized a mouse whole bone transplantation model that mimics the initial bone marrow necrosis and fatty infiltration seen after injury . Using this model and a lineage tracing approach , we observed the migration of P-SSCs into the bone marrow after transplantation . Once in the bone marrow , P-SSCs are phenotypically and functionally reprogrammed into bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells ( BM-MSCs ) that express high levels of hematopoietic stem cell niche factors such as Cxcl12 and Kitl . In addition , using ex vivo and in vivo approaches , we found that P-SSCs are more resistant to acute stress than BM-MSCs . These results highlight the plasticity of P-SSCs and their potential role in bone marrow regeneration after bone marrow injury .
Talin protein as a mechanosensitive cytoskeleton protein connect the extracellular matrix to the cytoskeleton by linking to integrins and actin , thereby mediating the conversion of mechanical signals into biochemical signals and influencing disease progression . The biological significance of Talin2 in asthma is not well understood . The aim of this study was to elucidate the role of Talin2 in asthma . Mice sensitized and challenged with ovalbumin ( OVA ) or saline and MRC-5 cells were used to investigate the role of Talin2 in the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma . In addition , Talin2 levels were measured in the plasma of control subjects and asthmatic patients . The relationships between Talin2 and clinical variables in asthmatic patients were also examined . Plasma Talin2 levels were higher in asthmatic patients than control subjects . In asthmatic patients , Talin2 levels correlated with FEV1 % pred . , FVC % pred . , and FEV1/FVC , and the blood neutrophils and lymphocyte proportion . The ROC curves for Talin2 levels differed between control subjects and asthmatic patients . Talin2 , Kindlin2 , Integrin beta1 and F-actin levels were significantly increased in MRC-5 cells exposed to Der p 1 , but decreased in MRC-5 cells treated with talin2 siRNA . The BALF and serum levels of cytokines ( IL-4 , IL-5 , and TNF-alpha ) were elevated in OVA mice compared to the control mice . Talin2 , Kindlin2 , Integrin beta1 , and F-actin protein expression in lung tissue was significantly higher in OVA mice than control mice . These results suggest that Talin2 be involved in the pathogenesis of asthma , and may be a marker for asthma .
Subcortical brain structures such as the subthalamic nucleus or the thalamus are involved in regulating motor and cognitive behavior . However , their contribution to perceptual consciousness remains unclear , due to the inherent difficulties of recording subcortical neuronal activity in humans . Here , we asked neurological patients undergoing surgery for deep brain stimulation to detect weak vibrotactile stimuli applied on their hand while recording single neuron activity from the tip of a microelectrode . We isolated putative single neurons in the subthalamic nucleus and thalamus . A significant proportion of neurons modulated their activity while participants were expecting a stimulus . We found that the firing rate of 23% of these neurons differed between detected and undetected stimuli . Our results provide direct neurophysiological evidence of the involvement of the subthalamic nucleus and the thalamus for the detection of vibrotactile stimuli , thereby calling for a less cortico-centric view of the neural correlates of consciousness .
Prenatal alcohol exposure ( PAE ) affects embryonic development , causing a variable fetal alcohol spectrum disorder ( FASD ) phenotype with neurodevelopmental disorders and birth defects . To explore the effects of PAE on gastrulation , we used an in vitro model with subchronic moderate ( 20 mM ) and severe ( 70 mM ) ethanol exposures during the differentiation of human embryonic stem cells into germ layer cells . We analysed genome-wide gene expression ( mRNA sequencing ) , DNA methylation ( EPIC Illumina microarrays ) , and metabolome ( non-targeted LC-MS ) of the endodermal , mesodermal , and ectodermal cells . The largest number of ethanol-induced alterations were observed in endodermal cells , whereas the most prominent changes were in ectodermal cells . Methionine metabolism and genes of the major signaling pathways involved in gastrulation and body patterning were affected by ethanol in all germ layers . Many of the altered genes , including BMP4 , FGF8 , SIX3 , and LHX2 , have previously been associated with PAE and phenotypes of FASD , like defects in heart and corpus callosum development as well as holoprosencephaly . Our findings support the early origin of alcohol-induced developmental disorders and strengthen the role of methionine cycle in the etiology of FASD .
Increasing numbers of clinical cohorts have detected CCND2 mutations in acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) , especially in the subtype of AML with t ( 8 ; 21 ) translocation . As known , this AML subtype is characterized by the formation of AML1-ETO fusion gene . However , AML1-ETO fusion gene alone is not sufficient to drive leukemia development , additional mutations are required for leukemogenesis . In this study , we aim to investigate whether mutated CCND2 can cooperate with AML1-ETO fusion gene to drive leukemia initiation and progression . In our previous study , the conditional AML1-ETO knock-in mouse model ( AML1/ETO mouse ) , which represented a pre-leukemia stage as myeloproliferative neoplasm phenotype , was established . To confirm whether the AML1-ETO and CCND2 mutation can cooperate to drive leukemia , the mice transduction and transplantation model harboring both AML1-ETO and CCND2 gene ( both wildtype and mutant ) were established . Upon the assessment of the phenotype , biological features and survival of the mice , only the mice overexpressing the AML1-ETO and CCND2 simultaneously were eventually progressed to leukemia . Besides , compared to mice overexpressing AML-ETO gene alone , mTOR and cell cycle-related pathways were significantly enriched in mice harboring both AML1-ETO and CCND And the selective mTOR inhibitor , Everolimus , can reduce the leukemia burden and prolong the survival of this group of mice . In conclusion , it was confirmed that introduction of the CCND2 gene into the AML/ETO pre-leukemia mice could trigger the development of leukemia . It was also confirmed that CCND2 overexpression resulted in the upregulation of the mTOR pathway and inhibiting the pathway might be a therapeutic strategy for this subtype of leukemia .
Plant nutrient deficiencies can modify leaf surface properties and may affect the absorption of foliar fertilisers . This study examined how plant P-deficiency modified the adaxial leaf surface morphology of four barley cultivars and whether these modifications could be linked to quantitative differences in foliar-applied P absorption . Four Australian barley cultivars were grown hydroponically under P-sufficient and P-deficient conditions . A P radiolabelled foliar phosphate solution was applied to adaxial leaf surfaces for 2 or 7 days to investigate absorption and translocation . All cultivars showed different responses to P-deficiency ( stomatal density , trichome density , thickness of the epidermal cell wall and cuticle ) . However , no clear trends were observed among the cultivars in their responses to P deficiency . Cultivars absorbed foliar-applied P regardless of plant P status . Remobilisation occurred from the treated leaf to untreated shoots in all but one cultivar . While P-deficient plants absorbed and accumulated significantly less foliar-applied P after 7 days , this was not linked to measured changes in stomatal or trichome density or the thickness of the epidermal cell wall and cuticle . Autoradiographs revealed that P accumulation was limited to newly emerging leaves in P-deficient plants , while P-sufficient plants also remobilized and accumulated P into older leaves and tillers . Relatively high P absorption ( > 65% of foliar-applied P ) in both P-sufficient and P-deficient plants suggests that foliar-applied P may be a useful fertiliser top-up strategy for barley . Due to the lower absorption in P-deficient barley , foliar applications should be made before severe P-deficiency symptoms are apparent to improve absorption .
The ability of cytokine receptors to mediate the internalization of targets in lysosomes positions them as specific and effective effectors for protein degradation strategies . However , challenges remain , including the potential unintended activation of cell-proliferation-related cytokine receptors , as well as limitations in programmability and structural flexibility of protein degradators . In this work , a CXCR7-targeting chimera ( AP-CRTAC ) that functions as a CXCR7 inducer by covalently linking a membrane protein-targeting aptamer with a mutant-CXCL12 mimic peptide is developed . This peptide selectively binds to CXCR7 without activating CXCR The AP-CRTAC , which incorporates various aptamer forms from DNA , RNA , or even bispecific aptamers , has shown significant efficacy in degrading one or more proteins or protein mutants on the cell surface . Moreover , the AP-CRTAC constructed with a 2 ' F-pyrimidine-modified RNA aptamer targeting EGFR effectively degrades various EGFR activating mutations . Notably , AP-CRTAC enhances the sensitivity of the L858R/T790M/C797S triple mutant lung cancer cells , which are resistant to current EGFR-targeted therapies , to the third-generation EGFR inhibitor osimertinib in both in vitro and in vivo settings . This research introduces an engineered CXCR7 inducer with high specificity and programmability for the targeted degradation of cell surface proteins , while minimizing unwanted side effects .
Microphthalmia and coloboma are structural malformations of the eyes that arise from defective morphogenesis and are amongst the most severe defects associated with paediatric blindness . FZD5 is a Wnt receptor expressed in the developing eye and individuals with mutations in FZD5 exhibit microphthalmia/coloboma supporting a role for this receptor in human eye formation . Here we show that zebrafish fzd5 mutants homozygous for complete loss-of-function or predicted dominant-negative alleles , display no obvious eye defects during embryogenesis . Rather , they develop eye defects comparable to those described in humans only upon simultaneous abrogation of additional genes associated with ocular malformations . Thus , eye development can occur normally in the absence of Fzd5 in zebrafish but mutants are sensitised to developing eye malformations . By exploiting the sensitised nature of the fzd5 mutants we further identified aamp as a novel gene involved in eye morphogenesis . Overall , our study confirms the importance of considering multiple genetic contributions when searching for the molecular aetiology of ocular malformations in humans .
OBJECTIVES : We aimed to verify the efficacy and safety of microwave ablation ( MWA ) in combination with third-generation epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) -tyrosine kinase inhibitor ( TKI ) administration for EGFR-mutant advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Individuals with advanced NSCLC and EGFR mutations who underwent third-generation EGFR-TKI treatment and MWA ( EGFR-TKI treatment followed by MWA [Group E + M] and MWA followed by EGFR-TKI treatment [Group M + E] ) were retrospectively enrolled . The primary endpoint was duration of response ( DoR ) . RESULTS : There were 12 patients in Group E + M and 16 in Group M + E . The overall median DoR was 9 months ( 95% confidence interval [CI] : 3-4 ) . The median DoR was 7 months ( 95% CI : 6-9 ) and 5 months ( 95% CI : 9-1 ) in Group E + M and Group M + E ( P = 996 ) , respectively . When EGFR-TKIs were used as a first-line treatment , the median DoR overall and that of patients in Groups E + M and M + E were 3 months ( 95% CI : 2-4 ) , 3 months ( 95% CI : 0-5 ) , and not reached ( P = 252 ) , respectively . Major complications related to pneumothorax were observed in five patients , with no difference observed between the groups . CONCLUSION : Patients with advanced EGFR-mutant NSCLC who underwent third-generation EGFR-TKI treatment plus MWA had a superior DoR and experienced minimal complications .
Sonodynamic therapy ( SDT ) is a non-invasive cancer treatment that uses ultrasound to activate sonosensitizers for selective tumor ablation . With its superior tissue penetration compared to photodynamic therapy , SDT demonstrates the potential to stimulate antitumor immune responses by modulating the tumor microenvironment . However , its clinical application remains limited by poor tumor specificity and suboptimal sonosensitizer accumulation , which reduces efficacy and causes off-target effects . To address these challenges , an Engineered Probiotic-based Calibrated 5-ALA Supply system ( SPEC5 ) is developed to confer tumor selectivity for SDT . Engineered non-pathogenic E . coli with recombinant plasmids enables efficient 5-ALA biosynthesis through kinetic remodeling . Homologous tumor cell membrane cloaking further enhances tumor targeting and immune evasion . Upon intravenous injection , SPEC5 selectively colonizes in the tumor , supporting the sonosensitizer protoporphyrin IX ( PpIX ) in situ biosynthesis via 5-aminolevulinic acid ( 5-ALA ) continuous supply . A hypoxia-inducible promoter regulating O-acetylserine sulfhydrylase ensures the tumor specificity of PpIX production . This system achieves robust sensitizer accumulation in tumors , enhancing SDT efficacy and inducing potent antitumor immune activation with minimal systemic toxicity . Post-treatment , the bacteria are rapidly cleared to ensure safety . This study presents a novel strategy for tumor-specific sonosensitizer supply , revolutionizing 5-ALA-based SDT and paving the way for advanced tumor-targeted therapies with enhanced immunotherapeutic outcomes .
The silicon microparticles ( SiMPs ) offer a promising solution for high-energy-density lithium-ion battery systems . However , the inevitable volume expansion ( >300% ) of SiMPs during alloying often leads to particle breakage , interface rupture , and electrode separation , resulting in rapid capacity decay . Herein , an effective strategy is proposed for designing a novel solid-liquid hybrid electrode ( Si@EGaSn ) for high-energy-density flexible lithium-ion batteries . The Si@EGaSn electrode has a liquid-phase top layer containing SiMPs and a solid-phase copper gallium alloy bottom layer . The top layer can not only electrically connect the fractured SiMPs , but also form a stable solid electrolyte interface during alloying processes . The bottom layer can firmly adhere the electrodes to the current collector . Consequently , the optimal Si@EGaSn electrode delivers a highly reversible capacity of 1 mAh g ( -1 ) at 5 A g ( -1 ) and a high capacity retention of >99% during 200 cycles . After loading the electrode into metallic textiles , the assembled high-voltage pouch cell of NCM811//Si@EGaSn shows a high areal capacity of 2 mAh cm ( -2 ) , high volumetric energy density of 500 Wh L ( -1 ) and negligible capacity decay during 3000 flexing cycles at a small bending radius of 0 mm . This work provides a new electrode design approach to achieve high-energy-density flexible lithium-ion batteries .
Macrophages are central to innate immunity and are routinely used in vitro to examine molecular mechanisms contributing to innate immune signaling . However , there is a lack of consensus within the field for optimal in vitro culturing methods , and it is not well understood whether differences in culture conditions produce incongruent outcomes . Here , we compared the effects of commonly used culture medium compositions on TLR4-mediated pro-inflammatory activity in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages ( hMDM ) isolated from healthy blood donors . hMDM were cultured in fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) -containing or FBS-free conditions in either DMEM , RPMI , or in Macrophage-Serum Free Medium ( M-SFM ) . LPS-mediated immune response was measured through NF-kappaB activation and cytokine and chemokine secretion , which were muted in M-SFM cultures compared to DMEM and RPMI cultures . FBS supplementation increased total cytokine secretion in response to LPS but also showed higher baseline secretion , suggesting a pro-inflammatory phenotype . Moreover , M-SFM cultures exhibited less phagocytosis compared to DMEM and RPMI cultures . Morphologic analysis of unstimulated hMDM revealed the highest cell area and length-to-width ratio in M-SFM compared to DMEM or RPMI cultures . FBS-free and M-SFM conditions produced distinct transcriptional profiles compared to media supplemented with FBS , most notably in cell cycle pathways and lipid homeostasis , respectively . Overall , DMEM and RPMI produce comparable morphologic and functional results , albeit with some small differences , while M-SFM produces a muted inflammatory response in macrophages . These data demonstrate that in vitro microenvironment drives differential inflammatory outcomes in human macrophages and is a critical component of experimental design in this cell type .
Stiffening of the aorta is a key antecedent to cardiovascular diseases ( CVD ) with aging . Age-related aortic stiffening is driven , in part , by cellular senescence-a hallmark of aging defined primarily by irreversible cell cycle arrest . In this study , we assessed the efficacy of 25-hydroxycholesterol ( 25HC ) , an endogenous cholesterol metabolite , as a naturally occurring senolytic to reverse vascular cell senescence and reduce aortic stiffness in old mice . Old ( 22-26 months ) p16-3MR mice , a transgenic model allowing for genetic clearance of p16-positive senescent cells with ganciclovir ( GCV ) , were administered vehicle , 25HC , or GCV to compare the efficacy of the experimental 25HC senolytic versus genetic clearance of senescent cells . We found that short-term ( 5d ) treatment with 25HC reduced aortic stiffness in vivo , assessed via aortic pulse wave velocity ( p = 002 ) to a similar extent as GCV . Ex vivo 25HC exposure of aorta rings from the old p16-3MR GCV-treated mice did not further reduce elastic modulus ( measure of intrinsic mechanical stiffness ) , demonstrating that 25HC elicited its beneficial effects on aortic stiffness , in part , through the suppression of excess senescent cells . Improvements in aortic stiffness with 25HC were accompanied by favorable remodeling of structural components of the vascular wall ( e . g . , lower collagen-1 abundance and higher alpha-elastin content ) to a similar extent as GCV . Moreover , 25HC suppressed its putative molecular target CRYAB , modulated CRYAB-regulated senescent cell anti-apoptotic pathways , and reduced markers of cellular senescence . The findings from this study identify 25HC as a potential therapy to target vascular cell senescence and reduce age-related aortic stiffness .
An anal fissure is a benign and painful ulcer extending from the pectinate line to the anal margin . It leads to an increase in the resting pressure of the internal anal sphincter and the pressure within the anal canal , resulting in local ischemia and impaired wound healing . Anal fissures are mostly located in the posterior midline . They are primarily caused by local trauma to the anoderm , often due to the passage of hard stools , irritation from diarrhea , or anorectal surgery . For both acute and chronic anal fissures , several treatment options are available , and surgery typically reserved as a second-line option . Recent trends in first-line therapy prefer calcium channel blockers ( CCBs ) over topical glyceryl trinitrate ( GTN ) , as they offer similar healing rates but are associated with fewer side effects and better patient ' s compliance . Lateral internal sphincterotomy ( LIS ) remains the gold-standard surgical treatment for this condition . Additionally , emerging therapies , such as platelet-rich plasma ( PRP ) application , adipose-derived regenerative cells ( ADRCs ) , and percutaneous tibial nerve stimulation ( PTNS ) , have shown promising results and they are gaining attention as potential alternatives for managing chronic anal fissures . The present narrative review aims to provide a comprehensive overview of current therapeutic approaches for anal fissures , evaluating their effectiveness in promoting healing and comparing them with guideline-based recommendations . FAU - Dominguez-Munoz , Marta
Cyanogroup ( -CN ) is a strongly electron-withdrawing and highly polar functional group ; therefore , cyanation has been extensively utilized to optimize the terminal groups of high-performance small-molecule acceptors ( SMAs ) in organic solar cells ( OSCs ) . Herein , by regulating the cyanobenzene substitution in the central core for the first time , four novel SMAs are synthesized , named phCN-F , phCN-Cl , 2phCN-F , and 2phCN-Cl . Theoretical and experimental analyses have shown that asymmetric and symmetric cyanobenzene-substitution of the central core , coupled with selective terminal groups , can significantly affect the intrinsic excitonic properties of the molecule . Blends based on asymmetric cyanobenzene-substitution molecules possess tighter molecular packing and more suitable phase separation to facilitate exciton dissociation , charge transport , and charge extraction . The optimal device performance of the phCN-F-based OSC reaches 16% , which is significantly higher than that of symmetrically substituted OSCs . Furthermore , devices prepared based on phCN-F maintain over 90% of their initial efficiency after being heated at 85 degrees C for 3000 h , demonstrating excellent thermal stability . This study elucidates the potential mechanisms for optimizing device performance through asymmetric cyanobenzene-substitution of the central core , providing valuable insights for the further design of record-breaking SMAs .
We developed a novel approach for generating rat offspring using rat embryonic stem ( ES ) cell-derived sperm produced in mice with the blastocyst complementation method . By optimizing culture conditions , we established naive male rat ES cells from two transgenic rat strains expressing EGFP and Venus fluorescence , respectively . The pluripotency of these cells was confirmed by the formation of germline chimeras . These ES cells were then injected into blastocysts of germ cell-deficient mice , which resulted in chimeric mice with the ability to produce rat-derived sperm . Histological analysis confirmed the presence of seminiferous tubules and spermatozoa , which are morphologically characteristic of rats , in the chimeric testes . To evaluate the fertilization potential of the chimeric mouse sperm , we performed intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) to rat oocytes and successfully produced viable offspring carrying ES cell-derived traits . This method eliminates concerns regarding host cell contribution , as all sperm in the chimeras originate from rats , enabling the use of nonfluorescent cells . Furthermore , the absence of competition with host cells is expected to enhance sperm production efficiency . By utilizing germ cell-deficient mice as recipients , this approach offers a cost-effective and efficient strategy for generating genetically modified rats , addressing key limitations in rat ES cell-based genetic engineering .
Bladder cancer ( BCa ) is a highly invasive tumor with few successful therapies , and its unfavorable prognosis mainly stems from late diagnosis and resistance to treatment . Ferroptosis is a type of non-apoptotic cell death characterized by iron-dependent regulated necrosis due to extensive lipid peroxidation . Glycolysis is fundamental to cancer cell metabolism , with cancer cells developing various strategies to enhance this process . In this study , we combined ferroptosis and glycolysis gene sets , two biological processes closely related to tumorigenesis and development , and obtained ferroptosis and glycolysis-related gene sets ( FGRGs ) . By leveraging both single-cell and bulk transcriptome data from BCa , we have investigated the presence and role of FGRGs in the onset and progression of BCa through various approaches . Using machine learning algorithms , we identified a feature gene set consisting of 13 genes in the TCGA data set to predict the prognosis of BCa and verified it in the GEO data set . After that , we explored FGRGs in depth using a variety of bioinformatics analyses , such as mutational landscape analysis , functional enrichment analysis , immune infiltration analysis , FGRGs-associated risk and clinical characterization , and drug susceptibility analysis . Finally , we validated the function of the core gene chondroitin polymerizing factor 2 ( CHPF2 ) using CCK-8 , clone formation , transwell , and wound healing assays . Our research innovatively combines ferroptosis with glycolytic genes and applies it as an independent prognostic factor in the study of BCa . It reveals new characteristic genes and therapeutic targets that can predict the prognosis of BCa patients and lays a foundation for the study of the occurrence and development mechanism of BCa and targeted data strategies .
Emerging evidence suggests that dysregulated RNA-binding proteins ( RBPs ) are associated with a wide variety of cancers . However , the exact roles and pathways of RBPs in the tumorigenesis of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) , the most common subtype of liver cancer , remain largely unknown . Here , we systematically searched for altered RBP candidates in HCC through multi-omics data integrative analyses and identified that GPATCH4 gene is amplified in >70% HCC patients and its high expression predicts poor prognosis . We mapped the in vivo RNA binding sites of GPATCH4 by iCLIP-seq and characterized that GPATCH4 primarily bound ribosomal RNA ( rRNAs ) . GPATCH4 promoted HCC cell proliferation and transformation both in vitro and in vivo through increasing rRNA transcription and global protein synthesis . GPATCH4 is mainly localized in the nucleolus and helps to unwind RNA loops formed at the rDNA through interacting with DDX21 via its C-terminal intrinsically disordered region . Removal of accumulated R-loops induced by GPATCH4 depletion rescued decreased rRNA transcription and cell proliferation . Taken together , we characterized the understudied GPATCH4 as an RBP with oncogenic function in HCC and revealed a new mechanism by which GPATCH4 functions as a regulator of nucleolar R-loops to control rRNA transcription through interacting with DDX
In the past two decades , tremendous efforts for increasing the efficiency of ribosomal incorporation of backbone-modifying nonproteinogenic amino acids ( npAAs ) have been made and given significant successes . For instance , the use of an engineered body sequence of transfer RNA ( tRNA ) , known as tRNAPro1E2 , that efficiently recruits EF-Tu and EF-P significantly improves consecutive incorporation of npAAs , giving a notion that certain protein factors paired with right tRNAs can enhance their incorporation efficiency . However , the consecutive incorporation of certain npAAs , e . g . N-methyl-l-leucine , remains more challenging . Here we have explored Escherichia coli ATP-binding cassette family-F proteins ( EttA , Uup , YbiT , and YhsS ) and RbbA for a possibility of enhancing the translation efficiency for such npAAs since these proteins are known to alleviate nascent peptide-dependent translation arrest . Indeed , among them the presence of Uup increases the translation level of model peptides bearing two consecutive npAAs by an average of 7-fold for 12 kinds of npAAs and that of a macrocyclic peptide bearing d-alpha-amino , N-methyl-l-alpha-amino , and beta-amino acids by 8-fold . Moreover , the combination of EF-P and Uup further enhances the incorporation of npAAs charged on tRNAPro1E2 , demonstrating a four-fold enhancement for two consecutive incorporations of N-methyl-l-leucine .
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) presents a substantial clinical challenge due to its aggressive nature and resistance to conventional therapies , thereby developing novel treatment strategies is critical . In this work , we take advantage of the insensitivity of heat shock protein ( HSP ) expression in senescent tumor cells to combine mild photothermal therapy ( MPTT ) for efficient DLBCL treatment . Insensitivity to HSPs implies that cells are less capable of activating their usual stress protection mechanisms during MPTT , which reduces their tolerance to heat damage . Consequently , the treatment can more effectively destroy target cells at lower temperatures while minimizing the risk of thermal injury to surrounding healthy tissues . Abemaciclib can inhibit CDK4/6 activity , thereby inhibiting Rb phosphorylation to suppress the activity of the E2F transcription factor and prevent the transition from G1 to S phase , leading to cell cycle arrest and ultimately cellular senescence . The experimental results indicated that abemaciclib effectively promoted the senescence of DLBCL cells , accompanied by a significant reduction in HSP70 expression . Subsequently , a novel near-infrared ( NIR ) absorbing organic polymer photothermal agent ( PYIT-OD ) with excellent optical properties and photostability was used for MPTT . The integration of pro-senescence strategies with MPTT , as evidenced by both in vitro and in vivo experimental outcomes , markedly enhanced treatment efficacy , effectively reducing damage to normal tissues at mild temperatures and enhancing antitumor effects . This work not only reveals potential biological mechanisms but also provides theoretical foundations and practical guidance for developing more precise and less toxic DLBCL treatment regimens in clinical practice . FAU - Kang , Yehui
OBJECTIVE : In vivo transcription factor ( TF ) -mediated gene therapy through astrocyte-to-neuron ( AtN ) conversion has shown therapeutic effects on rodent and non-human primate cortical ischemic injury in the subacute phase . However , in the clinic , subcortical regions including striatum as well as white matter are vulnerable regions of stroke , with millions of patients beyond subacute phase . In this study , we investigate whether TF-mediated AtN conversion therapy can be extended to treat chronic-phase ischemic stroke involving subcortical regions ( e . g . , striatum ) and white matter , beyond cortical injuries . METHODS : Rat middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) -like models were established to induce broad ischemic injuries including cortical and striatal regions . Then multiple rounds of TF-mediated gene therapy treatments through adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) system to cover the large-scaled infarct areas were conducted in the chronic phase of the stroke models . Magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , [F] FDG-PET/CT , behavioral tests , immunohistochemistry and bulk-RNA seq were applied to evaluate the AtN conversion , tissue repair and functional recovery . RESULTS : Our results revealed that administrated in the chronic phase of ischemic stroke , TF-mediated gene therapy can efficiently regenerate new neurons in both cortical and striatal regions , and promote tissue repair in both grey and white matter . Compared with single round of AAV administration , multiple rounds of treatment regenerated more neurons and led to a significant functional recovery . CONCLUSIONS : Our study demonstrates that TF-mediated gene therapy has a broad therapeutic time window and can be applied multiple rounds to treat severe ischemic stroke , making it an attractive therapeutic intervention in the chronic phase after stroke , when current approaches are largely ineffective .
Microphysiological systems , such as multicellular spheroids , hold great promise for drug screening experiments . Spheroids may be dosed statically , where the drug is introduced to the growing chamber at one time point , or dynamically , where the drug is introduced via a fluidic component . Dynamic dosing can generate pharmacokinetic curves that more closely represent those seen in vivo than static dosing . In this work , we demonstrate the dynamic dosing of colorectal cancer spheroids in a 3D printed fluidic device with liposomal doxorubicin . Spheroids are valuable models to evaluate dynamic dosing , as they recapitulate the nutrient , oxygen , and pH gradients of solid tumors . Spheroids feature distinct cellular populations with a necrotic core , quiescent middle layer , and proliferative outer layer . Drug and liposome penetration are tracked with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging ( MALDI MSI ) and fluorescence imaging , showing that liposomal doxorubicin is stable to fluidic dosing and penetrates spheroids after 48 h . To provide a comprehensive pharmacodynamic profile of the distinct cellular regions within spheroids , we employ spatially stable isotopic labeling by amino acids in cell culture ( spatial SILAC ) proteomics to isotopically label the core and outer layers . Proteomic analysis reveals 714 upregulated proteins in the core upon treatment and 30 in the outer layers , as well as 103 downregulated proteins in the core and 1276 in the outer layers . Spatial SILAC uncovers the differential regulation of proteins associated with glycolysis , the TCA cycle , and lipid synthesis upon drug treatment between the spheroid core and outer layers . Using MALDI MSI and spatial SILAC proteomics , we interrogate the effects of dynamic dosing with liposomal doxorubicin on spheroid regions that would be overlooked by bulk analysis . FAU - Lopez , Arbil
Recent research highlighted the contribution of extracellular matrix , and particularly of ADAMTS proteases , in immune regulation . Now , our work with melanoma and mammary tumor models revealed that tumor blockade induced by the lack of Adamts1 led to an increased vascular deposition of its substrate , the basement membrane glycoprotein NIDOGEN-1 ( NID1 ) . Significantly , the overexpression of NID1 in the melanoma syngeneic model also blocked tumor progression , disclosing an overlapping phenotype with the absence of Adamts These tumors showed important alterations in their immune infiltrates , emphasizing an enhanced presence of antitumorigenic macrophages and a global inflammatory landscape . We corroborated in vitro that full length NID1 , but not its fragments , promoted an M1-like macrophage polarization , mainly mediated by the alphavbeta3 integrin . Significantly , the projection of RNA-seq from our tumor models to two large human melanoma datasets allowed us to discover a new gene signature associated with good prognosis and the abundance of M1-like macrophages . These results support NID1 as a novel tumor suppressor with immunomodulatory properties , and unveil the existence of key oncological drivers in the extracellular scenario . FAU - Caracuel-Peramos , Rita
Honey bees ( Apis mellifera L . ) are of undeniable value to agriculture . However , increased mortality of honey bees , mostly due to winter losses associated with parasites and pathogens , have put strain on the apiculture industry . Advancing our knowledge of honey bee viruses and their interactions within the colony environment is vital in mitigating their effect on honey bee health . Our study examined virus sequences detected on beeswax sampled from empty colonies which died during the previous winter . Based on a cage study using virus-containing bees , we confirmed that the introduction of BQCV sequences to wax foundation was possible through workers walking on , and contacting , comb surfaces ( worker traffic ) . Furthermore , we found that BQCV may aerosolize within an incubator to contaminate wax at detectable levels among independent cages . A second cage study explored the potential effects of virus aerosolization on transmission between groups of adult worker bees within cages , having no direct contact . This experiment did not support aerosol transmission between groups of bees in confined spaces . Further work on waxborne virus transmission within colony environments , and potential effects of aerosolization under a wider array of conditions , is crucial to broadening our knowledge of honey bee virus transmission . Our work also highlights potential dangers for beekeepers re-using equipment from dead colonies .
The presence of B cells in tumors is correlated with favorable prognosis and efficient response to immunotherapy . While tumor-reactive antibodies have been detected in several cancer types , identifying antibodies that specifically target tumor-associated antigens remains a challenge . Here , we investigated the antibodies spontaneously elicited during breast and lung cancer that bind the cancer-associated antigen MET . We screened patients with lung ( n = 25 ) and breast ( n = 75 ) cancer and found that 13% had antibodies binding to both the recombinant ectodomain of MET , and the ligand binding part of MET , SEMA . MET binding in the breast cancer cohort was significantly correlated with hormone receptor-positive status . We further conducted immunoglobulin sequencing of peripheral MET-enriched B cells from 6 MET-reactive patients . The MET-enriched B cell repertoire was found to be polyclonal and prone to non-IgG1 subclass . Nine monoclonal antibodies were cloned and analyzed , and these exhibited MET binding , low thermostability , and high polyreactivity . Among these , antibodies 87B156 and 69B287 effectively bound to tumor cells and inhibited MET-expressing breast cancer cell lines . Overall , our data demonstrate that some patients with breast and lung cancer develop polyreactive antibodies that cross-react with MET . These autoantibodies have a potential contribution to immune responses against tumors . FAU - Navon , Michal
Microvascular rarefaction substantially contributes to renal dysfunction following ischemia-reperfusion injury ( IRI ) . We characterized the microRNA signature of extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) released during endothelial apoptosis to identify biomarkers and regulators of microvascular rarefaction and renal dysfunction . Using in vitro models and RNA-Seq , we found miR-423-5p , let-7b-5p , and let-7c-5p enriched in small EVs from apoptotic endothelial cells . In mouse models of renal IRI and a cohort of 51 patients who have undergone renal transplant with delayed graft function , serum miR-423-5p correlated with circulating EVs , while let-7b-5p and let-7c-5p were also present in free form . Early acute kidney injury saw increased serum miR-423-5p levels linked to small EVs with endothelial markers . Over time , higher serum miR-423-5p levels were associated with large EVs and correlated with greater renal microvascular density and reduced fibrosis . Microvascular density and fibrosis predicted renal function 3 years after transplantation . We explored miR-423-5p ' s role in renal homeostasis , finding that its injection during renal IRI preserved microvascular density and inhibited fibrosis . Endothelial cells transfected with miR-423-5p showed enhanced resistance to apoptosis , increased migration , and angiogenesis . Localized miR-423-5p injection in hindlimb ischemia model accelerated revascularization . These findings position miR-423-5p as a predictor of renal microvascular rarefaction and fibrosis , highlighting potential strategies for preserving renal function . FAU - Migneault , Francis
The cardiopulmonary vasculature and its associated endothelial cells ( ECs ) play an essential role in sustaining life by ensuring the delivery of oxygen and nutrients . Beyond these foundational functions , ECs serve as key regulators of immune responses . Recent advances in single-cell RNA sequencing have revealed that the cardiopulmonary vasculature is composed of diverse EC subpopulations , some of which exhibit specialized immunomodulatory properties . Evidence for immunomodulation includes distinct expression profiles associated with antigen presentation , cytokine secretion , immune cell recruitment , translocation , and clearance - functions critical for maintaining homeostasis in the heart and lungs . In cardiopulmonary diseases , ECs undergo substantial transcriptional reprogramming , leading to a shift from homeostasis to an activated state marked by heightened immunomodulatory activity . This transformation has highlighted the critical role for ECs in disease pathogenesis and their potential as future therapy targets . This Review emphasizes the diverse functions of ECs in the heart and lungs , particularly adaptive and maladaptive immunoregulatory roles in cardiopulmonary health and disease . FAU - Fliesser , Elisabeth
Pregnancy is an immunological paradox where despite a competent maternal immune system , regulatory mechanisms at the fetoplacental interface and maternal secondary lymphoid tissues ( SLTs ) circumvent rejection of semi-allogeneic concepti . Small extracellular vesicles ( sEVs ) are a vehicle for intercellular communication ; nevertheless , the role of fetoplacental sEVs in transport of antigens to maternal SLTs has not been conclusively demonstrated . Using mice in which the conceptus generates fluoroprobe-tagged sEVs shed by the plasma membrane or released from the endocytic compartment , we show that fetoplacental sEVs are delivered to immune cells in the maternal spleen . Injection of sEVs from placentas of females impregnated with Act-mOVA B6 males elicited suboptimal activation of OVA-specific CD8+ OT-I T cells in virgin females as occurs during pregnancy . Furthermore , when OVA+ concepti were deficient in Rab27a , a protein required for sEV secretion , OT-I cell proliferation in the maternal spleen was decreased . Proteomics analysis revealed that mouse trophoblast sEVs were enriched in antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive mediators . Translational relevance was tested in humanized mice injected using sEVs from cultures of human trophoblasts . Our findings show that sEVs deliver fetoplacental antigens to the mother ' s SLTs that are recognized by maternal T cells . Alterations of such a mechanism may lead to pregnancy disorders . FAU - Powell , Juliana S
Stem cells play a pivotal role in the malignant behavior of gastric cancer ( GC ) , complicating its treatment and prognosis . However , the regulatory mechanisms of GC stem cells ( GCSCs ) remain poorly understood . DAZ-associated protein 1 ( DAZAP1 ) , a splicing regulator linked to various malignancies , has an unclear role in GC . This study investigated DAZAP1 ' s impact on GC stemness and its mechanisms . DAZAP1 promoted tumor progression in GCSCs , as shown by sphere formation assays and stemness marker analysis . Functional enrichment analysis suggested that DAZAP1 enhanced tumor stemness by promoting oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) , which was validated through Seahorse assays and measurements of mitochondrial potential . Transmission electron microscopy and immunofluorescence analyses demonstrated that DAZAP1 promoted mitophagy . RNA immunoprecipitation and PCR analysis revealed that DAZAP1 regulated the splicing and expression of the mitophagy-related gene ULK1 through nonsense-mediated mRNA decay . Rescue experiments showed that overexpression of ULK1 reversed the suppression of GC stemness and OXPHOS levels induced by DAZAP1 silencing . Our findings indicate that DAZAP1 reduces ULK1 decay , thereby activating mitophagy and enhancing OXPHOS to fulfill the metabolic demands of cancer stem cells . These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of DAZAP1 as a target for treating GC . FAU - Zhang , Peiling
Expanding the repertoire of CAR therapies to include intracellular antigens holds promise for treating a broad spectrum of malignancies . TCR-like T cells , capable of recognizing intracellular antigen-derived peptides in complex with HLA molecules ( pHLA ) , represent a promising strategy in the field of engineered cellular therapy . This study introduced antibody-like TCR ( abTCR ) T cells that specifically targeted HLA-A*02 : 01-restricted LMP2426 peptides , a typical Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) latency II protein , for the treatment of EBV-associated lymphoproliferative diseases ( EBV-LPDs ) . Compared with classic CAR T cells targeting the same epitope , abTCR T cells demonstrated superior efficiency , including increased CD107A expression , enhanced cytotoxicity , and elevated IFN-gamma secretion , even when engaging with target cells that naturally present antigens . Moreover , a costimulatory signal-armed abTCR ( Co-abTCR ) , which integrated a costimulatory structure with the abTCR , further enhanced the proliferation and in vivo tumoricidal efficacy of transfected T cells . Collectively , our study developed a potentially novel TCR-like T cell therapy that targets HLA-A*02/LMP2426 for the treatment of EBV-LPDs , providing a potential therapeutic solution for targeting of intracellular antigens in cancer immunotherapy . FAU - Cheng , Jiali
Dry age-related macular degeneration ( AMD ) is a leading cause of untreatable vision loss . In advanced cases , retinal pigment epithelium ( RPE ) cell loss occurs alongside photoreceptor and choriocapillaris degeneration . We hypothesized that an RPE-patch would mitigate photoreceptor and choriocapillaris degeneration to restore vision . An induced pluripotent stem cell-derived RPE ( iRPE ) patch was developed using a clinically compatible manufacturing process by maturing iRPE cells on a biodegradable poly ( lactic-co-glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) scaffold . To compare outcomes , we developed a surgical procedure for immediate sequential delivery of PLGA-iRPE and/or PLGA-only patches in the subretinal space of a pig model of laser-induced outer retinal degeneration . Deep learning algorithm-based optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) image segmentation verified preservation of the photoreceptors over the areas of PLGA-iRPE-transplanted retina and not in laser-injured or PLGA-only-transplanted retina . Adaptive optics imaging of individual cone photoreceptors further supported this finding . OCT-angiography revealed choriocapillaris regeneration in PLGA-iRPE- and not in PLGA-only-transplanted retinas . Our data , obtained using clinically relevant techniques , verified that PLGA-iRPE supports photoreceptor survival and regenerates choriocapillaris in a laser-injured pig retina . Sequential delivery of two 8 mm2 transplants allows for testing of surgical feasibility and safety of the double dose . This work allows one surgery to treat larger and noncontiguous retinal degeneration areas . FAU - Gupta , Rohan
OBJECTIVES : To investigate the association between social determinants of health , as measured by the social vulnerability index ( SVI ) , with outcomes in patients with human papillomavirus ( HPV ) -associated oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( OPSCC ) . METHODS : This study included patients from Illinois with HPV-OPSCC from 2007 to State-level SVI measured neighborhood-level disadvantage and associations between SVI and clinicodemographic factors , clinical presentation , and outcomes were analyzed using logistic regression for advanced preliminary staging , while survival and recurrence were assessed within the framework of a Cox proportional hazards model . RESULTS : Higher overall ( high vulnerability ) and racial-ethnicity SVI scores were significantly associated with increased odds of advanced clinical staging ( OR=12 , P=041 ; OR=16 , P=026 ) on univariable analysis . Multivariable analysis showed that minority race was significantly associated with advanced clinical staging ( OR=50 , P<001 ) . Overall survival was significantly associated with insurance payer type and age , where Medicaid/uninsured status had higher mortality compared with Medicare in both the univariable and multivariable setting ( HR=47 , P=006 ; HR=93 , P=019 ) . The same held for age , where increased age at diagnosis was significantly associated with higher mortality ( HR=07 , P<001 ; HR=10 , P<001 ) . Recurrence-free survival was significantly associated with age ( HR=04 , P=004 ) and payer type , with Medicaid/uninsured patients having 4 times the hazard of patients with Medicare ( HR=16 , P=009 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Higher overall and racial ethnicity SVI may be associated with advanced clinical staging upon presentation . Individual factors such as race , age , and insurance status are significantly associated with patient prognosis .
Although chronic inflammation is implicated in the pathogenesis of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) , the mechanisms responsible are unknown . We demonstrate that the overexpression of the collagen receptor , DDR1 , correlates with reduced expression of spindle checkpoint genes , with three transcriptional signatures of aneuploidy and with a higher frequency of copy number alterations , pointing to a potential role for DDR1 in the acquisition of aneuploidy in DLBCL . In support of this , we found that collagen treatment of primary germinal centre B cells transduced with DDR1 , not only partially recapitulated the aberrant transcriptional programme of DLBCL but also downregulated the expression of CENPE , a mitotic spindle that has a crucial role in preventing chromosome mis-segregation . CENPE expression was also downregulated following DDR1 activation in two B-cell lymphoma lines and was lost in most DDR1-expressing primary tumours . Crucially , the inhibition of CENPE and the overexpression of a constitutively activated DDR1 were able to induce aneuploidy in vitro . Our findings identify a novel mechanistic link between DDR1 signalling and chromosome instability in B cells and provide novel insights into factors driving aneuploidy in DLBCL .
Lipid membrane deformations have been predicted to lead to indirect forces between the objects that induce these deformations . Recent experimental measurements have found an attractive interaction between spherical particles that all induce a deformation towards the inside of a giant unilamellar vesicle . Here , we complement these experimental observations by investigating the interactions between deformations pointing in opposite directions with respect to the membrane normal vector . This is experimentally realized by a particle deforming the membrane towards the inside of the GUV and pulling a membrane tube towards the outside of the membrane . Particles completely wrapped by the membrane are repelled from the tube with a strength of 3 k ( B ) T at a distance of 5 mum . However , particles that strongly curve the membrane by adhering only to a patch of about 50% of its surface area are attracted to the center of the tube with a strength of -3 k ( B ) T at a minimum distance of about 1 mum . We find that such Janus particles also experience attractive interactions when both deforming the membrane in the same way . These quantitative experimental observations provide new insights into interactions between oppositely membrane deforming objects , important for cooperative protein assembly at or interactions of microplastics with cell membranes . FAU - Azadbakht , Ali
Eleven alkaloids ( 1-11 ) including four new ones tuoliensines A-D ( 1-4 ) were isolated from the fruiting body of Pleurotus tuoliensis using 95% ethanol heating reflux extraction . Their structures characterisation through chemical and spectral analyses classified these compounds as indole , pyridazine , and pyrrole alkaloids . The absolute constructions of the new compounds were identity by comparing computational and experimental electron circular dichroism ( ECD ) data . Furthermore , The antitumor activity of compounds 1-11 was analysed against HGC-27 cell line . The findings revealed that compound 5 had a significant inhibitory effect with an IC value of 93 microM , which is superior to that of cisplatin ( 58 +/- 17 microM ) . Additionally , compounds 1-4 displayed promising HGC-27 cell inhibition with IC values of 14 , 53 , 68 , 89 microM . FAU - Li , Chunyi
Retraction of ' Impact of Ce doping on the optoelectronic and structural properties of a CsPbIBr perovskite solar cell ' by M . I . Khan et al . , Phys . Chem . Chem . Phys . , 2024 , 26 , 4166-4173 , https : //doi . org/1039/D3CP05339C . FAU - Khan , M I
Aqueous deep eutectic electrolytes ( DEEs ) offer great potential for low-cost zinc-ion batteries but often have limited performance . Discovering new electrolytes is therefore crucial , yet time-consuming and resource-intensive . In response , this work presents a Large Language Model ( LLM ) -based multi-agent network that proposes DEE compositions for zinc-ion batteries . By analyzing academic papers from the DEE field , the network identifies innovative , inexpensive , and sustainable Lewis bases to pair with Zn ( BF ) . xHO . A Zn ( BF ) . xHO-ethylene carbonate ( EC ) system demonstrates high conductivity ( 6 mS cm ( -1 ) ) and a wide electrochemical stability window ( 37 V ) . The optimized electrolyte enables stable zinc stripping/plating , achieves outstanding rate performance ( 81 mAh g ( -1 ) at 5 A g ( -1 ) ) , and supports 4000 cycles in Zn||polyaniline cells at 3 A g ( -1 ) . Spectroscopic analyses and simulations reveal that EC coordinates to Zn ( 2+ ) ( , ) mitigating water-induced corrosion , while a fluorine-rich hybrid organic/inorganic solid electrolyte interphase enhances stability . This work showcases a pioneering LLM-driven approach to electrolyte development , establishing a new paradigm in materials research .
Professor Muzlifah ' Muzz ' Haniffa is a Wellcome Senior Research Fellow , Head of Cellular Genetics Programme at the Wellcome Sanger Institute in Cambridge , UK ; Professor of Dermatology and Immunology at Newcastle University , UK ; and a Developmental Biological Network Co-Coordinator for the Human Cell Atlas . Muzz ' s research spans the fields of immunology , dermatology , developmental biology and genomics . We spoke to Muzz on Teams , following her receipt of the 2025 Tickle Medal from the British Society for Developmental Biology , to learn more about her career and her motivations .
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) is a leading cause of morbidity and disability , with mild TBI ( concussions ) representing over 80% of cases . Although often considered benign , mild TBI is associated with persistent neuropsychiatric conditions , including post-traumatic stress disorder , anxiety , and depression . A hallmark of these conditions is impaired fear extinction ( FE ) , the process by which learned fear responses are inhibited in safe contexts . This dysfunction contributes to maladaptive fear expression and is linked to altered neurocircuitry , particularly in the infralimbic cortex ( IL ) , a key region in FE . Despite extensive evidence of impaired FE in patients with mild TBI and animal models , the specific mechanisms underlying this deficit remain poorly understood . This study aimed to address this gap by combining cued-FE behavior , local field potential recordings , and whole-cell patch-clamp techniques to investigate how mild TBI affects IL network activity and excitability in a mouse model of TBI . Our results demonstrate that mild lateral fluid percussion injury significantly impairs FE memory , as evidenced by an elevated cued-fear response during extinction testing 10 days post-injury . Field potential recordings revealed decreased activation of the IL network in both layers II/III and V , which was consistent with the observed behavioral deficits . Further analysis of synaptic physiology revealed an imbalance in excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission ( E/I imbalance ) in the IL , characterized by reduced excitatory input and enhanced inhibitory input to neurons in both layers . Moreover , intrinsic excitability was altered in IL neurons after mild TBI . This study provides novel insights into how mild TBI disrupts the neurocircuitry underlying FE , specifically by suppressing IL excitability . These results highlight the importance of understanding the mechanistic disruptions in IL activity for developing therapeutic strategies to address fear-based disorders in patients with mild TBI . FAU - Ubri , Catherine E
The aim of this study was to compare immune response against SARS-CoV-2 in Balb/C mice when self-amplifying RNA lipid nanoparticles ( saRNA LNPs ) combined with TLR4 Agonist ( monophosphoryl lipid A ) as the adjuvant 1 and TLR9 Agonist ( CpG ) as the adjuvant Here , we found that the size distribution of saRNA LNPs was 88-165 nm with a mean size of 126 nm . Although TLR4 Agonist ( adjuvant 1 ) and TLR9 Agonist ( adjuvant 2 ) could increase the expression of S-protein in HEK293T/17 cells compared with saRNA LNPs alone , the combination of both adjuvants had a significant effect on the expression of the S-protein . Moreover , combining TLR4 Agonist ( adjuvant 1 ) and TLR9 Agonist ( adjuvant 2 ) increased the antibody ( IgG and IgA ) titer . Here , the ratio of IgG2a/IgG1 showed a T helper type 1-biased response . ELISpot test showed the mice vaccinated with saRNA LNPs+ TLR4 Agonist and TLR9 Agonist had significantly more secreting cells compared with other vaccinated mice ( p < 05 ) . The secretion of interleukin ( IL ) -4 and interferons ( IFN ) -gamma by re-stimulated splenocytes confirmed these data . Significant differences in concentration of IL-4 and IFN-gamma produced by activated splenocytes were also seen in the mice vaccinated with saRNA LNPs+ TLR4 Agonist and microparticles compared with other groups ( p < 05 ) . The highest quantity of S-protein was detected in the blood , followed by the small intestine and spleen . The interesting thing was that no significant difference was seen between the amount of S-protein induced by different formulations and the type of adjuvant did not affect the biodistribution . FAU - Keikha , Reza
Malformations of cortical development ( MCDs ) encompass a diverse group of genetic and clinical disorders . Here , we aimed to determine a genetic etiology for two siblings manifesting MCD , microcephaly , epilepsy , intellectual disability , and susceptibility to infections . A missense variant ( NM_018084 : c . 929A > C , p . Asp310Ala ) and an intragenic deletion ( exons 14-16 ) in CCDC88A were identified as compound heterozygous in patients by genome sequencing . Truncating homozygous CCDC88A variants are known to cause an ultra-rare syndrome manifesting with MCD , microcephaly , seizures , and severe neurological impairment . CCDC88A encodes girdin , which is essential for various cell functions , such as actin remodeling and cell proliferation . Western blot analysis showed that the missense variant allele was expressed in fibroblasts at a level compatible with a heterozygous allele , whereas a truncated protein from the deletion allele was barely detectable . Proliferation and wound-healing assays revealed that girdin-deficient fibroblasts proliferated faster and migrated slower than controls . High-content imaging highlighted girdin-deficient fibroblasts as smaller and their actin remodeling disrupted , leading to perinuclear accumulation of endolysosomal organelles . To confirm these cellular phenotypes resulted from girdin loss , CRISPR-Cas9 edited knockout models of healthy fibroblasts were created , replicating the observations in patient cells . Additionally , the siblings exhibited reduced monocytoid and plasmacytoid dendritic cells , suggesting compromised immunity due to girdin deficiency . In summary , the study describes the first case of a CCDC88A missense variant and intragenic deletion associated with MCD . It demonstrates altered immunity and girdin-related cellular changes , such as cell morphology and proliferation-migration dichotomy , in patient and knockout fibroblasts , reinforcing the pathogenic relevance of these variants .
The side effects associated with flutamide as a first-line drug treating prostate cancer , including hepatotoxicity , the aim of this research was to use melatonin as an anticancer candidate to reduce the dose of flutamide and reduce its side effects . We evaluated the effect of melatonin , flutamide , and melatonin-flutamide combination therapy in LNCaP , DU145 , and PC3 cell lines . The assessment includes Hoechst dye staining , scratch-wound assay , colony formation assay , flow cytometric analysis of apoptosis and DNA cell cycle , real-time PCR ( BAX [BCL2 Associated X]/B-cell lymphoma-2 [BCL2] , E-cadherin , Zinc finger protein SNAI2 [SNAIL] , Hypoxia Inducible Factor 1 Subunit Alpha [HIF1alpha] , Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor C [VEGFC] , and kallikrein-related peptidase 3 [KLK3] genes ) . To determine Half maximal inhibitory concentration ( IC50 ) levels , cell lines were exposed to different concentrations of the drugs . Our data indicated that IC50 values for melatonin ( 75 microM ) and three cell lines and flutamide ( 12 and 10 microM ) for PC3 and LNCaP/DU145 , respectively , with 3- ( 4 , 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl ) -2 , 5 diphenyl tetrazolium bromide were approved by flow cytometry in a dose and time-dependent manner which was as a consequence of cell cycle arrest at G0/G1 phase . Due to the efficacy of melatonin in combination with flutamide , we used 75 microM melatonin , and 5 microM flutamide instead of 12 microM in DU145 , and 6 microM in PC3 and LNCaP , respectively . The combination of melatonin and flutamide significantly upregulated the expression of BAX/BCL2 ratio in all three cell lines ( p < 0001 ) and downregulated the expression of KLK3 ( p < 01 ) , HIF1alpha ( p < 01 ) , VEGFC ( p < 001 ) , and epithelial-mesenchymal transition pathway genes in PC3 and LNCaP ( p < 01 ) . Melatonin in combination with flutamide reduced its dose and increased the sensitivity of prostate cancer cells to treatment . FAU - Omid , Reza
Cell senescence , induced by various internal and external stresses , plays a significant role in the development of various diseases such as cancer , neurodegeneration , and infections . Viral infections can also induce cellular senescence , known as virus-induced senescence ( VIS ) , which occurs in close correlation with the severity of the viral infections . However , due to the unclear mechanisms underlying VIS , the effective inhibition of VIS during viral infections is challenging , leading to rapid disease progression . This study utilized the widely used vesicular stomatitis virus ( VSV ) model virus to simulate RNA virus infections for exploring the mechanisms by which RNA viruses induce cellular senescence . The results indicated that VSV infection , both in vitro and in vivo , could significantly induce the upregulation of senescence-associated markers and the secretion of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype ( SASP ) , promoting the senescence process . Further research found that the activation of the NF-kappaB pathway played a crucial role in VSV-induced cellular senescence . Targeted inhibition of the NF-kappaB pathway could reduce the level of organ senescence induced by viral infections , decrease the expression of SASP inflammatory factors , and ameliorate tissue damage in mice . Overall , our findings reveal the mechanisms underlying RNA virus-associated VIS and provide potential targets for inhibiting the occurrence of VIS and preventing disease progression . FAU - Li , Zhiqiang
The purpose of integrating different omics data is to study cellular heterogeneity at the level of transcriptional regulation from different gene levels , which can effectively identify cell types and reveal the pathogenesis of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) from two perspectives . However , implementing such algorithms faces challenges such as high data noise levels , increased dimensionality , and computational complexity . In this study , multigraph regularization constraints were introduced in the network-based integrative clustering algorithm ( MGR-NIC ) to remove redundant features and keep the geometry structures underlying the data by fusing two types of data ( snRNA-seq and snATAC-seq ) of glial cells from AD samples . The effectiveness of the MGR-NIC algorithm was validated using both simulation datasets and real datasets derived from various tissues . The MGR-NIC algorithm can improve clustering accuracy by selecting features that better represent the dataset ' s structure . The clustering results obtained with the MGR-NIC algorithm show strong consistency with the clustering results inherent to the published DLPFC dataset , while the classification results generated using the NIC algorithm often lead to cluster overlap when applied to the DLPFC dataset . We will use the same state-of-the-art algorithms for a comprehensive evaluation with our proposed MGR-NIC algorithm , including NIC , scAI , Multi-Omics Factor Analysis v2 , and JSNMF . MGR-NIC is the most stable and reliable method , implying its robustness across different datasets and its reliability in yielding consistent and accurate results . FAU - Zhang , Shunqin
For bioprocesses producing live virus , such as enterovirus Coxsackievirus A21 , viral titer ( infectivity basis ) decay rates can exceed 30% within a day . Consequently , harvest timing is paramount . To optimize titer at harvest , a continuous viral product titer model was generated to elucidate kinetics . The model leveraged experimentally determined viable cell density , cell-specific viral productivity , and viral specific decay rates . Next , three separate online process analytical technology ( PAT ) harvest triggers were developed to predict maximal viral titer . Finally , the PAT harvest triggers were tested alongside traditional time-based harvests . The harvest triggers utilized common bioprocessing tools - dissolved oxygen ( DO ) and capacitance probes - to track DO and viable cell volume ( VCV ) and derived a third parameter , cell-specific oxygen uptake rate . Harvesting with PAT triggers allowed for significantly improved batch-to-batch consistency . The standard deviation of harvest yield was reduced by 41% ( DO ) , 56% ( OUR ) and 71% ( capacitance ) as compared to the industry standard time-based harvest . Even when a process deviation in inoculated cell density occurred , causing a significant shift in viral titer kinetics , the PAT harvest triggers yielded greater than 87% of peak titer . By comparison , the time-based harvest yielded 16% .
Human metapneumovirus ( HMPV ) is a prominent respiratory pathogen causing significant morbidity and mortality worldwide , mostly in young teenagers , the old , and immunocompromised individuals . Despite its clinical impact , no licensed vaccine is currently available , highlighting the urgent need for effective prophylactic strategies . This research aimed to design a multiepitope vaccine ( MEV ) targeting conserved and immunodominant regions of HMPV , leveraging immunoinformatics tools to ensure broad coverage and efficacy against the virus and its diverse sublineages . Glycoproteins from HMPV genotypes A2a , A2b , and A2c were analyzed to identify 18 highly antigenic and overlapping epitopes capable of eliciting robust B-cell , T-cell , and interferon-gamma ( IFN-gamma ) -mediated immune responses . Toxicity and allergenicity studies confirmed the safety of particular epitopes , which were incorporated into two vaccine constructs using immunogenic linkers and adjuvants . The chimeric vaccines displayed high antigenicity , molecular stability , and nonallergenic properties . Structural refinement and Ramachandran plot analyses established the stability and accuracy of the 3D models . Molecular docking studies verified strong interactions with immune receptors , particularly toll-like receptor ( TLR ) 2 , TLR3 , TLR4 , TLR8 , and human leukocyte antigen molecules , indicating robust immune stimulation potential . Molecular dynamics simulations further validated the vaccine ' s stability and interaction dynamics , with immune simulations predicting promising responses . The designed vaccine constructs were shown to be highly soluble , stable , and suitable for recombinant expression in Escherichia coli , enabling further biochemical and immunoreactivity validation . These findings provide a foundation for next-generation vaccine development against HMPV , offering promising avenues for clinical application and future research . [Figure : see text] . FAU - Khatrawi , Elham Mohammed
Mansoori , B . , A . Mohammadi , S . Naghizadeh , et al . " MiR-330 Suppresses EMT and Induces Apoptosis by Downregulating HMGA2 in Human Colorectal Cancer , " Journal of Cellular Physiology 235 , no . 2 : 920- https : //doi . org/1002/jcp . The above article , published online on June 26 , 2019 in Wiley Online Library ( wileyonlinelibrary . com ) , has been retracted by agreement between the journal Editor-in-Chief , Robert Heath ; and Wiley Periodicals LLC . The retraction has been agreed upon following an investigation by the publisher in response to concerns raised by third parties . Several flaws and inconsistencies have been identified between the described methodology and the presented results . Furthermore , the study ' s rationale and conclusions drawn are not supported by either the existing literature or the data extracted from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . Accordingly , the article is retracted as the editors consider its conclusions to be invalid . The authors have been informed of the decision of retraction but not available for a final confirmation .
Obesity-induced insulin resistance is a hallmark of metabolic syndrome , and chronic low-grade inflammation links obesity to insulin resistance through the activation of tissue-infiltrating immune cells . Current treatments are lacking in efficacy and immunosuppression . Therefore , novel therapies are needed to prevent chronic inflammation and alleviate obesity-related insulin resistance . In this work , novel red light-responsive biomimetic nanoparticles ( RSCP NPs ) are reported to perform targeted delivery of multiple drugs and effectively reduce nonspecific enrichment . These results showed that the dual-targeting and multiple-signaling response ( red light signaling and different pH microenvironments ) of the RSCP NPs enabled the precise delivery of astaxanthin ( Asta ) and rosiglitazone ( Rosi ) to M1-like macrophages and white adipocytes , respectively , to alleviate the low-grade inflammation of white adipose tissue ( WAT ) and promote white adipocyte browning . Moreover , RSCP NPs-mediated Asta and Rosi treatment robustly alleviated insulin resistance and other metabolic disorders in the obese animal models ( high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced or genetically obese mice ) . Overall , this study provides a theoretical and practical basis for the development and application of novel drug delivery systems for metabolic diseases by elucidating the synergistic long-term targeting mechanism and target molecule stability of red light-sensitive bionic nanodrug delivery systems .
Full-thickness wounds pose significant healing challenges due to their impaired regenerative capacity , persistent inflammation , and oxidative stress . Enhancing the bioactivity of silk fibroin ( SF ) and the mechanical strength of the human amniotic membrane ( hAM ) can improve wound healing outcomes . Mesenchymal stem cell ( MSC ) -derived small extracellular vesicles ( sEVs ) offer promising anti-inflammatory and antioxidant benefits , but their poor retention and painful application limits their clinical utility . To overcome these challenges , we developed a composite scaffold of SF and hAM ( Sh ) , loaded with sEVs ( ShE ) , designed to accelerate wound healing by modulating inflammation , oxidative stress , and tissue regeneration . ShE exhibited excellent physical stability , optimal swelling , degradation kinetics , hemocompatibility , and sustained sEV release . In vitro , it enhanced keratinocyte and fibroblast proliferation and migration , reduced oxidative stress , and provided immunomodulatory and pro-angiogenic effects . ShE significantly lowered ROS levels , suppressed PHA-activated PBMNC proliferation , facilitated macrophage polarization from the pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype , and promoted angiogenesis . In vivo , ShE accelerated wound closure within 21 days , outperforming DuoDERM , a commercial dressing . Histopathological analysis demonstrated improved epidermal maturation , dermal regeneration , and reduced scarring in ShE-treated wounds , confirming the superior tissue regeneration capacity . Additionally , its fabrication from medical waste and indigenous raw materials ensures cost-effectiveness and sustainability in healthcare applications . By synergistically regulating cell physiology for skin regeneration , ShE emerges as a promising , clinically viable , and affordable wound dressing for enhanced wound care management . FAU - Mahapatra , Shruti
Lithium metal batteries ( LMBs ) are highly valued due to their high energy density . However , LMBs are severely hindered by the unstable solid electrolyte interphase ( SEI ) , which requires a rational design of interface engineering . Herein , a dual protection strategy of Li-metal anode is proposed via coating a black phosphorus ( BP ) layer on the separator . During the battery assembly process , few-layer BP nanosheets can be peeled off and uniformly modified on the lithium metal surface , due to the soft metallic properties of lithium , meanwhile , the remaining BP remains on the separator , so that they provide two types of protection during the initial formation and cycling processes , respectively . During initial lithiation , the stripped BP is converted to LiP , which is a beneficial component for stable and fast-dynamic SEI . In addition , when Li dendrites are dramatically generated under extreme conditions , the BP modified on the separator can melt Li dendrites owing to the high activity of their alloying reaction . Therefore , the BP-modified separator facilitates the large-scale application of Li metal , with generalisability in both ester and ether electrolytes . In the ester electrolyte , the lifetimes of Li||Li cells are prolonged to over 2200 h , and Li||LiFePO cells exhibit a superior capacity retention of 78% after 500 cycles at 1 C .
The regulation of dendritic cell ( DC ) function is pivotal for augmenting the immune response of traditional tumor therapy , particularly in mitigating postsurgical tumor relapse . Unfortunately , DC functionality is often compromised in the postsurgical microenvironment , leading to immune tolerance and tumor progression . To address these challenges , we developed a personalized cancer vaccine , Cell@CaP , which utilizes inactivated autologous tumor cells coated with a calcium phosphate shell . This innovative vaccine incorporates cyclic GMP-AMP ( cGAMP ) , a STING agonist , and calcium ions ( Ca ( 2+ ) ) to boost DCs activation and antigen presentation . The Cell@CaP vaccine leverages high mechanical hardness , intact tumor antigens , and the release of cGAMP and Ca ( 2+ ) to activate DCs through multiple pathways . Upon interaction with DCs , the vaccine triggers the Piezo1 mechanosensitive channel , inducing a Ca ( 2+ ) influx . This mechanical stimulation , combined with the release of cGAMP and tumor antigens , activates the cGAS-STING , PI3K-Akt , and RhoA-MYPT1 signaling pathways . These synergistic effects enhance the expression of costimulatory molecules and promote the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( interferon-beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ) . In a postsurgical osteosarcoma model , the combination of Cell@CaP with radiotherapy significantly inhibited primary tumor relapse and suppressed distant lung metastases . This multimodal vaccine strategy integrates mechanical , chemical , and immunological cues into a single platform , offering a promising approach to enhance DCs functionality and activate robust antitumor immunity . The study highlights the potential of Cell@CaP as a personalized immunotherapy for preventing postsurgical tumor relapse . FAU - Gu , Zenghui
Ibrutinib ( IBT ) is a well-known Bruton ' s tyrosine kinase ( BTK ) inhibitor molecule approved for the treatment of B-cell malignancies . The off-target potential of IBT opens up the door for its repurposing against different solid tumors including breast cancer ( BC ) . However , clinical success of the drug was found to be compromised due to poor bioavailability and toxicity issues associated with its existing commercial dosage forms . Therefore , in the present study , a pH-sensitive polymeric mixed micellar ( PMM ) system was fabricated for intravenous ( i . v . ) delivery of IBT . The generation of PMMs using vitamin E-TPGS and Solutol ( R ) HS 15 was assured through the in silico binding affinity of the drug , and freeze-drying assisted development was optimized by applying a 3-level , 3-factor Box-Behnken Design ( BBD ) . The optimized formulation exhibited a smooth spherical morphology with an average particle size of 19 +/- 92 nm , a PDI of 387 +/- 03 , and a zeta-potential of -97 +/- 51 mV . Furthermore , it provides an encapsulation efficiency of 73 +/- 40% , a burst release of 86 +/- 22% after 2 h at pH 5 , and 60 days of stability at 5 +/- 3 degrees C . The solid form of IBT-PMMs was characterized through FT-IR , DSC , PXRD , and SEM . The developed IBT-PMMs showed excellent efficacy for BC cell lines with a reduction in IC of around 15-fold in MCF-7 and 10-fold in MDA MB-231 compared to free IBT . Apart from that , the developed micellar system exhibited a significant cellular accumulation , ROS dependent-MMP mediated apoptosis , and inhibition of cell migration in both cell lines . In western blot , relative expression of Bax ( apoptic protein ) /Bcl-2 ( anti-apoptic protein ) was also found to be elevated . The anti-angiogenic potential of the formulation was confirmed through a reduction in vessel formation in an ex vivo chick embryo assay . In addition , the drug-loaded PMMs were also found to be hemocompatible , safe for i . v . administration with an LD of 25 mg kg ( -1 ) in female BALB/c mice and long-acting with a high plasma half-life ( t ( 1/2 ) ) of 76 +/- 83 h . In short , findings of the study suggest that the developed PMMs serve as a proficient carrier system in augmenting the anti-cancer effect of IBT against BC treatment with an improved pharmacokinetic profile . FAU - Maji , Indrani
Low temperature aqueous electrochemical CO ( ) reduction ( ECR ) emerged as a pathway to close the carbon cycle with the integration of renewable energy . However , activity , selectivity , and stability barriers prevent ECR from entering industrial scale operation . While catalyst design has made meaningful progress towards selective and active production of many products including CO , formate , and ethylene , operating conditions during catalyst testing have not been standardized . Operational parameters drastically impact the local reaction environment of the ECR and thus the performance of ECR . Herein , we summarize the prevailing operational variability of ECR and their interconnectedness . We first analyze reactant availability via tuning of cell geometry and CO ( ) pressures . Then , optimization towards electrolyzer components including electrolyte , electrodes , and bipolar plates is discussed . We further assess the electrochemical protocols to enhance the performance or accelerate the degradation of ECR and the considerations required to scale up ECR to pilot scale . Finally , we provide perspectives on the current challenges of ECR and their promising solutions . FAU - Lu , Xiao Kun
27-Hydroxycholesterol ( 27HC ) , a cholesterol metabolite , functions both as a selective oestrogen receptor ( ER ) modulator and a ligand for liver X receptors ( LXRs ) . The discovery of 27HC involvement in carcinogenesis has unveiled new research avenues , yet its precise role remains controversial and context-dependent . In this review , we provide an overview of the biosynthesis and metabolism of 27HC and explore its cancer-associated signalling , with a particular focus on ER- and LXR-mediated pathways . Given the tissue-specific dual role of 27HC , we discuss its differential impact across various cancer types . Furthermore , we sort out 27HC-contributed drug resistance mechanisms from the perspectives of drug efflux , cellular proliferation , apoptosis , epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , antioxidant defence , epigenetic modification , and metabolic reprogramming . Finally , we highlight the chemical inhibitors to mitigate 27HC-driven cancer progression and drug resistance . This review offers an updated role of 27HC in cancer biology , setting the stage for future research and the development of targeted therapeutics . FAU - Hou , Yaxin
BACKGROUND : The aims of this study were to evaluate sigmaR ( sigma-2 receptor ) /TMEM97 ( transmembrane protein 97 ) expression in atherosclerotic plaques , and assess the feasibility of in vivo atherosclerotic plaques imaging using the sigmaR/TMEM97 targeting probe 1- ( 4- ( 5 , 6-dimethoxyisoindolin-2-yl ) butyl ) -3- ( 2-[18F]fluoroethyl ) -1 , 3-dihydro-2H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-one ( [F]SYB-NF ) developed in our laboratory . METHODS : Hematoxylin and eosin and immunohistochemical staining were performed on both human coronary endarterectomy specimens and mouse samples . The expression of sigmaR/TMEM97 in RAW7 cells incubated with ox-LDL ( oxidized low-density lipoprotein ) was analyzed using western blot analysis . Positron emission tomography imaging with [F]SYB-NF , [F]NaF , and [F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose was conducted in wide-type C57BL/6 and ApoE ( -/- ) mice . Specific binding was evaluated by coinjecting [F]SYB-NF with the sigmaR/TMEM97 antagonist CM Autoradiography and Oil Red O staining were performed on harvested aortas and corresponding sections . RESULTS : Staining results demonstrated significant upregulation of sigmaR/TMEM97 expression during both early plaque formation and atherosclerosis progression . Western blot analysis indicated that incubation of macrophages with ox-LDL led to increased sigmaR/TMEM97 expression . [F]SYB-NF specifically accumulated in the aortic arch of ApoE ( - ) ( /- ) mice . Treatment with CM398 significantly reduced the standardized uptake value in the aortic arch of ApoE ( - ) ( /- ) mice . [F]SYB-NF exhibited a higher standardized uptake value in the aortic arch ( 67+/-09 versus 51+/-07 ) and higher aortic arch-to-heart ratio ( 58 versus 56 ) in ApoE ( - ) ( /- ) mice compared with [F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose , and a higher aortic arch-to-bone ratio ( 24 versus 44 ) compared with [F]NaF . Autoradiography analysis revealed a strong correlation between the positive area in Oil Red O staining and autoradiography ( Pearson correlation coefficient=993 ; P=001 ) , further supporting the association between elevated sigmaR/TMEM97 expression and plaque formation . CONCLUSIONS : sigmaR/TMEM97 may serve as a potential biomarker for atherosclerotic plaques , and sigmaR/TMEM97 positron emission tomography imaging may be used to monitor plaque formation and progression , as well as the efficacy of emerging therapeutic strategies for atherosclerotic plaques . FAU - Mou , Tiantian
BACKGROUND : Growing evidence suggests that the epigenetic reader Brd4 ( bromodomain-containing protein 4 ) is involved in aging and aging-related diseases . However , the specific mechanisms by which Brd4 influences vascular aging , especially senescence of vascular smooth muscle cells ( SMCs ) , remain unexplored . METHODS : Primary cell cultures were established using mouse aortic SMCs and treated with Brd4 inhibitor , ARV-825 , or ( + ) -JQ Primary Brd4 ( flox/flox ) mouse aortic SMCs were transduced with Ad-Cre virus to induce Brd4 knockout ( KO ) . Senescence was assessed through SA-beta-gal ( senescence-associated beta-galactosidase ) staining . A mouse model of inducible SMC-specific Brd4 gene KO ( SMC-Brd4-KO ) was generated with the Cre-LoxP system . The control and SMC-Brd4-KO mice were evaluated for arterial contractility , blood pressure , arterial stiffness , and Ang II ( angiotensin II ) -induced vascular aging , as well as transcriptome profiling using RNA-sequencing analysis . RESULTS : Brd4 inhibition with ARV-825 , ( + ) -JQ1 , or Brd4 knockdown through Ad-Cre virus in Brd4 ( flox/flox ) SMCs led to cellular senescence . Induced SMC-Brd4-KO in adult mice prevented neointima formation . SMC-Brd4-KO mice exhibited increased aortic stiffness and blood pressure with enhanced arterial contractility ex vivo . In addition , Brd4 expression was downregulated in aortic tissues of aged mice and senescent human aortic SMCs . Furthermore , SMC-Brd4-KO mice displayed more prominent histopathologic features of vascular aging in response to Ang II infusion . Aortic tissues from SMC-Brd4-KO mice showed a more robust contractile response to Ang II and phenylephrine , accompanied by multiple genetic changes , including alterations in cytoskeleton genes . Transcriptomes of Brd4 KO aortas displayed gene signatures of dampened autophagy , intriguingly associated with a downregulation of microtubule genes , including Tuba4a ( alpha-tubulin ) . Experiments in vitro with Brd4 KO SMCs demonstrated the potential role of impaired autophagy and depleted alpha-tubulin in mediating induction of senescence in SMCs . CONCLUSIONS : Brd4 depletion in SMCs induces senescence , prevents neointima formation , and exacerbates vascular aging , highlighting its crucial roles in vascular functions and diseases . FAU - Sun , Jiaxing
BACKGROUND : Arteriovenous fistula ( AVF ) is the preferred vascular access for hemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease , yet its long-term patency is threatened by neointimal hyperplasia ( NIH ) . N-methyladenosine , a prevalent RNA modification catalyzed by METTL3 ( methyltransferase-like 3 ) , plays a regulatory role in cardiovascular remodeling . Our previous studies found that N-methyladenosine methyltransferase METTL3 mediated cardiomyocyte proliferation and heart repair after myocardial ischemia . However , its impact on AVF-related NIH remains unclear . METHODS : We examined mA levels and METTL3 expression in human and murine AVF tissues . Using smooth muscle cell-specific METTL3 conditional knockout and METTL3-overexpressing ( adeno-associated virus-METTL3 ) mouse models , we evaluated NIH formation . In vitro , we analyzed vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation , migration , phenotypic switching , and ferroptosis . mA epitranscriptomic microarray and RNA stability assays were used to explore downstream targets and mechanisms . RESULTS : METTL3 was significantly upregulated in AVF tissues and vascular smooth muscle cells undergoing dedifferentiation . METTL3 deletion attenuated , while overexpression exacerbated , NIH in vivo . METTL3 enhanced vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation , migration , and phenotypic switching , while suppressing ferroptosis . Mechanistically , METTL3 increased mA modification of SLC7A11 ( solute carrier family 7 member 11 ) mRNA , stabilized its transcript , and promoted translation via recruitment of the mA reader YTHDF1 ( YTH N-methyladenosine RNA-binding protein 1 ) . Silencing SLC7A11 or YTHDF1 abrogated METTL3-induced phenotypic changes and ferroptosis resistance . CONCLUSIONS : The METTL3-YTHDF1-SLC7A11 axis facilitates AVF NIH by regulating vascular smooth muscle cell dedifferentiation and ferroptosis . These findings uncover a novel epitranscriptional mechanism and suggest a potential therapeutic target for AVF stenosis . FAU - Zhao , Yao
This brief review describes recent advances in understanding metabolic control of vascular smooth muscle cells , highlighting the identification of KCNQ5 ( KV5 subfamily of voltage-gated K ( + ) channels ) as a crucial component . KCNQ5 has been found to play a key role in enabling the convergence of input signals from the perivascular adipose tissue , which include numerous oxylipins . These findings are significant because they shed light on the mechanisms by which vascular smooth muscle cells regulate vascular tone and blood pressure . By focusing on the interaction between KCNQ5 and perivascular adipose tissue , research has uncovered a complex pathway that allows for the modulation of vascular responses through a variety of lipid-derived signaling molecules . This discovery not only provides deeper insight into the cellular processes affecting vascular function but also opens up potential new avenues for therapeutic interventions in vascular diseases . The identification of KCNQ5 as a pivotal mediator in these processes is a critical step forward in cardiovascular research , offering new perspectives on how vascular health can be maintained and how various diseases might be targeted more effectively . FAU - Gollasch , Maik
BACKGROUND : TFPI ( tissue factor pathway inhibitor ) inhibits the initiation of blood coagulation . TFPIalpha ( TFPI alpha isoform ) , the only alternatively spliced TFPI isoform in platelets , is abundant in placenta and uniquely inhibits prothrombinase ( FXa [activated factor X]-FVa ) . This inhibitory activity is reduced when prothrombinase is assembled with FVL ( factor V Leiden ) . METHODS : Effects of TFPIalpha ( Tfpi ( Deltaalpha ) ) and platelet ( Tfpi ( fl ) ; Pf4-Cre ( + ) ) specific knockout alleles were characterized in FVL ( F5 ( L ) ) mice to examine the physiological effects of the TFPIalpha-FV interaction . RESULTS : Genotype frequencies were assessed and revealed that Tfpi ( +/Deltaalpha ) F5 ( L/L ) mice survive to adulthood . However , Tfpi ( Deltaalpha ) homozygosity with even a single F5 ( L ) allele resulted in embryonic lethality during mid-gestation development regardless of maternal FVL status . In contrast , F5 ( L/L ) Tfpi ( fl/fl ) Pf4-Cre ( + ) mice were at expected frequencies at weaning , indicating that platelet TFPIalpha loss alone did not cause mid-gestation lethality in Tfpi ( Deltaalpha/Deltaalpha ) F5 ( L ) mice . Histological analyses showed no fibrin deposition in embryonic or extraembryonic tissues but revealed placental vasculature defects in Tfpi ( Deltaalpha/Deltaalpha ) F5 ( L ) genotypes . Treatment with the direct thrombin inhibitor dabigatran partially rescued the lethality and corrected placental defects , implicating excessive thrombin generation as a factor in Tfpi ( Deltaalpha/Deltaalpha ) F5 ( L ) demise . CONCLUSIONS : These findings suggest that TFPIalpha and its inhibition of prothrombinase play an important role in placental angiogenesis and embryonic survival . FAU - Siebert , Amy E
BACKGROUND : Vascular calcification ( VC ) is associated with diabetes , chronic kidney disease , and aging . VC is found to be a powerful and independent risk factor for cardiovascular mortality . Vascular smooth muscle cell ( VSMC ) ferroptosis , a form of cell death , is known to be involved in VC . However , whether VSMC ferroptosis is regulated by posttranslational modifications remains undefined . METHODS : We explored the potential role and mechanism of PARP1 ( poly[ADP-ribose] polymerase 1 ) -mediated poly ( ADP-ribosyl ) ation ( PARylation ) in VSMC ferroptosis during VC . Mouse VSMCs were treated with beta-glycerophosphate , and Parp1 ( flox/flox ) Tagln Cre ( + ) calcified mice were generated with AAV9-sh-POLG ( DNA polymerase gamma ) injected to establish in vitro and in vivo models , respectively . RNA-sequencing analysis was performed to determine the transcriptomic alterations in VSMCs overexpressing POLG and treated with beta-glycerophosphate . RESULTS : Both PARP1 expression and PARylation levels were increased in beta-glycerophosphate-induced VC , with PARP1 knockdown mitigating VC by improving mitochondrial function and inhibiting the subsequent VSMC ferroptosis . Mechanistically , POLG PARylation levels were increased in calcified VSMCs from PARP1 activation , triggering PARylation-dependent ubiquitination of POLG that resulted in POLG downregulation . This led to mitochondrial dysfunction and Adora2a ( adenosine receptor A2A ) /Rap1 ( Ras-associated protein 1 ) signaling pathway activation to induce VSMC ferroptosis , which ultimately aggravated VC . CONCLUSIONS : Our study establishes the critical role of PARP1-mediated PARylation-dependent ubiquitination of POLG in VSMC ferroptosis-induced VC . These findings suggest that PARP1 inhibitors could potentially serve as novel therapeutic strategies for VC . FAU - Yang , Yiqing
BACKGROUND : Pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) is a devastating disease characterized by obliterative vascular remodeling and persistent increase of vascular resistance , leading to right heart failure and premature death . Understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms will help develop novel therapeutic approaches for patients with PAH . Recent studies showed that FABP ( fatty acid-binding protein ) 4 and FABP5 are expressed in endothelial cells ( ECs ) across multiple tissues , and circulating FABP4 level is elevated in patients with PAH . However , the role of endothelial FABP4/5 in the pathogenesis of PAH remains undetermined . METHODS : FABP4/5 expression was examined in pulmonary arterial ECs and lung tissues from patients with idiopathic PAH and pulmonary hypertension ( PH ) rat models . Plasma proteome analysis was performed in human PAH samples . Echocardiography , hemodynamics , histology , and immunostaining were performed to evaluate the lung and heart PH phenotypes in Egln1 ( Tie2Cre ) ( CKO ) mice and Egln1 ( Tie2Cre ) /Fabp4/5 ( -/- ) ( TKO ) mice . Bulk RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) , single-cell RNA sequencing analysis , and spatial transcriptomic analysis were performed to understand the cellular and molecular mechanisms of endothelial FABP4/5-mediated PAH pathogenesis . RESULTS : Both FABP4 and FABP5 were highly induced in ECs of CKO mice and pulmonary arterial ECs from patients with idiopathic PAH ( IPAH ) and in whole lungs of PH rats . Plasma levels of FABP4/5 were upregulated in patients with IPAH and directly correlated with severity of hemodynamics and biochemical parameters . Genetic deletion of both Fabp4 and Fabp5 in CKO mice caused a reduction of right ventricular systolic pressure and right ventricular hypertrophy , attenuated pulmonary vascular remodeling , and prevented the right heart failure secondary to PH . FABP4/5 deletion also normalized EC glycolysis and distal arterial programming , reduced reactive oxygen species and HIF ( hypoxia-inducible factor ) -2alpha expression , and decreased aberrant EC proliferation in CKO lungs . CONCLUSIONS : PH causes aberrant expression of FABP4/5 in pulmonary ECs , which leads to enhanced EC glycolysis and distal arterial programming , contributing to the accumulation of arterial ECs and vascular remodeling and exacerbating the disease . FAU - Liu , Bin
AIMS : To develop a nano-immunotherapy system combining autophagy inhibition and innate immune activation to reverse the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment ( TME ) in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) . MATERIALS & METHODS : The pH-responsive polymer PC7A was utilized to co-deliver the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine ( CQ ) and the STING agonist cyclic diguanylate ( CDG ) , forming the CQCP nanosystem . In vitro and in vivo experiments evaluated autophagy inhibition , MHC-I expression , dendritic cell activation , tumor infiltration of lymphocytes , and survival in PDAC-bearing mice . RESULTS : CQCP enhanced MHC-I expression on PDAC cells by 1-fold ( p < 001 ) and increased activated dendritic cells ( CD86+/CD40+ ) by 5-fold ( p < 01 ) in the TME . Tumor-infiltrating CD8+ T cells rose by 6% ( p < 001 ) , and systemic immune activation in peripheral lymphoid tissues was observed . CQCP achieved an 86% survival rate in tumor-bearing mice , significantly outperforming monotherapies or free drug combinations . CONCLUSIONS : The CQCP system synergistically reverses PDAC immunosuppression by restoring antigen presentation and activating innate immunity . This dual-targeted strategy demonstrates robust antitumor efficacy and offers a promising immunotherapy approach for PDAC . FAU - Zhang , Bo-Dou
Triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) poses a significant challenge due to its aggressive nature and limited treatment options , with cisplatin often used in treatment . However , the mechanism underlying the cisplatin resistance in TNBC is poorly understood . This study aimed to develop a cisplatin-resistant ( cisR ) TNBC cell line and understand its metabolic alterations . Characterization of cisR and cisplatin-sensitive ( cisS ) cell lines involved cytotoxicity , wound healing , and morphological studies . This study further employed untargeted and targeted mass spectrometry analyses for a deep metabolome comparison between cisR and cisS TNBC cell lines to elucidate the molecular mechanisms driving cisplatin resistance . Metabolomics profiling of cisR and cisS cell lines resulted in the identification of significantly altered metabolites , such as N8-acetylspermidine , d-pantothenic acid , sphingosine , sphinganine 1-phosphate ( S1P ) , nicotinamide , choline , and certain amino acids . This global and targeted metabolomics study also revealed the downregulation of N8-acetylspermidine and d-pantothenic acid , indicating that their dysregulation is associated with cisplatin resistance in TNBC cells . Furthermore , this study unravels the dysregulation of sphingolipid metabolism , particularly the downregulation of ceramide , sphingosine , and S1P , and glycerophospholipid metabolism ( choline , LysoPC ) as a potential contributor to cisplatin resistance in TNBC cells . Similarly , upregulation of nicotinamide metabolism key players nicotinate and 1-methylnicotinamide emerges as a contributor to cisplatin resistance . Aminoacyl t-RNA biosynthesis and ABC transporter metabolic pathways involving proline , valine , threonine , glutamic acid , and phenylalanine amino acids are also implicated in developing TNBC-resistant cells . This comprehensive metabolomics study identifies distinct metabolic signatures and key dysregulated pathways associated with cisplatin resistance in TNBC , offering potential candidate marker and therapeutic targets . FAU - Parihari , Shashwati
Cyclophosphamide ( CP ) damages glioblastoma cells by producing an excessive amount of intracellular ( iROS ) and mitochondrial ( mROS ) reactive oxygen species . Both iROS and mROS are produced when TRPM2 is activated , but they are decreased when carvacrol ( CAR ) and N- ( p-amylcinnamoyl ) anthranilic acid ( ACA ) inhibit it . Therefore , iROS , and mROS via upregulating Ca ( 2+ ) influx and apoptosis in glioblastoma ( DBTRG-05MG ) cells , CP-mediated TRPM2 stimulation may cause oxidant and apoptotic activities . We investigated how TRPM2 activation not only promotes DBTRG-05MG death but also modifies oxidative damage and apoptosis to counteract the effects of ACA and CAR . The groups of control ( CN ) , CAR ( 200 muM for 24 h ) , CP ( 2 mM for 24 h ) , and CP + CAR were induced in the DBTRG-05MG . While cytosolic free Ca ( 2+ ) levels decreased in the cells as a result of the CAR and ACA treatments , they were further elevated in the CP group by the stimulation of TRPM2 ( HO ) . The cells in the CP group had higher levels of dead cell percentage , apoptosis , mitochondrial membrane dysfunction , mROS , iROS , and caspases -3 , -8 , and -9 than the CN and CAR cells , although their levels were lower in the CP + CAR than in the CP only . CAR incubation increased the CP-induced glutathione concentration and cell viability percentage declines . In summary , the anticancer effect of CP was enhanced by TRPM2 stimulation , while CP-induced oxidative stress and DBTRG-05MG death were reduced by TRPM2 suppression when CAR was treated . TRPM2 activation may be a possible tumor killer channel due to oxidative glioma damage caused by CP .
Current drug delivery still faces the challenge of limited capacity of loading cargos and the risk of undesired drug leakage before reaching the target sites , limiting its therapeutic efficacy . As an alternative , liquid-liquid phase separation-based coacervates protocells may facilitate cellular uptake and improve organelle-targeted delivery efficiency . Here , a drug-free protocell system is proposed by using peptide-polyphenol network shells wrapped nucleic acid coacervates ( NC@PPNs ) , which can specifically and sequentially target breast cancer cells and their organelles . The rapid cellular uptake behaviors of NC@PPNs are found through both endocytosis and cholesterol-dependent pathways . NC@PPNs may induce decreasing mitochondrial membrane potential , increasing intracellular ROS levels , and decreasing ATP levels , eventually inhibiting cell migration and apoptosis by mitochondria dysfunction . Interestingly , NC@PPNs can also induce endoplasmic reticulum swelling and trigger pyroptosis pathways . The cell death mechanism is evidenced by RNA sequencing analysis . Eventually , the dual cell death routines by NC@PPNs enhance the in vivo anti-tumor efficacy . This strategy may open a new avenue in the field of drug-free tumor therapy by nanoscale coacervates .
Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles ( T-EVs ) are small , membrane-bound particles secreted by cancer cells into the extracellular environment . These vesicles carry tumor-specific molecules , making them promising candidates as biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and monitoring . Among the various molecular components of T-EVs , such as nucleic acids and lipids , proteins stand out due to their unique characteristics and functional significance in cancer progression , diagnosis , and therapy . However , the heterogeneity of T-EVs poses a significant challenge to their effective utilization . Herein , we developed an orthogonal barcoding enabled smart nanodevice for the isolation of T-EVs and proteomic profiling . The T-EVs subpopulations were recognized from complex clinical samples , specifically through an orthogonal labeling barcode , which was created using two allosteric aptamers against the exosomal marker CD63 and the tumor marker EpCAM . Simultaneously , the labeled barcode on T-EVs initiated targeted binding with the DNA complementary tag modified mesoporous silica foam ( MOSF-tag ) , achieving in situ exosomal protein extraction and digestion within the nanopores of the MOSF-tag . This integrated strategy not only streamlines the process by eliminating complex steps and minimizing sample loss but also significantly enhances protein identification efficiency . Compared to traditional methods for T-EVs isolation and protein digestion , the smart nanodevice has demonstrated a remarkable improvement in the detection of exosomal proteins and specific proteins from the cell culture medium . As a proof of concept , we applied this strategy to serum samples from prostate cancer ( PCa ) patients , confirming its efficacy . A total of 832 proteins were identified , with 211 showing differential expression between patients and healthy controls . Among these , 113 proteins were significantly upregulated in the PCa group . These uniquely expressed proteins are likely associated with PCa development , invasion , and metastasis , highlighting their potential as biomarkers for the early diagnosis and prognosis of PCa in the future . This innovative approach not only advances the field of T-EVs research but also opens new avenues for the discovery of clinically relevant biomarkers in cancer . FAU - Wang , Yuqing
Phosphate/phosphonate-based drugs ( PDs ) , as multi-negative , hydrophilic molecules , face the greatest difficulty in diffusion across biological membranes , leading to poor bioavailability . Conventional drug delivery strategies to overcome this issue , including utilizing small-molecule prodrugs or nanoparticle carriers , often suffer from case-specific modifications or uncertainties in drug loading . Inspired by the anion coordination chemistry of natural phosphate transporters and artificial anion receptors , here we present the first use of a neutral anion receptor , i . e . , bis ( tripodal hexaurea ) cage 1 , as a " single-molecule carrier " for the delivery of PDs into living cells . Cage 1 features advantages of molecular-level encapsulation , enhanced intracellular accumulation , subcellular targeting , responsive drug release , and broad adaptability . It enhances PD accumulation in tumor cells both in vitro and in vivo , enhancing the cellular uptake of mono- , di- , and tri-phosphate/phosphonate substrates by up to 45-fold via a macropinocytosis-mediated endocytosis pathway . This work demonstrates the potential of neutral anion receptors to serve as single-molecule carriers and offers a promising solution for improving PDs bioavailability , advancing the development of antitumor phosphate-based drugs .
TiN/SiO core-shell refractory plasmonic nanoparticles have been utilized as highly efficient nanoantennas to enhance the performance of lead-free perovskite solar cells ( PSCs ) . The SiO shell , selected for its high refractive index and low extinction coefficient , enables precise light control while minimizing optical losses . A 3D finite element method ( FEM ) -based optoelectronic model was developed to analyze the optical and electrical characteristics of both unmodified and TiN/SiO-integrated PSCs . The results demonstrate a strong correlation between power conversion efficiency ( PCE ) and nanoparticle size . Incorporating 90 nm nanoparticles increases the PCE from 9% to 3% , while 115 nm nanoparticles achieve an impressive 7% , marking a 3% improvement . These findings highlight the pivotal role of tailored plasmonic nanostructures in maximizing light absorption and energy conversion . This study advances the understanding of plasmonic nanomaterials in photovoltaics and offers a viable strategy for enhancing the efficiency of lead-free PSCs . The integration of TiN/SiO nanoparticles presents a promising pathway for developing high-performance , sustainable solar technologies .
Cancer cells display the Warburg effect resulting in the production of excess pyruvate that is converted to acetyl-CoA in the mitochondria . Acetyl-CoA is further converted to citrate in the mitochondria . Meanwhile , in the cytosol , citrate is cleaved by ATP citrate lyase ( ACLY ) that regenerates acetyl-CoA and oxaloacetate . Recently , ACLY has been recognized as a potential target owing to its overexpression in several cancers , including non-small cell lung cancer . The aim of this study was to develop an ACLY-targeting exoformulation , where bovine milk-derived exosomes were surface-conjugated with folate and loaded with the natural ACLY inhibitor potassium hydroxycitrate . The therapeutic efficacy of potassium hydroxycitrate was enhanced by encapsulating it in bovine milk exosomes , and the anti-cancer potential of this exoformulation was evaluated in urethane-induced lung adenocarcinoma murine model . Potassium hydroxycitrate-loaded exosomes , which were surface-conjugated with folate ( Exo-KH ) , exhibited a particle size of approximately 183 nm and a practical loading efficiency of approximately 8% . The exoformulation was found to be spherical in shape as characterized by scanning electron microscopy . Pharmacokinetic studies confirmed the continuous release of hydroxycitrate from the exoformulation , and Exo-KH administered mice showed inhibition of lung tumor growth . The mRNA expression levels of ACLY and other metabolic enzymes , such as FASN , HMGCR , SERBP1c , were also reduced in the exoformulation-treated group as compared with its free form-treated group . ACLY activity was also observed to be decreased in serum and tumor lysates of exoformulation-treated mice . This study demonstrates the potential of using bovine milk exosomes encapsulating potassium hydroxycitrate as a new chemotherapeutic option for non-small cell lung cancer .
While sexual reproduction is a general feature of animals , fissiparity and budding are relatively uncommon modes of asexual reproduction by which a fragment from a parent becomes an independent organism . Unlike unitary development , tumor cells can be included in the detached fragment destined to become offspring . Although fragmentation facilitates the vertical transmission of parental tumor cells to nascent progeny , this process requires significantly fewer cell replications than development from a zygote . The former is a risk factor for cancer , while the latter reduces oncogenic mutations during replication , indicating that two opposite effects of carcinogenesis are involved in fragmentation . If fragmentation can significantly reduce the number of cell replications for the development and a small portion of parental cancer is transmitted to the offspring during fragmentation , consecutive fragmentation across generations can gradually diminish the cancer risk of offspring , which I term fragmentational purging . On the other hand , consecutive fragmentation may aggravate the cancer risk of the progeny , a process of fragmentational accumulation . The model results imply that fragmentational purging does not necessarily guarantee the evolution of fragmentation , nor does fragmentational accumulation ensure its exclusion . Other relevant factors including juvenile susceptibility of sexual reproduction and loss of genetic diversity stemming from asexual reproduction can influence the selective advantage of fragmentation . Furthermore , owing to the common features of stemness and self-renewal , the existence of pluripotent adult stem cells required for fragmentation could be coupled with elevated cancer risk . The model results across diverse parameters and the associated mathematical analyses highlight multifaceted evolutionary trajectories toward fragmentation . Further investigation of cancer-suppression strategies that fragmentational animals employ could provide insights into regenerative medicine and cancer therapy .
The cerebellum is a large brain structure . Most of the mass and volume of the cerebellum is made up by the cerebellar cortex . The outer layer of the cerebellar cortex is divided functionally into long , thin strips called microzones . We argue that the cerebellar microzone computation is the aggregate of simple unit computations and a passive effect of anatomy , unaided and unlearned , which we recreate in silico . This is likely to polarise opinion . In the traditional view , data processing by the cerebellum ( stated very briefly ) is the effect of learned synaptic changes . However , this has become difficult to reconcile with evidence that rate information is linearly conserved in cerebellar signalling . We present an alternative interpretation of cell morphologies and network architecture in the light of linear communication . Parallel fibre synaptic memory has a supporting role in the network computation .
[This corrects the article DOI : 3389/fimmu . ] .
In this work , two capacitors connected by a thermistor are used to explore the electrical property of double-layer membrane in a neuron , which the membrane property is sensitive to changes of temperature and two capacitive variables are used to measure the potentials of inner and outer membrane . The circuit characteristics and energy definition for the neural circuit and its equivalent neuron model in oscillator form are clarified from physical aspect . Considering the shape deformation of cell membrane under external physical stimuli and energy injection , intrinsic parameters of the neuron can be controlled with adaptive growth under energy flow , an adaptive control law is proposed to regulate the firing modes accompanying with energy shift . In presence of noisy excitation , coherence resonance can be induced and confirmed by taming the noise intensity carefully . The distributions of CV ( coefficient variability ) and average energy value < H > vs . noise intensity provide a feasible way to predict the coherence resonance and even stochastic resonance in the neural activities . Adaptive parameter observers are designed to identify the unknown parameters in this neuron model . The research findings of this study lay a foundation for the design of temperature-adaptive biomimetic neuromorphic devices and the research on multi-functional perception neural networks with temperature sensitivity .
Most mammals efficiently overcome self-localization deviations by coordinating grid and place cells in their brain ' s navigation system . However , the coordination of grid cell modules during spatial navigation and its impact on position estimation are poorly understood . This study addresses this issue by introducing a system that decodes grid-cell module activity and integrates networks of multiple grid-cell modules for self-position estimation in a mobile robot . Our results show that even when individual grid module estimates deviated substantially from the robot ' s actual location , the modules remained tightly coordinated . Corrections of these deviations were studied based on anchoring the activity of grid cells to spatial landmarks . Detailed numerical investigations indicate that path integration is critically dependent on the intrinsic coordination between grid cell modules which enhances the accuracy and reliability of spatial navigation . Furthermore , we show that this coordination enables effective vector navigation , even when the overall position estimation is inaccurate . These insights advance our understanding of grid-cell module coordination in location estimation during path integration and offer potential applications in robotics .
OBJECTIVE : In this study , we investigated the protective effect of Metformin on fibrosis of trabecular meshwork cells induced by TGFbeta METHODS : Transformed and primary human trabecular meshwork cells ( HTMCs ) were treated with TGFbeta2 or Metformin alone or combination , western blotting and immunofluorescence staining assays to detect autophagy activity and fibrotic proteins expression levels . TGFbeta2 or Metformin alone or combination were injected into the anterior chamber of mouse eye . Mouse intraocular pressure ( IOP ) was measured every week , mouse eye sections were conducted immunofluorescence staining to analyze Col1 and Col3 expression . pSmad3 level and localization to evaluate TGFbeta/Smad3 pathway activity . Chloroquine phosphate was used to block autophagy-lysosome pathway . RESULTS : Metformin activates autophagy of HTMCs in a dose dependent manner and efficiently ameliorates TMCs fibrosis induced by TGFbeta2 in vitro and in mouse model , and decreased elevated IOP caused by TGFbeta Metformin promotes fibrotic proteins degradation through the autophagy-lysosome pathway . CONCLUSION : Our study found Metformin could alleviates fibrosis of HTMCs induced by TGFbeta2 and decreased elevated IOP in mouse model .
OBJECTIVES : FLASH radiotherapy is garnering attention for its capacity to diminish skin toxicity without compromising tumoricidal efficacy , presenting a stark contrast to conventional ( CONV ) radiotherapy . Despite its promise , the underlying molecular mechanisms of FLASH irradiation ( FLASH-IR ) on skin are not yet fully elucidated . METHODS : This study investigated the transcriptomic responses of human foreskin fibroblast cells ( HFF-1 ) via the FLASH-IR or CONV irradiation ( CONV-IR ) , employing the next-generation RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) to capture the gene expression profiles . Our comparative analysis aimed to dissect the cellular and molecular pathways influenced by these two irradiation methods . RESULTS : We identified a spectrum of differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , signaling pathways , and transcriptional networks that were either shared or divergent between FLASH-IR and CONV-IR . Particularly , transcription factor NR4A1 showed significant upregulation in response to FLASH-IR , while chromatin stability factor ELF3 was markedly downregulated following CONV-IR . The top 10 up-regulated DEGs were subjected to qPCR validation , confirming their differential expression in response to FLASH-IR and CONV-IR . CONCLUSION : Collectively , our findings delineate unique regulatory landscapes of FLASH-IR and CONV-IR on skin cells , corroborating established effects and shedding new light on the molecular interplay within the context of ultra-high dose radiation .
BACKGROUND : Chronic granulomatous disease ( CGD ) is a primary immunodeficiency due to alterations in the oxidative metabolism of phagocytic cells . This condition is characterized by serious and recurrent infections caused by pyogenic bacteria , particularly Staphylococcus aureus , and fungal pathogens such as Aspergillus . These infections are associated with granuloma formation and inflammatory manifestations . The aim of our study was to report the clinical characteristics , microbiological aspects and outcomes , and prognosis of a cohort comprising 42 Moroccan patients suffering from CGD . METHODS : A total of 42 patients were diagnosed for family history , consanguinity , and both clinical and laboratory findings . The diagnosis was confirmed by assessing neutrophil oxidative burst activity , using either the nitroblue tetrazolium ( NBT ) test or the dihydrorhodamine ( DHR ) test . RESULTS : The cohort comprised children from 34 different families , including 12 siblings . The age of onset ranged from 4 days to 13 years , with the diagnosis being established between the ages of 25 days and 13 years . The predominant clinical manifestations were skin infections , lymphadenopathy , pneumonia , BCGitis , liver abscess , pulmonary aspergillosis , and inflammatory colitis . The most frequently isolated germs were Aspergillus , Serratia , and Staphylococcus . Among the total of 42 patients , 17 fatalities occurred , with aspergillosis being identified as the primary cause of their deaths . CONCLUSIONS : In this study , the clinical characteristics and isolated microorganisms correspond to the pathogens known to be important in CGD . Lung infections represent the most prevalent complication and significantly contribute to high mortality rates , particularly in the case of Aspergillus pneumonia , which is known for its tendency to disseminate . Additionally , BCGitis has been frequently observed in countries where the BCG ( Bacille Calmette-Guerin ) vaccination is routinely administered . Enterocolitis emerges as the most common inflammatory complication in clinical settings . Unfortunately , CGD remains largely unknown in Morocco , highlighting the urgent need to raise awareness among doctors . This increased awareness could facilitate early diagnosis and improve patient prognosis .
Shrimp culture industries faced huge economic losses due to white spot disease ( WSD ) caused by the white spot syndrome virus ( WSSV ) . Microalgae are unicellular and can be found in both freshwater and marine habitats . In recent days , microalgae such as Chlamydomonas reinhardtii , Dunaliella salina , Synechocystis species , Synechococcus elongatus , Synechococcus species , and Anabaena species have been explored for treating WSSV using various protocols including transgenic algae , recombinant protein , and dsRNA . The development of dsRNA-expressing lines in C . reinhardtii has improved the efficiency of the new vectors p2xTRBL and pSS116 , enabling the selection of transgenic cells without needing markers . Producing VP28 dsRNA to fight the white spot syndrome virus ( WSSV ) in shrimp has proven particularly advantageous . Due to the development of recombinant plasmids that express VP28 genes in microalgae , oral vaccinations against WSSV have proven highly effective and demonstrated great survival rates in shrimp . Moreover , Dunaliella salina transgenic strains have been modified to generate VP28 genes to shield crayfish from WSSV . Because of their antiviral qualities against WSSV , microalgae such as Synechococcus sp . and Anabaena sp . have also been used and may be useful in managing other aquatic viral infections . Through oral vaccination using sustainable and environmentally friendly practices , these microalgae serve as a disease-control strategy in aquaculture , improving the financial standing and income of aquaculture farmers . All microalgae have antiviral properties and act against the white spot syndrome virus ( WSSV ) .
The comprehensive changes and shared dysregulated signaling pathways in early stage acne remains largely unexplored . In our recently published paper entitled " Analysis of Intracellular Communication Reveals Consistent Gene Changes Associated with Early-Stage Acne Skin , " we utilized single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics datasets from acne patients to analyze cell communication . We identified dysregulated genes linked to inflammatory responses and hyperkeratinization . This commentary discusses potential new markers across major skin cell types , including endothelial cells , fibroblasts , lymphocytes , myeloid cells , keratinocytes , and smooth muscle cells . Additionally , we discuss key dysregulated genes in acne lesions , focusing on the intricate interplay between inflammation and hyperkeratinization . Based on our findings , we explore potential FDA-approved treatments targeting two key pathways involved in acne pathogenesis . These insights provide new therapeutic targets for acne treatment . FAU - Deng , Min
Lipids , key constituents of cell-membranes , are the first responders to cell signals . At the crux of spatiotemporal dynamics of lipid-signaling responses are phosphoinositides . Indeed , phosphoinositides like phosphatidylinositol- ( 4 , 5 ) -bisphosphate ( PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 ) , present in the inner-leaflet of eukaryotic cell-membranes , form the link between signal reception and downstream signal-transmission . In this backdrop , reversible fluorescent probes that can track live PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 dynamics on a seconds time-scale will afford key insights into lipid-mediated signaling . However , realizing cell-permeable PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2-selective sensors for imaging dynamics remains a challenge due to the presence of structurally similar lipids and low levels of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P We report a computationally-designed , rapid-response , reversible , photo-stable , fluorescent sensor that permeates living cells , neurons , and a multicellular organism within few min of direct incubation and distinctly visualizes PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 pools . We used the sensor to interrogate the role of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 in driving the heterogeneity of signaling responses and contrasting behavioral effects that ensue upon binding of distinct ligands to the same G protein-coupled receptor . Specifically , we asked whether probing PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 dynamics using our novel sensor could uncover the earliest of signaling differences evoked by hallucinogenic versus non-hallucinogenic ligands at the serotonin2A ( 5-HT ( 2A ) ) receptor . Our results reveal that a hallucinogenic ligand at the 5-HT ( 2A ) receptor leads to a slower rate of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2-depletion when compared to a non-hallucinogenic ligand , within the initial seconds of ligand addition , but has a sustained effect . The ability of our designer chemical probe in timing early seconds-minute timescale lipid-dynamics in living cells opens avenues for tracking early time-point molecular events in neuronal response to chemical and physical stimuli .
Ferroptosis , a form of iron-dependent programmed cell death , is linked to various diseases and physiological processes . Despite the availability of various types of ferroptosis inducers , its inhibitors are limited to iron chelators or radical scavengers . This study demonstrates that Fe ( ii ) -selective fluorescent probes developed in our lab could serve as ferroptosis inhibitors via selective oxidation of Fe ( ii ) , which is required for lipid peroxidation . This finding opens the door to a new class of ferroptosis inhibitors with potential therapeutic applications .
To meet the requirement of product variety and short production cycle , reconfigurable manufacturing system is considered as an effective solution in addressing current challenges , such as increasing customisation , high flexibility and dynamic market demand . Dynamic factory layout design and optimisation are the crucial factors in response to rapid change in the mechanical structure , software and hardware integration , as well as production capability and functionality adjustment . Nevertheless , in the current research , the layout design for reconfigurable manufacturing systems is usually simplified with autonomous devices being regarded as 2D shapes . Issues such as overlapping and transportation distance are also addressed in an approximate form . In this paper , we present a novel multi-agent cooperative swarm learning framework for dynamic layout optimisation of reconfigurable robotic assembly cells . Based on its digital twin established in the proposed learning environment ( constructed in Visual Components and controlled by TWINCAT ) , the optimisation framework uses 3D digital representation of the facility models with minimal approximation . Moreover , instead of using a traditional centralised learning manner , multi-agent system could provide an alternative way to address the layout issues combined with the proposed decentralised multi-agent cooperative swarm learning . In order to verify the application feasibility of the learning framework , two aerospace manufacturing use cases were implemented . In the first use case , the layout compactness is reduced by 8 times compared with the initial layout setting , the simulated production time is reduced by 3 times , and the rearrangement cost decreased by 4 % . In addition , all manufacturing activity within the cell can be achieved with a feasible robot path , meaning without any joint limits , reachability or singularity issue at each key assembly point . In the second use case , we demonstrated that with the proposed dynamic layout optimisation framework , it is possible to flexibly adjust learning objectives by selecting various weight parameters among layout compactness , rearrangement cost and production time .
Previous studies have demonstrated that ten-eleven translocation methylcytosine dioxygenase 1 ( TET1 ) plays a protective role against house dust mite ( HDM ) -induced allergic airway inflammation . TET1 transcriptionally responded to HDM extract and regulated the expression of genes involved in asthma in human bronchial epithelial cells ( HBECs ) . How TET1 regulates the expression of these genes , however , is unknown . To this end , we measured mRNA expression , DNA methylation , chromatin accessibility , and histone modifications in control and TET1 knockdown HBECs treated or untreated with HDM extract . Throughout our analyses of multiomics data , we detected significant similarities between the effects of TET1 knockdown alone and the effects of HDM treatment alone , all enriched for asthma-related genes and pathways . One especially striking pattern was that both TET1 knockdown and HDM treatment generally led to decreased chromatin accessibility at many of the same genomic loci . Transcription factor enrichment analyses indicated that altered chromatin accessibility following the loss of TET1 may affect , or be affected by , CCCTC-binding factor and CCAAT-enhancer-binding protein binding . Analysis of H3K27ac levels and comparison with existing datasets suggested a potential impact of TET1 on enhancer activity . TET1 loss also led to changes in DNA methylation , but these changes were generally in regions where accessibility was not changing . Lastly , more significant transcriptomic changes were observed in HBEC cells with TET1 knockdown compared to control cells following HDM challenges . Collectively , our data suggest that TET1 regulates gene expression through distinct mechanisms across various genomic regions in airway epithelial cells , restricting transcriptomic responses to allergen and potentially protecting against the development of asthma .
Vaginal microbiota involves seven communities-state types ( CST ) , four dominated by Lactobacillus . L . crispatus , particularly , offers enhanced protection against infections . Recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis and trichomoniasis affect millions of people annually , often asymptomatically , facilitating infection spread and leading complications . Co-culture , the technique of cultivating different microbial populations together to mimic real-life conditions , enables the study of microorganism interactions , including inhibitory or promotive effects on pathogens . This review compiles data on co-culture techniques to analyze interactions among Lactobacillus spp . , Candida spp . , and Trichomonas vaginalis . PubMed was searched using medical subject headings ( MESH ) terms , ' co-culture ' , ' coculture , ' ' cocultivation , ' ' co-incubation , ' and ' Trichomonas vaginalis ' , ' Candida spp . ' , ' Lactobacillus spp . ' . Articles were selected based on relevance to vaginal health , English language , availability , and use of co-culture or co-incubation techniques in the past 24 years . Co-culture and co-incubation studies over the past 24 years have advanced our understanding of microbiota-host , pathogen-host , and pathogen-host-microbiota interactions . These studies reveal that microbiota composition impacts infections , with the microbiota producing substances against pathogens and pathogens developing stress tolerance mechanisms . They elucidate pathogen virulence factors , interactions with immune cells , and how ecological relationships between microorganisms can enhance pathogenicity .
Diabetes mellitus ( DM ) is associated with increased bone fragility despite normal or elevated bone mineral density , partially due to the accumulation of advanced glycation end products ( AGEs ) in bone tissue . AGEs , such as carboxymethyl lysine ( CML ) , impair osteocyte function by activating the receptor for advanced glycation end products ( RAGE ) , triggering oxidative stress and inflammatory responses . This study aimed to investigate the effects of high glucose ( HG ) and CML on bone remodeling , glycation , inflammatory markers , and cellular functions in osteocytes . Using the murine osteocyte cell line OCY454-12H , we treated cells with HG ( 30 mM glucose ) or 3 muM CML to simulate diabetic conditions . We assessed the expression of bone remodeling markers ( SOST , RANKL , OPG , CTsK ) , glycation markers ( RAGE , AGER1 ) , inflammatory cytokines ( IL-6 , TNF-alpha ) , and cellular functions , including proliferation , viability , and apoptosis , using quantitative PCR and functional assays . HG treatment resulted in a 10-fold increase in SOST expression ( 3 vs . 9 , p </= 0001 ) and a 4-fold increase in RANKL expression ( 75 vs . 15 , p </= 0001 ) , with a concurrent 2-fold increase in OPG ( 60 vs . 04 , p </= 0001 ) . The RANKL/OPG ratio remained unchanged ( p = 15 ) . HG also significantly increased RAGE expression by 67-fold ( 20 vs . 15 , p </= 0001 ) and AGER1 by 65-fold ( 94 vs . 15 , p </= 0001 ) , along with a 02-fold increase in IL-6 ( 32 vs . 12 , p </= 001 ) and a 35-fold increase in TNF-alpha ( 04 vs . 04 , p </= 0001 ) . Cell viability and proliferation were significantly higher under HG , accompanied by increased caspase-3 activity , indicating enhanced apoptosis . In contrast , CML exposure significantly upregulated RAGE ( 18 vs . 15 , p </= 0001 ) and AGER1 ( 10 vs . 14 , p = 028 ) but had no significant effects on bone remodeling markers , inflammatory cytokines , or cellular functions at physiological concentrations . Our findings demonstrate that HG disrupts osteocyte function by altering bone remodeling , glycation , and inflammatory pathways , while CML at physiological levels selectively activates glycation markers without inducing broader cellular dysfunction . These results underscore the role of the AGE-RAGE axis in diabetic bone fragility and highlight the need for future in vivo studies to explore therapeutic strategies targeting AGE accumulation and RAGE signaling in bone . FAU - Vaidya , Rachana
BACKGROUND : Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis ( FSGS ) is an increasingly prevalent group of refractory glomerular diseases and a significant aetiology of end-stage renal disease . Podocyte injury and depletion significantly contribute to the pathogenesis and progression of FSGS . MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) are noncoding RNAs that regulate the expression of specific genes in relevant cells , thereby playing crucial roles in the pathogenesis of FSGS . Many studies have shown that miRNAs can be secreted from cells into body fluids and that these miRNAs in the circulation are highly stable . The gold standard for FSGS diagnosis is kidney biopsy ; however , the clinical heterogeneity of FSGS , along with variations in histology and nonspecific morphological features , can impact its diagnostic accuracy . Thus , the discovery of novel and efficacious biomarkers is crucial in facilitating the diagnosis of FSGS . In addition , the degree of kidney damage in patients with FSGS varies at different stages , necessitating individualized diagnosis and treatment approaches . Considering the side effects of glucocorticoids , determining whether a patient is steroid resistant is vital . Thus , ideal biomarkers should not only be specific and sensitive but also have the ability to accurately reflect the stage or prognosis of the disease to improve the treatment for patients . SUMMARY : To date , numerous studies have shown that both urinary miRNAs and plasma miRNAs are potential biomarkers for FSGS . In addition , the identification of miRNA biomarkers specific for the FSGS disease state may provide new insights into the underlying pathological mechanism of FSGS . KEY MESSAGES : Here we summarize the currently available miRNA biomarkers that could help us better understand the diagnosis , disease activity , prognosis , and clinical features of FSGS .
Osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) was strongly correlated with the progression of congenital tibial pseudoarthrosis ( CPT ) . Activation of ferroptosis inhibited osteogenic differentiation of MSCs . ELAV-like RNA binding protein 1 ( ELAVL1 ) is a key factor in promoting ferroptosis . This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism of ELAVL1 in the osteogenic differentiation of CPT periosteum-derived MSCs . Osteogenic differentiation of CPT periosteum-derived MSCs was detected by ARS and ALP staining . Fe ( 2+ ) content and lipid reactive oxygen species content were measured using commercial kits . Molecular interactions were verified using RIP , RNA pulldown , and Co-IP . The ubiquitination level of homeobox gene D8 ( HOXD8 ) was detected using Co-IP . Expression of ELAVL1 and tripartite motif containing 21 ( TRIM21 ) was upregulated in CPT periosteum-derived MSCs , whereas HOXD8 expression was downregulated . Moreover , knockdown of ELAVL1 or TRIM21 inhibited ferroptosis and promoted osteogenic differentiation of CPT MSCs . TRIM21 overexpression reversed the effect caused by knockdown of ELAVL Mechanistically , ELAVL1 upregulated TRIM21 by increasing the stability of TRIM21 , which ubiquitinated and degraded HOXD ELAVL1 bound to TRIM21 , which promoted ubiquitination and degradation of HOXD8 , thereby promoting ferroptosis to inhibit osteogenic differentiation of CPT MSCs .
BACKGROUND : Collaborative efforts , such as the Human Cell Atlas , are rapidly accumulating large amounts of single-cell data . To ensure that single-cell atlases are representative of human genetic diversity , we need to determine the ancestry of the donors from whom single-cell data are generated . Self-reporting of race and ethnicity , although important , can be biased and is not always available for the datasets already collected . METHODS : Here , we introduce scAI-SNP , a tool to infer ancestry directly from single-cell genomics data . To train scAI-SNP , we identified 5 million ancestry-informative single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) in the 1000 Genomes Project dataset across 3201 individuals from 26 population groups . For a query single-cell dataset , scAI-SNP uses these ancestry-informative SNPs to compute the contribution of each of the 26 population groups to the ancestry of the donor from whom the cells were obtained . RESULTS : Using diverse single-cell datasets with matched whole-genome sequencing data , we show that scAI-SNP is robust to the sparsity of single-cell data , can accurately and consistently infer ancestry from samples derived from diverse types of tissues and cancer cells , and can be applied to different modalities of single-cell profiling assays , such as single-cell RNA-seq and single-cell ATAC-seq . DISCUSSION : Finally , we argue that ensuring that single-cell atlases represent diverse ancestry , ideally alongside race and ethnicity , is ultimately important for improved and equitable health outcomes by accounting for human diversity . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1186/s44330-025-00029-
BACKGROUND : Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( MTb ) is a highly infectious pathogen and a global health threat due to its resilient cell wall and immune evasion strategies . Despite the availability of the antituberculosis Bacille Calmette-Guerin ( BCG ) vaccine , its efficacy varies ( 0%-80% ) and gradually decreases over time . This study aimed to identify cytotoxic T-lymphocyte ( CTL ) and helper T-lymphocyte ( HTL ) epitopes in MTb secretory proteins using immunoinformatics tools . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The Protein Variability Server was used to identify highly conserved sequences , and epitope population coverage was estimated for the Southeast Asian ( SEA ) region . Selected epitopes were also docked to their major histocompatibility complex alleles . RESULTS : Five secretory proteins critical to MTb pathogenesis and virulence were identified as antigenic ( antigenicity score > 4 ) . Predicted epitopes had IC values </= 500 nM , indicating strong binding affinity , with an estimated 94% population coverage in SEA . All candidate epitopes were highly conserved ( Shannon index </= 1 ) and showed no significant sequence similarity to human proteins , allergens , or toxic peptides . Docking analysis confirmed favorable binding to their corresponding HLA alleles , as indicated by low Gibbs free energy change ( DeltaG ) values and dissociation constants ( K ( D ) nM ) . CONCLUSIONS : Overall , this study identified immunoactive CTL and HTL epitopes that could serve as promising candidates for future antiTB vaccine development . Further in vitro and in vivo studies are required to validate these preliminary findings .
PURPOSE : Rotator cuff ( RC ) tears affect many individuals around the globe . Ambiguity of rotator cuff repair surgical outcomes is currently a limitation that is associated with fat accumulation and atrophy in the rotator cuff muscles . To improve the efficacy of rotator cuff repairs , a deeper understanding of the root causes is required . Traditionally , the term " fat infiltration " has been used to described fatty changes in muscle after rotator cuff tears . This paper introduces the concept of fat expansion as a more appropriate description for the appearance of fatty rotator cuff tear pathological changes . Furthermore , the contribution of fibroadipogenic progenitor ( FAP ) cells to pathological changes associated with rotator cuff injuries is presented to characterize the molecular basis of impairment . Lastly , the field of regenerative engineering is discussed as a promising solution to the pathological changes associated with rotator cuff tears . METHODS : The connection between fatty infiltration , fat expansion , fat accumulation , fibroadipogenic cells , and regenerative engineering in the context of rotator cuff tears was explored using the databases PubMed and Google Scholar . RESULTS : Numerous articles have supported the role of muscle resident fibroadipogenic cells as a contributor to rotator cuff tear pathological changes . In addition , regenerative engineering solutions prove to improve the pathological changes associated with rotator cuff tears . CONCLUSION : The term fat expansion is more appropriate to describe fat accumulation associated with rotator cuff tears , and the employment of regenerative engineering treatment strategies improve the pathological changes associated with rotator cuff tears . LAY SUMMARY : Fat accumulation after rotator cuff tears has been associated with post-operative complications . Infiltration or entering of adipocytes from the external muscle environment has historically been the reported cause of the rapid increase in fat and muscle atrophy observed after rotor cuff tears . This review will dismiss the use of the term fat infiltration and acknowledge the implications of muscle resident stem cells , known as fibroadipogenic ( FAP ) cells , to rotator cuff tear pathological changes . Additionally , regenerative engineering , a field which seeks to regenerate various tissues using biomaterial-based scaffolds and stem cells , will be discussed as a potential solution for pathological changes . FAU - Merriman , Marc A Jr
Radiopharmaceutical therapy ( RPT ) is an advanced targeted cancer treatment that delivers radiation through specialized radiolabeled compounds to selectively destroy cancer cells while minimizing damage to healthy tissues . This theranostic approach integrates diagnosis and therapy , enhancing treatment precision and improving the therapeutic index compared to conventional chemotherapy . RPT agents consist of a radioactive isotope conjugated to a targeting molecule , enabling specific binding to cancer-associated antigens or receptors . Upon binding , these agents induce cell death through DNA damage caused by ionizing radiation . The choice of radionuclide , including beta and alpha emitters , plays a crucial role in determining therapeutic efficacy and potential side effects . This study aims to provide a comprehensive analysis of RPT , focusing on its mechanisms of action , clinical applications , and emerging challenges . We discuss the therapeutic potential of various radionuclides and highlight key clinical trials demonstrating efficacy across different malignancies . Additionally , we address critical issues such as optimizing delivery systems , managing radiotoxicity , and refining the dose-response relationship . Future directions include the development of novel radiopharmaceuticals and personalized treatment approaches . Further investigation is essential to overcome existing limitations and maximize the clinical benefits of RPT for patients with advanced cancers . Our findings contribute to a deeper understanding of RPT and offer insights into strategies for improving therapeutic outcomes and patient care .
Ammonia catalytic cracking offers an efficient solution for hydrogen production , storage , and distribution , making it ideal for onboard hydrogen generation in maritime propulsion systems when integrated with fuel cells . However , conventional heating methods , even with highly active ruthenium ( Ru ) catalysts , require high temperatures to achieve satisfactory performance , posing a challenge for industrial implementation . A promising strategy to address this limitation is the application of strong external electric fields , which can lower the temperature requirement through interactions between fields and the dipoles of polarized species during ammonia cracking . To explore such a field-dipole effect , we developed a multiscale simulation framework that integrates density functional theory ( DFT ) calculations with microkinetic modeling . This framework provides mechanistic insights , identifies key rate-limiting steps , and optimizes conditions for field-enhanced ammonia catalytic cracking over Ru . Our results show that at 673 K , applying a -1 V/A negative electric field dramatically increases the turnover frequency from 03 s ( -1 ) ( zero field ) to 2 s ( -1 ) . Similarly , at a higher temperature of 823 K , the negative electric field enhances the turnover frequency by 4 orders of magnitude compared to the no field conditions . In addition , applying a -1 V/A electric field reduces the operating temperature from 750 K ( zero field ) to 586 K while maintaining a given turnover frequency ( e . g . , 5 s ( -1 ) ) . Sensitivity analysis further identifies NH dehydrogenation over Ru as the rate-limiting step across various electric fields and temperatures . This multiscale model enhances the understanding of field-enhanced catalysis , offering valuable insights into the development of more efficient hydrogen production processes .
OBJECTIVES : Recently , hematological parameters such as hemoglobin , white blood cell ( WBC ) , mean platelet volume ( MPV ) , and C-reactive protein ( CRP ) have received more attention as predictors of overweight/obesity among adolescents . We aimed to investigate the association between hemoglobin , WBC , MPV , and CRP and overweight/obesity among adolescents in two regions of Sudan : River Nile State in the north and Gadarif in the east . METHODS : A multicenter community - based cross-sectional study was conducted from September 2022 to October A questionnaire was used to collect sociodemographic data . Weight , height , hematological parameters , and CRP were measured using standard procedures . Multivariate multinomial analysis was performed . RESULTS : A total of 738 adolescents ( male : 325 [0%] , female : 413 [0%] ) were recruited . The median ( interquartile , [IQR] ) age was 8 ( 1-3 ) years . Of the total , 492 ( 7% ) , 151 ( 5% ) , and 95 ( 9% ) were normal , underweight , and overweight/obese , respectively . In multivariate multinomial analysis , increasing WBC and increasing hemoglobin have shown a progressive increase in the overweight/obese group ( adjusted odds ratio [AOR] = 08 , 95% confidence interval [CI] 01-16 ) and ( AOR = 27 , 95% CI 06-53 ) , respectively . Compared with females , males were at higher risk of being underweight ( AOR = 77 , 95% 86-12 ) . CONCLUSION : This study indicates that the identified hematological predictors , specifically WBC and hemoglobin levels , can be helpful indicators for predicting overweight and obesity in adolescents in Sudan .
OBJECTIVES : Chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( CLL ) is a hematologic malignancy characterized by the excessive production of lymphocytes in the bone marrow . One of the emerging therapeutic strategies for CLL is chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T-cell therapy , wherein T-cells are genetically modified to recognize and target cancer cells more effectively . The present study aims to systematically compare the therapeutic impact of high-dose versus low-dose status of CAR T-cell therapy targeting CD19 ( CART-19 ) in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL . METHODS : To identify relevant studies , a comprehensive literature search was conducted in PubMed , Scopus , and Web of Science databases up to April The primary outcome measures included treatment response rates , assessed as complete response ( CR ) and partial response ( PR ) , and toxicity , as indicated by the incidence of cytokine release syndrome ( CRS ) . Additionally , sensitivity and bias analyses were performed to evaluate the robustness of the findings . RESULTS : Four randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) comprising 89 patients with relapsed or refractory CLL met the inclusion criteria . Comparison of treatment response rates between high-dose and low-dose CART-19 therapy demonstrated a significantly higher complete and partial response rate in the high-dose group ( SMD [95% CI] : 02 [10 , 94] ; P<05 ) . However , no significant association was observed between CTL019 dosage and the incidence of CRS ( P>05 ) . CONCLUSION : This meta-analysis suggests that high-dose CART-19 is associated with improved response rates and survival outcomes in patients with CLL compared to low-dose therapy . However , due to variability in study results , further large-scale , well-designed trials are required to establish the optimal therapeutic dosing strategy for CART-19 therapy in CLL .
Mucosal Schwann cell hamartomas ( MSCH ) are rare benign tumors typically found in the colorectal region . We present the case of an 87-year-old man with a history of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma who developed symptomatic gastrointestinal bleeding due to an appendiceal MSCH . The patient ' s ongoing melena and anemia led to further evaluation . Subsequent colonoscopy revealed active bleeding from the appendiceal orifice with hemostasis achieved using epinephrine injection . A laparoscopic appendectomy confirmed MSCH through histopathology and immunohistochemical staining . Given its rarity , this case underscores the importance of considering MSCH in unexplained gastrointestinal bleeding and demonstrates its potential to be a symptomatically significant entity .
OBJECTIVES : More individuals with SCD are living beyond initial life expectancy . Despite a growing population of older adults with SCD , little is known about their unique experiences and needs . Understanding the perspectives of older adults with SCD ( age >/= 50 years ) could provide insight on the most pressing concerns that healthcare providers should focus on and strategies to promote healthy aging . The purpose of this study was to describe the aging experiences of older adults with SCD . METHODS : In this qualitative descriptive study , we conducted semi-structured interviews with 19 older adults with SCD who received care at a single comprehensive sickle cell program in the Southeastern United States . Data were analyzed using conventional content analysis . RESULTS : A total of 3 themes were identified . Theme 1 was " challenges with aging " with 2 subthemes : ( a ) internal challenges and ( b ) external challenges . Theme 2 was " wisdom gained with age for prevention and management of complications " with 2 subthemes : ( a ) lifestyle modifications and preventing complications and ( b ) managing sickle cell pain . Theme 3 was " living beyond life expectancy " with 2 subthemes : ( a ) differences in expectations for life expectancy and ( b ) factors contributing to longevity . CONCLUSION : These perspectives from older adults with SCD provide guidance for healthcare providers on areas that are most important to them as they age . This also provides practical strategies for prevention and self-management of SCD complications that our participants reported contributed to their quality of life and longevity .
BACKGROUND : Myasthenia gravis ( MG ) is an autoimmune neuromuscular disorder caused by IgG autoantibodies targeting the neuromuscular junction . Recycling of IgG is mediated by the neonatal Fc receptor ( FcRn ) . Efgartigimod , an Fc fragment of human IgG1 , has demonstrated efficacy in MG ; however , the clinical characteristics of patients with the highest response remain unclear . METHODS : Twelve patients with AChR-positive generalized MG were treated with two cycles of Efgartigimod over 1 year , and nine patients completed a third cycle . Clinical evaluation was conducted using MG-ADL at four time points and QMG at the beginning and end of each cycle . MG-ADL and QMG scores were further subdivided into ocular ( O ) , bulbar ( B ) , and generalized ( G ) symptom subdomains , and patients were classified as predominantly ocular ( pO ) , bulbar ( pB ) , or generalized ( pG ) based on symptom prevalence . RESULTS : Significant improvements were observed in MG-ADL and QMG from baseline across all symptom subdomains . Baseline AChR antibody levels correlated with MG-ADL improvement ( p < 04 ) . Thymectomized patients demonstrated superior outcomes , with MG-ADL improving by 62% versus 22% ( p < 01 ) and QMG by 45% versus 5% ( p < 01 ) during the first two cycles . Patients with pO symptoms responded less to therapy , with generalized symptoms contributing most to the minor response . DISCUSSION : Our findings suggest that patients with high baseline AChR antibody titers , previous thymectomy , and non-ocular symptom predominance respond better to Efgartigimod . These results underscore the need for larger studies to validate these observations and optimize patient selection .
BMAL1 is a core gene involved in the regulation of circadian rhythm ; however , its role in sepsis remains incompletely understood . In this study , we investigated the molecular mechanisms by which BMAL1 influences sepsis . Sepsis models were established both in vivo using C57BL/6J mice and in vitro using THP-1-derived macrophages . We observed a significant downregulation of BMAL1 expression in peritoneal macrophages and hepatic Kupffer cells during sepsis . Overexpression of BMAL1 in macrophages via plasmid transfection suppressed LPS-induced inflammatory responses and promoted M2 macrophage polarization . Conversely , administration of STL1267 , a BMAL1 inhibitor , reduced BMAL1 expression in mice and further exacerbated systemic inflammation and multi-organ injury . Moreover , we identified PGC-1alpha as a key downstream effector of BMAL Knockdown of PGC-1alpha using short hairpin RNA ( shRNA ) abrogated BMAL1-mediated anti-inflammatory effects . Collectively , these findings uncover a novel mechanism by which BMAL1 regulates acute inflammatory responses and organ damage in sepsis , highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target .
Mistletoe extracts contain the ribosome inactivating protein viscumin , which exhibits effectiveness in alternative therapies but also presents considerable toxicity risks . Hence , specific and sensitive diagnostics for identifying viscumin exposure should be developed . This study aimed to develop monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) to viscumin and to test their protective capacity against its cytotoxic effects . A peptide epitope , representing A-chain of viscumin of 9 amino acids , was synthesized and conjugated to Bovine Serum Albumin ( BSA ) for the immunization of BALB/c mice . Spleen cells from immunized mice were fused with SP2/0 myeloma cells to obtain hybridomas . The generated mAbs for viscumin were selected through ELISA and further characterized . The cytotoxicity of mistletoe extract against Hep-G2 cells was conducted with the SRB assay , which revealed a reduction in cell viability , respectively : about 80% at 5 mug/mL , 64% at 5 mug/mL , and 46% at 10 mug/mL . Interestingly , it was observed that the mAbs significantly mitigated the cytotoxic activity of viscumin , causing the viability of about 86% at all tested concentrations . Hence , they showed potential for mAbs in developing sensitive diagnostic assays and therapeutic strategies to counteract the toxic effects of viscumin . Further mAb variants ' characterization , epitope mapping , and determination of the affinity should be conducted to improve both diagnostic and therapeutic avenues of viscumin-induced toxicity .
BACKGROUND : Systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) and dilated cardiomyopathy ( DCM ) are closely linked biologically , especially regarding immune responses . However , key biomarkers mediating the onset and development of both diseases are still lacking . This study uses bioinformatic methods to analyse the immune microenvironment of the ventricles of DCM patients and to search for biomarkers related to DCM and SLE . METHODS : Single-cell and bulk transcriptomic data for DCM were obtained from the GEO database , while GWAS data for SLE were obtained from the FinnGen database . The SMR method was used to identify genetic variants in the ventricles associated with SLE . Differential analysis was used to detect genes specific to monocyte-macrophages . Subsequently , a combination of machine learning algorithms was employed to select hub genes . Finally , small molecule drugs targeting the hub genes were retrieved from the DGIdb database . RESULTS : Mononuclear macrophages were found to be significantly infiltrated in dilated cardiomyopathy ( DCM ) samples . Seven key genes ( HLA-DQB1 , CD52 , FCER1A , etc . ) were identified by cross-tabulation analysis , of which FCER1A was the best-performing ( AUC 8-9 ) among ten machine learning models . Validation of multiple datasets showed that FCER1A was highly expressed in the DCM group , was mainly involved in the immune cell activation pathway , and strongly interacted with other cells in the myocardial microenvironment through the MK/PROS pathway . The gene was highly expressed in the middle and late stages of monocyte-macrophage differentiation and was associated with drugs such as benzathine penicillin polylysine and omalizumab . CONCLUSION : FCER1A was found to be a key differentially expressed gene in mononuclear macrophages in DCM myocardial tissue , and its significantly high expression was closely associated with immune cell activation in the myocardial microenvironment , which lays a theoretical foundation for immunotherapy of DCM and requires further clinical validation .
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to utilize single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) to elucidate the autophagic landscape in breast cancer and to develop a prognostic model for breast cancer patients based on traditional high-throughput RNA sequencing ( bulk RNA-seq ) . METHODS : We analyzed scRNA-seq data from the GSE75688 dataset to explore the expression patterns of autophagy-related genes ( ARGs ) across distinct cellular clusters . ARGs were retrieved from the GeneCards database , and bulk RNA-seq data were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) . Cox proportional hazards regression was employed to construct a prognostic risk model based on ARGs . Patients were subsequently stratified into high-risk and low-risk groups according to their risk scores . For external validation , we used gene expression data from the GSE20685 and GSE48390 datasets . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis was performed to evaluate the performance of the 3-gene signature . RESULTS : Using the FindClusters function in Seurat , all cells were grouped into four distinct clusters , highlighting the intratumoral heterogeneity within the samples . Significant differences in autophagy scores were observed among the clusters . Fifteen differentially expressed autophagy-related genes were identified , and a prognostic signature consisting of three autophagy-related genes - FEZ1 , STX11 , and ADAMTSL1 - was developed . Based on this model , patients were classified into high- and low-risk groups , with a statistically significant difference in survival between the two groups ( log-rank test , P = 0011 ) . The model demonstrated robust predictive performance with an AUC of 761 in the external validation dataset . A nomogram incorporating the 3-gene signature and clinical factors showed strong prognostic discrimination . CONCLUSION : This study uncovered significant variation in autophagy levels among different breast cancer cell clusters . Furthermore , we established a novel 3-gene autophagy-related prognostic model that effectively stratifies patient risk and provides a potential tool for personalized prognosis in breast cancer .
The synergistic interplay between RB1 deletions and TP53 mutations drives androgen deprivation therapy ( ADT ) resistance and neuroendocrine transdifferentiation in advanced prostate cancer , culminating in treatment-related neuroendocrine prostate cancer ( t-NEPC ) . This investigation systematically examines the clinicopathological characteristics and immunohistochemical phenotypes of t-NEPC to enhance diagnostic accuracy and prognostic understanding . We conducted a retrospective analysis of 23 t-NEPC cases diagnosed at the First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang University School of Medicine ( 2013-2024 ) . We collected comprehensive clinical data , including patient demographics , treatment history , and serum biomarker profiles . Immunohistochemical evaluation was performed to determine expression patterns of prostate-associated antigens , neuroendocrine markers , and tumor suppressor proteins RB1/p The cohort demonstrated a mean age of 70 years at initial prostate cancer diagnosis , with t-NEPC emerging after a median ADT duration of 18 months . Biochemical profiles revealed a characteristic dissociation between suppressed prostate-specific antigen ( PSA ) levels and elevated neuroendocrine markers alongside other tumor-associated antigens , including carcinoembryonic antigen ( CEA ) . The immunohistochemical signature of lineage transdifferentiation , indicated by the loss of androgen receptor ( AR ) and the expression of neuroendocrine markers , provides critical diagnostic clues for this aggressive variant . Molecular alterations were prevalent , with RB1 loss detected in 26% ( 18/23 ) and p53 abnormalities in 61% ( 19/23 ) cases . Notably , a histologically confirmed t-NEPC case with neuroendocrine marker negativity exhibited RB1/p53 co-alterations , molecularly aligning with most neuroendocrine-positive cases . These findings substantiate that combined RB1/p53 aberrations serve as robust diagnostic indicators for t-NEPC , particularly in tumors exhibiting small cell carcinoma morphology without neuroendocrine marker expression .
PURPOSE : Currently , there is an urgent need for prognostic prediction models for renal clear cell carcinoma ( ccRCC ) . This study aims to establish a prognostic prediction model based on differential genes associated with TNM staging and validate it through both in vitro and in vivo experiments . METHOD : Through the cross-analysis of the differential genes between T1-2 and T3-4 stages , N1 and N2 stages , as well as M0 and M1 stages in ccRCC , a nomogram prognostic model was constructed using multivariate COX regression analysis . Finally , the function of human serum amyloid A2 ( SAA2 ) was verified through in vivo and in vitro experiments . RESULT : Through cross-analysis of the differential genes between T1-2 and T3-4 stages , N1 and N2 stages , as well as M0 and M1 stages , 67 genes were identified . Through multivariate COX regression analysis , examination of expression differences between cancerous and normal tissues , and assessment of their impact on prognosis , we have derived a nomogram prognostic prediction model composed of ITPKA , PDIA2 , SAA2 , SHOX2 , TREML3P , and ZIC Furthermore , through Transwell migration and invasion assays , EdU proliferation assays , and in vivo experiments , we validated that SAA2 promotes the proliferation , migration , and invasion of ccRCC . CONCLUSION : The nomogram prognostic prediction model , consisting of ITPKA , PDIA2 , SAA2 , SHOX2 , TREML3P , and ZIC2 , is capable of predicting the prognosis of ccRCC patients . Among them , SAA2 promotes the proliferation , migration , and invasion of ccRCC cells .
Autophagy , a cellular degradation mechanism , plays a dual role in the progression and therapy of bone metastases in cancers , including prostate cancer . This review delves into the intricate roles of autophagy in both tumor suppression and progression , with a focus on its impact on bone metastasis and osteosarcoma ( OS ) . Initially , autophagy acts as a tumor suppressor by eliminating damaged organelles and proteins , thus preventing tumor initiation . However , as cancer progresses , autophagy supports cancer cell survival under stress conditions , such as nutrient deprivation and hypoxia , and contributes to drug resistance . Specifically , in bone metastasis from breast and prostate cancers , autophagy facilitates tumor cell migration , invasion , and survival . The review also highlights the therapeutic potential of targeting autophagy in cancer treatment , especially in overcoming drug resistance in osteosarcoma , where autophagy modulation could reduce chemoresistance . By understanding the dual roles of autophagy in cancer and bone metastasis , new therapeutic strategies can be developed to target this process , offering hope for improved treatment outcomes in cancers prone to bone metastasis , including prostate cancer .
OBJECTIVES : Extracellular ATP/ADP and its metabolite adenosine play crucial roles in cellular signaling by interacting with P2 and P1/adenosine receptors . These signaling molecules are regulated by ectonucleotidases , which convert ATP/ADP into adenosine . While recent studies suggest impaired ATP hydrolysis in the aging prostate , the expression and function of ectonucleotidases and purinergic receptors in the prostate gland remain unclear . This study aims to characterize the expression patterns of purinergic enzymes and receptors in the mouse prostate and investigate their functional implications . METHODS : Mouse prostate glands were isolated and analyzed using immunofluorescent staining and microscopy imaging with specific antibodies to detect purinergic enzymes and receptors . Functional studies were conducted to assess prostate smooth muscle contraction in response to purinergic agonists , particularly alpha , beta-meATP and ATPgammaS . RESULTS : Our analysis revealed distinct expression patterns of purinergic enzymes and receptors in the prostate : Ectonucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase 1 ( ENTPD1 ) and P2X1 receptors were predominantly localized in prostate smooth muscle cells , ENTPD2 and ecto-5 ' -nucleotidase ( NT5E ) in prostate interstitial cells , and alkaline phosphatase ( ALPL ) in prostate epithelial cells . Notably , ENTPD1 was identified as a key ectonucleotidase expressed in mouse prostate smooth muscle cells . Functionally , P2X1-mediated smooth muscle contraction was triggered by alpha , beta-meATP . However , ATPgammaS induced contraction even after P2X1 desensitization , suggesting the involvement of additional P2Y receptors . Further analysis confirmed the presence of P2Y1 , P2Y2 , and P2Y11 receptors in mouse prostate smooth muscle , likely mediating the ATPgammaS-induced contraction . CONCLUSIONS : This study provides a comprehensive characterization of purinergic signaling components in the mouse prostate . The identification of ENTPD1 in smooth muscle cells and the functional role of multiple P2Y receptors in smooth muscle contraction highlight potential regulatory mechanisms of prostate function . These findings lay the groundwork for future research on purinergic signaling in prostate physiology and its potential implications in age-related dysfunction , both in rodents and humans .
BACKGROUND : Computed tomography ( CT ) can assess a patient ' s body composition , thereby reflecting an individual ' s health status . Currently , there is a scarcity of research on the relationship between body composition and prognosis in patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) after esophagectomy . We assessed the independent and combined prognostic value of CT-derived body composition parameters , clinical history , pathologic findings , and inflammatory factors in patients with resected ESCC and established a predictive model . METHODS : This retrospective analysis included 142 patients with postoperative ESCC . Sarcopenia was diagnosed by assessing the skeletal muscle index at the third lumbar level of CT components . Survival analysis included the Kaplan-Meier method , and the Cox proportional hazards method was employed for multifactor analysis . The consistency index and calibration curve were used to determine the predictive accuracy and discrimination ability of the nomogram . RESULTS : Sarcopenia prevalence among the 142 patients was 0% ( 88/142 ) . The median overall survival ( OS ) and the 1- , 3- , and 5-year survival rates of patients with sarcopenia were 0 months ( 95% confidence interval : 8-2 ) , 5% , 1% , and 5% , respectively . Patients without sarcopenia had a median OS of 0 months ( 95% confidence interval : 0-0 ) , with 1- , 3- , and 5-year survival rates 0% , 9% , and 1% , respectively ( P=04 for the comparison of OS between the sarcopenia group and the non-sarcopenia group ) . In the Cox multivariate model , sarcopenia , smoking , lymphocyte albumin score , and tumor-node-metastasis ( TNM ) stage significantly correlated with postoperative survival in ESCC . The concordance index of the nomogram and calibration curve indicated good agreement between predicted and observed results . CONCLUSIONS : Sarcopenia in ESCC was negatively associated with OS . The combination of sarcopenia , pathological parameters , and inflammatory factors could independently predict the survival of patients undergoing ESCC surgery , demonstrating good prognostic value .
BACKGROUND : The treatment of locally advanced lower esophageal cancer/esophagogastric junction cancers still has certain limitations . This study shares a new therapeutic strategy , namely neoadjuvant arterial infusion chemotherapy combined with immunotherapy ( neo-AICIT ) . METHODS : The data of patients who received neoadjuvant arterial infusion chemotherapy ( docetaxel + cisplatin ) combined with immunotherapy ( tislelizumab ) for locally advanced lower esophageal cancer or esophagogastric junction cancers from October 2021 to May 2023 were collected . The indicators of these patients , such as the clinical staging of tumors , treatment-related adverse events ( TRAEs ) , the effect of neoadjuvant therapy , operative complications , tumor regression grade ( TRG ) , progression-free survival ( PFS ) , and follow-up time , were recorded . RESULTS : A total of 12 patients received a complete neoadjuvant regimen , sequential surgery , and postoperative maintenance immunotherapy . The median age was 5 years . All patients suffered from squamous cell carcinoma ; eight of them had lower esophageal cancer and four had esophagogastric junction cancer . The clinical staging in all patients was cT3N0-2M0G1- The median tumor proportion score ( TPS ) was 5% . Only grade 1 TRAEs occurred during adjuvant therapy , and the incidence was 3% ( 7/12 ) . Postoperative complications included pulmonary infection 7% ( 2/12 ) and recurrent laryngeal nerve injury 7% ( 2/12 ) . The postoperative pathology showed that 11 ( 7% , 11/12 ) patients had major pathological remission ( MPR ) with a TRG of 1-2 , while 7 ( 3% , 7/12 ) patients had pathological complete response ( pCR ) with a TRG of The objective response rate ( ORR ) was 100% . The median follow-up time was 5 months . Two patients had mediastinal lymph node metastasis at 18 and 20 months after operation , respectively . Tumor recurrence or metastasis was not found in other patients . CONCLUSIONS : Observations of small case series suggest that neo-AICIT has good safety and efficacy in the treatment of locally advanced lower esophageal/esophagogastric cancer , and may be a promising neoadjuvant treatment option .
BACKGROUND : Methylation-related regulators may be involved in the prognostic prediction of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) . Our study aimed to apply bioinformatics to screen methylation-related regulators for the construction of a prognostic model for patients with ESCC and to assess their diagnostic value and correlation with immune infiltration . METHODS : Prognosis-related genes were identified from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) database . Methylation-associated genes were filtered using the GeneCards database . We used the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) and Cox proportional hazards regression to identify the prognostic indicators . We applied the single-sample gene set enrichment analysis ( ssGSEA ) to clarify the relationship between prognostic indicators and immune infiltration in patients with ESCC ( n=82 ) . RESULTS : We constructed a prognostic model using methylation-related regulators homocysteine-inducible ER protein with ubiquitin-like domain 1 ( HERPUD1 ) , trans-2 , 3-enoyl-CoA reductase ( TECR ) , melanoma antigen gene A11 ( MAGEA11 ) , and NOP2/Sun RNA methyltransferase 6 ( NSUN6 ) to evaluate the prognosis of patients with ESCC . A higher prognostic risk score was associated with shorter overall survival ( OS ) in patients with ESCC [hazard ratio ( HR ) =77 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 13-58 ; P<001] . Time-dependent area under the curve ( AUC ) analysis revealed that HERPUD1 , TECR , MAGEA11 , and NSUN6 had high prognostic predictive value at different time points . Furthermore , we found that the combined diagnostic model based on HERPUD1 , TECR , MAGEA11 , and NSUN6 had excellent diagnostic efficacy for ESCC ( AUC =911 ; 95% CI : 888-935 ) . Finally , the ssGSEA algorithm showed that HERPUD1 was significantly positively correlated with immune infiltration at both the cellular and genetic levels , while TECR showed a significant negative correlation with immune infiltration levels . CONCLUSIONS : Our prognostic model , built with the methylation-related regulators HERPUD1 , TECR , MAGEA11 , and NSUN6 , could effectively predict prognosis in patients with ESCC , enhance diagnostic efficacy , and reflect immune cell infiltration in their microenvironment . Our findings are hypothesis generating and larger confirmatory studies are needed to validate our results .
BACKGROUND : Cellular metabolism is critical for endothelial cell function . Pulmonary artery endothelial cell ( PAEC ) dysfunction contributes to the progression from pulmonary embolism ( PE ) to chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension ( CTEPH ) . The mechanisms of metabolic changes in PAECs during this progression remain unclear . This study aimed to explore the role of the miR-124/PTBP1/PKM signaling axis in endothelial metabolic reprogramming and pulmonary arterial intimal remodeling in pulmonary thromboembolism ( PTE ) . METHODS : A PTE rat model was established through repeated autologous thrombus injections into the external jugular veins . The miR-124 levels were restored using a miR-124 mimic , and pathological changes in the pulmonary arteries and thrombi were observed . The expression levels of PTBP1 , PKM2 , PKM1 , MPC1 , and MPC2 in the pulmonary arterial intima were assessed using immunohistochemistry , polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) , and western blotting . Biochemical methods were employed to measure blood lactate levels . RESULTS : Compared to the normal control group , rats with PTE exhibited increased PTBP1 and PKM2 expression in the pulmonary arterial intima , while miR-124 , PKM1 , MPC1 , and MPC2 expression levels were reduced . Overexpression of miR-124 lowered PTBP1 and PKM2 levels in the intima while elevating PKM1 , MPC1 , and MPC2 levels , ultimately leading to a reduction in lactic acid production . CONCLUSIONS : In the PTE rat model , elevated lactate levels , decreased miR-124 expression in the pulmonary arterial intima , and disrupted energy metabolism were observed . The miR-124/PTBP1/PKM signaling axis may play a role in the reprogramming of cell metabolism during chronic PTE , ultimately contributing to pulmonary arterial intimal remodeling .
BACKGROUND : Although neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy is associated with higher rates of pathologic complete response ( pCR ) among patients with locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , data on long-term outcomes after pCR are lacking . Some patients with pCR still experience relapse of disease within a short period of time . Therefore , the aim of this study was to define the long-term survival and relapse patterns in this group of patients . METHODS : We retrospectively analyzed patients with stage IB to IIIB NSCLC who had pCR after treatment with immunochemotherapy and surgery at four high-volume medical centers from 2018 to Survival status and patterns of relapse were determined . Univariable and multivariable analyses were performed to identify risk factors associated with recurrence and survival . RESULTS : In total , 130 patients were included in the study . Median follow-up was 3 months . Three-year disease-free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) were 6% and 5% , respectively . Eleven patients had relapse ; the median time to relapse was 6 months . Six patients had intrathoracic relapse , and 5 had extrathoracic relapse ; 1 patient died of progression of disease . Most patients [10/11 ( 9% ) ] had relapse within 18 months of surgery . On univariable analysis , no factors were associated with risk of relapse . CONCLUSIONS : Patients with NSCLC who have pCR after neoadjuvant immunochemotherapy followed by surgery have a good prognosis ; however , some patients with pCR experience relapse within a short period of time . This finding suggests that a more comprehensive surveillance protocol may be beneficial for these patients . Molecular testing may be helpful for guiding postoperative therapy and predicting recurrence .
BACKGROUND : Sublobar resection for small peripheral non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) ( </=2 cm ) became one of the standard procedures . Retrospective studies demonstrated that pathological pleural invasion ( pPL ) is associated with a higher risk of local recurrence during sublobar resection . If pPL can be properly assessed intraoperatively , converting to lobectomy may reduce the risk of local recurrence associated with sublobar resection . The study objective was to develop a deep learning algorithm predicting pPL from thoracoscopic images . METHODS : Among consecutive patients who underwent radical thoracoscopic surgery for cT1N0M0 NSCLC ( TNM 8th ) from 5/2020 to 3/2022 , 80 patients with pleural surface changes due to tumor ( excluding cTis/1mi or peritumoral adhesions ) were included . A tumor recognition deep learning model using the ResNet50 architecture was constructed from images and the focus was visualized using gradient-weighted class activation mapping ( Grad-CAM ) . Among images in which a tumor is visible , the presence of pPL was predicted ( trained on 64 , validated on 16 ) . Predictive ability was compared with the surgeons ' intraoperative evaluation using McNemar ' s test . RESULTS : Among 80 patients ( age 69+/-10 years , 5% female , tumor diameter 20+/-7 mm ) , pPL was found in 22 patients . Compared to the pPL- group , the pPL+ group was significantly older , with larger solid diameter , more pure solid nodules , and higher SUV max . Among the 422 , 873 images extracted from all 80 videos , 2 , 074 images showed tumors , of which 608 images were pPL+ . The tumor recognition algorithm had an image-level accuracy of 78 and F1 score of The pPL model had a patient-level accuracy of 69 , while the accuracy of thoracic surgeons was 75 ( P=32 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Deep learning analysis of thoracoscopic images of lung cancer surgery showed the possibility of prediction of pPL to a comparable degree to surgeons .
BACKGROUND : Lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) is the most frequently diagnosed subtype of non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) . Notably , prognosis can vary significantly among LUAD patients with different tumor subtypes . The advent of radiomics and machine learning ( ML ) technologies enables the development of non-invasive pathology predictive models . We attempted to develop computed tomography ( CT ) radiomics-based diagnostic models , enhanced by ML , to predict LUAD malignancy grade and guide surgical strategies . METHODS : In this retrospective analysis , a total of 168 surgical patients with histology-confirmed LUAD were divided into low-risk group ( n=93 ) and intermediate-to-high-risk group ( n=75 ) based on postoperative pathology . The region of interest ( ROI ) was delineated on the preoperative CT images for all patients , followed by the extraction of radiomic features . Patients were randomly allocated to a training set ( n=117 ) and a testing set ( n=51 ) in a 7 : 3 ratio . Within the training set , clinical-radiological model ( CM ) and radiomics model ( RM ) were developed utilizing patients ' clinical characteristics , radiological semantic features , and radiomic features , along with the calculation of Rad scores . After the Rad scores were combined with independent risk factors among clinical-radiological features , logistic regression ( LR ) , decision tree ( DT ) , random forest ( RF ) , extreme gradient boosting ( XGBoost ) , support vector machine ( SVM ) , K-nearest neighbors ( KNN ) , and naive Bayes model ( NBM ) were employed to create different comprehensive models ( COMs ) . The optimal model was identified based on the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves and the DeLong test . Finally , Shapley additive explanations ( SHAP ) were utilized to visualize the predictive processes of the models . RESULTS : Among the 168 patients enrolled , there were 50 males ( 76% ) aged 56 ( 25 , 00 ) years and 118 females ( 24% ) aged 5 ( 00 , 00 ) years ; Diameter ( P<001 ) , and consolidation-to-tumor ratio ( CTR ) >/=5 ( P=002 ) were identified as independent risk factors for the malignancy degree of LUAD during CM creation . The CM had an area under the ROC curve ( AUC ) of 909 [95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 856-962] in the training set and 920 ( 95% CI : 846-994 ) in the testing set . The RM , comprising seven radiomic features , achieved an AUC of 961 ( 95% CI : 926-996 ) in the training set and 957 ( 95% CI : 905-000 ) in the testing set . Among models created using various ML algorithms , the XGBoost model was identified as the optimal model . SHAP visualization revealed the model prediction processes and the values of different features . CONCLUSIONS : We constructed and validated a robust , integrative model leveraging ML and CT radiomics , which amalgamates radiomics , clinical , and radiological attributes to precisely identify LUADs with elevated postoperative pathological grades . This enables doctors to formulate different surgical plans according to the pathology of the patients ' tumors before the operation .
BACKGROUND : Currently , sepsis has an extremely high mortality rate and no specific treatment . Mendelian Randomization ( MR ) can utilize genetic variants as instrumental variables ( IVs ) to infer causal relationships between protein biomarkers and sepsis . We conducted a proteome-wide MR study to identify biological markers and therapeutic targets associated with sepsis . METHODS : The protein quantitative trait locus ( pQTL ) were analyzed using two data sources : 734 proteins from Zheng et al . ; and 4 , 907 proteins from the deCODE database . The causal relationship between the candidate proteins and sepsis was then verified by a two-sample MR analysis , colocalization analysis , and summary data-based Mendelian randomization ( SMR ) analysis . A protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) analysis , transcriptome difference analysis , single-cell expression analysis , and druggability assessment were also performed to detect specific cell types and rank therapeutic targets . RESULTS : Elevated levels of CD33 [odds ratio ( OR ) 04 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 02-05 , P=006] and LY9 ( OR 10 , 95% CI : 05-15 , P=01 ) were associated with an increased risk of sepsis , which were considered convincing evidence . CD33 is predominantly seen in acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , and relevant related drugs are currently in development . While LY9 is predominantly seen in multiple sclerosis , but information on its related drugs is lacking . Both proteins may be potential targets for sepsis . CONCLUSIONS : This study identified several protein biomarkers associated with the risk of sepsis , provided novel insights into the etiology of sepsis , and identified promising targets ( CD33 and LY9 ) for the development of therapeutic drugs for sepsis .
BACKGROUND : Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) with liver metastasis carries a poor prognosis , and evidence for optimal treatment strategies remains limited . The combination of radiotherapy ( RT ) and immunochemotherapy has shown promise in improving survival outcomes for patients with advanced NSCLC , however , large cohort studies targeting NSCLC with liver metastasis are lacking . The purpose of this study was to analyze the impact of RT combined with immunochemotherapy on the long-term survival of NSCLC patients with liver metastasis leveraging data from the Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results Program ( SEER ) database and Xinqiao Hospital in China . METHODS : Patients diagnosed with NSCLC and liver metastasis between 2010 and 2020 were screened from the SEER 17 registry . Patients were categorized into three cohorts : immunochemotherapy alone ( IOC ) , RT + immunochemotherapy ( RT + IOC ) and chemotherapy + RT ( CRT ) . Survival analysis , propensity score matching ( PSM ) , subgroup analysis , and Cox regression were performed . The primary endpoints were overall survival ( OS ) and cancer-specific survival ( CSS ) . Additionally , data from Xinqiao Hospital were used for validation . RESULTS : A total of 6 , 309 patients were enrolled , including 1 , 691 in the IOC cohort , 1 , 605 in the RT + IOC cohort , and 3 , 013 in the CRT cohort . The median overall survival ( mOS ) was significantly higher in the RT + IOC cohort compared to the IOC cohort ( 9 vs . 7 months , P<001 ) . Similar results were observed for median cancer-specific survival ( mCSS ) . After PSM , the survival benefits of the RT + IOC cohort persisted . Subgroup analysis revealed that most subgroups favored RT + IOC treatment . Xinqiao Hospital data further validated these findings with better median progression-free survival ( mPFS ) in RT + IOC cohort compared to the IOC cohort ( 3 vs . 1 months , P=03 ) and mOS ( 2 vs . 7 months , P=02 ) . Furthermore , the discrepancies in survival between RT + IOC cohort and CRT cohort were compared . The SEER data revealed that the mOS and mCSS were better in RT + IOC cohort both before and after PSM . Our single-center data further validated the survival benefits of RT + IOC treatment when compared to CRT treatment . CONCLUSIONS : The combination of radiotherapy and immunochemotherapy provides better survival benefits for NSCLC patients with liver metastasis than immunochemotherapy alone or chemotherapy + radiotherapy . Further research is necessary to explore the optimal radiotherapy methods for this patient population .
BACKGROUND : Although minimally invasive sleeve lobectomy ( SL ) preserves lung function , it is a complex and demanding thoracic surgical technique . This study aimed to evaluate perioperative and long-term outcomes of robot-assisted thoracic surgery ( RATS ) versus video-assisted thoracic surgery ( VATS ) in patients with non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) undergoing SL , and explore the safety and feasibility of robot-assisted SL in patients following neoadjuvant therapy . METHODS : A retrospective analysis was performed on a cohort of patients diagnosed with NSCLC who underwent minimally invasive SL at a high-volume center between December 2019 and February Demographic characteristics , perioperative outcomes , and survival rates were compared between the RATS and VATS groups . RESULTS : The study enrolled 347 patients with NSCLC , 78 ( 5% ) patients received RATS and 269 ( 5% ) patients received VATS . In the overall cohort , the RATS group was associated with a greater number of dissected lymph nodes ( 0 vs . 0 ; P=048 ) and a lower conversion rate ( 4% vs . 2% ; P=01 ) than the VATS group . The overall median follow-up for the entire cohort was 34 [interquartile range ( IQR ) , 26-42] months , with 30 ( IQR , 26-38 ) months in the RATS group and 35 ( IQR , 25-44 ) months in the VATS group . The Kaplan-Meier survival curves showed no significant difference in overall survival and progression-free survival ( P=68 and P=98 , respectively ) between the groups . CONCLUSIONS : Robot-assisted SL shows comparable results to VATS group for perioperative and long-term tumor prognosis . For patients who have received neoadjuvant therapy , robot-assisted SL is a safe and feasible option .
BACKGROUND : Acute exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( AECOPD ) are a significant disease , and the main burden on global human health and economy . Currently , the pulmonary function test is the most common method for diagnosing AECOPD in clinical practice . The three levels ( Grade I , II and III ) of AECOPD exhibit different clinical characteristics and have a significant impact on the treatment and prognosis of patients . This study examined the correlation between serum lactic acid , pre-albumin , and lymphocyte levels , and the severity of AECOPD . METHODS : A total of 261 patients with AECOPD were divided into the following three grades : Grade I : patients without respiratory failure . Grade II : patients with non-life-threatening respiratory failure ; and Grade III : patients with life-threatening respiratory failure . The serum markers of the patients were analyzed . Flow cytometry was used to identify T , B , and natural killer ( NK ) lymphocyte subgroups , while immunoturbidimetry and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) were used to detect pre-albumin and lactic acid levels , respectively . RESULTS : Cluster of differentiation ( CD ) 3 ( + ) T cells , CD4 ( + ) T cells , and the CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) ratio were significantly higher in the Grade I group , while CD19 ( + ) B cells were significantly lower in the Grade II group . The Grade I group also had higher levels of CD56 ( + ) cells than the Grade III group . Serum pre-albumin levels were significantly lower in Grade II and III groups , while serum lactate levels were significantly higher in the Grade III group . C-reactive protein ( CRP ) levels were also higher in the Grade II group . CONCLUSIONS : Serum pre-albumin , lactate , and lymphocyte levels were found to be closely related to the severity of AECOPD , and could be potential biomarkers for clinical diagnosis .
BACKGROUND : A lung sealant based on a porcine gelatin carrier impregnated with N-hydroxysuccinimide ester functionalized polyoxazolines ( NHS-POx ) and nucleophilically activated polyoxazolines ( NU-POx ) was shown to be efficacious for lung sealing ex-vivo and in-vivo . In the current study , we investigated the local biocompatibility by assessing inflammation , healing , and biodegradability in an ovine model of superficial parenchymal lung injury . METHODS : Three groups , NHS-POx , fibrin patch ( TachoSil ( ( R ) ) ) and untreated control , are randomly applied to superficial lesions ( 3 mm depth ) on the right lung ( n=3/lung ) of adult female domestic sheep , which are sacrificed for blinded histological assessment at 5 , 14 , and 42 days ( n=4 animals per term ) . Semi-quantitative scoring ( scale 0-4 ) was performed on immune cell subtypes ( polymorphonuclear cells , lymphocytes , plasma cells , macrophages , giant cells , necrosis ) and biomaterial response ( fibrosis , neovascularization , fatty infiltrate ) . Post-hoc analysis was performed for a suspected labeling mistake and adapted datasets were obtained ( 6 weeks ) . RESULTS : The total cell response score was significantly higher for NHS-POx vs . control [score : 5 ( range , 9-13 ) vs . 7 ( range , 6-8 ) , P=005] at 5 days , and for fibrin patch vs . control [score : 14 ( range , 12-17 ) vs . 7 ( range , 5-8 ) , P=02] at 2 weeks . At 6 weeks , cell response was similar between groups ( P=22 ) , with outliers due to granulomatous inflammation to residual patch ( n=1 fibrin patch and n=1 mix-up sample likely fibrin patch ) . Wound healing , fibrosis , and neovascularization were similar across groups , showing local pleural thickening . NHS-POx patch showed mesothelial coverage at 2 weeks and was macro- and microscopically completely degraded at 6 weeks with replacement of the patch material with extracellular matrix ( adapted data ) . CONCLUSIONS : The NHS-POx patch shows a comparable to favorable biocompatibility profile compared to fibrin patch , and is a potent candidate for clinical lung sealing applications .
BACKGROUND : Pulmonary large-cell neuroendocrine carcinoma ( LCNEC ) and small-cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) are classified as types of high-grade neuroendocrine carcinoma ( HGNEC ) . The aim of this study was to determine the similarities and differences in clinical features and prognosis between LCNEC and SCLC . METHODS : We retrospectively compared the clinical features and prognosis of LCNEC and SCLC , along with well as their two subtypes , including pure LCNEC ( P-LCNEC ) and combined LCNEC ( C-LCNEC ) and SCLC combined with LCNEC and SCLC combined with non-LCNEC , respectively . Disease-free survival ( DFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) were calculated using the Kaplan-Meier method . RESULTS : We included 341 patients with LCNEC and 580 patients with SCLC who underwent surgical treatment . Significant differences in smoking history , primary site , tumor location , pathological ( p ) N stage , pTNM stage , and visceral pleural invasion ( VPI ) were observed between LCNEC and SCLC groups ( all P values <05 ) . The subgroups of LCNEC ( P-LCNEC and C-LCNEC ) and SCLC ( SCLC/LCNEC and SCLC/non-LCNEC ) displayed differences in smoking history , primary site , tumor location , pT stage , pN stage , pTNM stage , VPI , adjuvant chemotherapy , and postoperative adjuvant radiotherapy . LCNEC and its subtypes P-LCNEC and C-LCNEC were associated with superior DFS and OS than were SCLC and its subtypes SCLC/LCNEC and SCLC/non-LCNEC ( DFS : P=008 , P=001 , P=049 ; OS : P=005 , P=005 , P=006 ) . Compared to patients who did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy , those with stage I SCLC or LCNEC who underwent adjuvant chemotherapy demonstrated a significantly improved DFS ( P=005 and P=048 ) and OS ( P=004 and P=03 ) . CONCLUSIONS : LCNEC and SCLC , as well as their subtypes , have distinct clinical features and survival outcomes . SCLC exhibited more malignant biological behavior and was associated with a worse prognosis compared to LCNEC . Postoperative chemotherapy is recommended for patients with stage I HGNEC .
BACKGROUND : Cancer-associated fibroblasts ( CAFs ) are pivotal regulators of the tumor immune microenvironment , shaping immune responses and influencing therapeutic outcomes . While previous studies have predominantly focused on CAF subpopulations that impair responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) , CAF subsets associated with favorable ICIs responses in lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) remain underexplored . In this study , we integrated bulk RNA and single-cell RNA sequencing data from LUAD samples to identify CAF subpopulations relevant to ICIs efficacy . METHODS : Using a machine learning-driven approach , we developed a robust immune response signature based on this antigen-presenting CAFs ( apCAFs ) subset to predict ICIs responses . RESULTS : We uncovered a novel subset of apCAFs exhibiting macrophage-like features , characterized by the expression of major histocompatibility complex ( MHC ) class II , CD74 , and costimulatory molecules ( CD80 , CD86 , CD83 , and CD40 ) . This subset , distinct from classic apCAFs described in other cancer types , is strongly associated with favorable ICIs responses across multiple datasets . Notably , these macrophage-like apCAFs are present in LUAD samples prior to treatment , although their abundance varies among individuals . Patients classified as high-risk using signature calculated by a machine learning-driven approach exhibited lower overall survival rates and diminished immune cell infiltration following ICIs therapy . CONCLUSIONS : Collectively , our findings establish a critical link between macrophage-like apCAFs and ICIs efficacy , offering a clinically applicable signature for patient stratification and guiding therapeutic strategies targeting the tumor microenvironment .
BACKGROUND : OK-432 ( Picibanil ) , derived from Streptococcus pyogenes type A3 , is widely used for both cancer immunotherapy and pleurodesis to manage pleural effusions and air leaks . While its efficacy and safety in pleurodesis are well-established , its potential immunomodulatory effects on long-term survival outcomes in lung cancer patients remain unclear . This study aims to evaluate whether OK-432 pleurodesis influences postoperative survival and recurrence outcomes following pulmonary lobectomy for non-small cell lung cancer . METHODS : This retrospective study analyzed data from 413 patients who underwent pulmonary lobectomy for non-small cell lung cancer between January 2010 and December Patients were categorized into two groups : those who underwent OK-432 pleurodesis for prolonged air leaks or chylothorax ( n=23 ) and a control group receiving other treatments or none ( n=390 ) . We examined demographics , surgical outcomes , and postoperative complications , assessing survival and recurrence using the Kaplan-Meier method and Cox proportional hazards models . RESULTS : The administration of OK-432 effectively managed air leaks and chylothorax without significant complications . There were no statistically significant differences in overall survival ( OS ) , lung cancer-specific survival ( LCSS ) , or recurrence-free survival ( RFS ) between the groups . Advanced pathological stages were significant predictors of mortality and recurrence . CONCLUSIONS : While OK-432 pleurodesis is effective for the management of air leaks and chylothorax following pulmonary lobectomy , this study did not demonstrate any impact on OS , LCSS , or RFS . These findings confirm the utility of OK-432 in addressing immediate postoperative challenges but do not support its use as a prognostic factor in the long-term management of lung cancer . Further investigation is necessary to explore the full spectrum of OK-432 ' s biological effects and potential benefits in a broader oncological context .
BACKGROUND : At present , the definition of lymph node skipping metastases ( NSM ) in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) is not uniform , and there were few clinical prognostic models with NSM as a factor . On the other hand , N-staging of ESCC has long been controversial . This study aimed to define NSM in ESCC and investigate its prognostic implications . Meanwhile , according to the cumulative number of cervical , thoracic and abdominal region lymph nodes , a new N-stage was defined and compared with the N-stage of American Joint Committee on Cancer/the Union for International Cancer Control ( AJCC/UICC ) and Japan Esophageal Society ( JES ) . METHODS : ESCC patients who underwent radical esophagectomy with lymph node metastases ( LNM ) between January 2012 and December 2022 at Mianyang Central Hospital and West China Hospital of Sichuan University . Patients were grouped into training and external validation cohorts . NSM was defined as any LNM outside the primary tumor region . Meanwhile , this study created a new postoperative pathology N-staging [PN ( n ) ] based on the regional division of LNM to compare with the 8th edition of the AJCC/UICC and the 11th edition of JES N-staging . RESULTS : There were 232 patients enrolled ( training : 161 ; validation : 71 ) . Cox-regression identified factors that could predict outcomes independently . Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was performed . Model performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC ) and calibration plots . Independent risk factors for death included NSM [hazard ratio ( HR ) =5202] , age ( HR =036 ) , T-stage ( HR =874 ) , and AJCC/UICC N stage ( HR =9601 ) . Prognostic models for 1-year ( AUC : 923 , 985 ) , 3-year ( AUC : 747 , 746 ) , and 5-year ( AUC : 695 , 713 ) survival showed high accuracy . CONCLUSIONS : NSM is associated with worse overall survival ( OS ) in ESCC , and the constructed prognostic model effectively predicts OS for ESCC patients .
BACKGROUND : The incidence and mortality rates of lung cancer are exceptionally high . Many patients are diagnosed with early stage lung cancer but experience rapid recurrence post-surgery . Many research studies have shown that the unfavorable prognosis of patients may be associated with micro-metastasis in the lymph nodes . Our research aimed to develop a nomogram to predict the prognosis of lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) . METHODS : Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) data were analyzed to identify 11 cell clusters . Patterns of incoming and outgoing signals were identified across the entire cell population . A weighted gene co-expression network analysis ( WGCNA ) was conducted to uncover critical genes in LUAD . The intersecting marker genes were used to construct the prognostic model . RESULTS : scRNA-seq data were analyzed to identify 19 cell clusters . We identified 3 , 464 marker genes from the scRNA-seq dataset , 1 , 994 differentially expressed genes from the bulk RNA sequencing ( RNA-seq ) dataset , and 1 , 863 genes associated with a key module identified by the WGCNA . After performing the intersection , univariate Cox , and least absolute shrinkage and selection operator analyses , a prognostic model was established based on the expression levels of 13 signature genes . Subsequent functional experiments confirmed the role of selected regulated genes . CONCLUSIONS : Through the integration of scRNA-seq data and bulk RNA-seq data , we developed an innovative model to predict the prognosis of patients . The risk score was found to be a significant independent predictor and clinical-pathological features of LUAD .
Acute lung injury ( ALI ) poses a significant clinical challenge due to its high morbidity and mortality rates . Current treatment options are limited in their efficacy , necessitating the exploration of novel therapeutic targets . The mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) , a crucial regulator of various cellular processes , has been implicated in the pathogenesis of ALI . Autophagy , a tightly regulated cellular degradation process controlled by mTOR , plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of ALI and cellular homeostasis . Mounting evidence also suggests that the mTOR pathway and autophagy play crucial roles in the pathogenesis and regulation of ALI . Herein , we reviewed the current understanding of how mTOR signaling and autophagy intersect in the context of ALI , with a focus on their roles across different cell types . This analysis highlights their dual roles in either promoting pulmonary injury or providing protection , depending on the specific cell types and different ALI models . Insights into the intricate balance between mTOR-mediated pathways and autophagic responses provide a foundation for developing targeted therapeutic strategies aimed at alleviating ALI through the modulation of these pathways . This review underscores the therapeutic potential of targeting mTOR and autophagy , presenting innovative and promising approaches for improving the clinical management and outcomes of ALI .
BACKGROUND : Photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) is an effective endoscopic therapy indicated for early esophageal cancer , but there have been few reports of PDT for circumferential lesions so far . The objective of this study is to investigate the clinical outcome of PDT for patients with whole-circumferential early esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) , especially the subsequent process of esophageal stricture . METHODS : Twelve patients with whole-circumferential early ESCC , who received PDT between January 2020 and July 2022 at the First Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University were retrospectively evaluated . An analysis for comparisons between the results of PDT and contemporaneous endoscopic submucosal dissection ( ESD ) for similar esophageal lesions was conducted . RESULTS : The complete response ( CR ) rate was 33% after PDT treatment for a median tumor length of 5 cm . A longer tumor length ( >10 cm ) was the risk factor of PDT failure ( P=045 ) . Compared to the ESD group , the procedure was significantly shorter for PDT , and postoperative fever and bleeding seemed to occur less . Without prophylactic measures , the esophageal stricture rate was 80% after PDT , which was close to that in the ESD group with steroid administration ( 9% , P>99 ) . The mean onset time of obvious dysphagia was 63+/-34 and 29+/-49 weeks respectively after PDT and ESD ( P=02 ) . The post-PDT esophageal strictures were easily resolved with a simpler dilation modality and the estimated dysphagia duration tended to be shorter than that after ESD ( 72+/-04 vs . 69+/-24 months , P=08 ) . Nevertheless , chest pain appeared more frequently in PDT than that in ESD . CONCLUSIONS : PDT can be expected to be an effective and safe endoscopic modality for long-segment and whole-circumferential early ESCC .
BACKGROUND : According to reports from China , esophageal cancer ranked sixth in terms of morbidity and accounted for 26% of all cancer cases in China . This study aimed to establish an effective prognostic nomogram for non-adjuvant therapy in patients with stage I to III esophageal cancer . METHODS : We took up cases from 2010 to 2015 from the Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results ( SEER ) database and used R language software to perform Kaplan-Meier survival curve and multivariate Cox regression analysis . Furthermore , we established the nomogram for non-adjuvant therapy patients with stage I to III esophageal cancer to predict 3- and 5-year esophageal cancer-specific survival rate . The prognostic ability of the nomogram was assessed using the C-index , area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve , and calibration chart . RESULTS : The esophageal cancer-specific survival rate of cancer in the lower third of the esophagus was significantly higher than that of cancers in the upper-third of the esophagus as per the Kaplan-Meier curve . Based on the multivariate Cox regression analysis , sub variables such as advanced age , stage II and III , squamous cell carcinoma , moderately differentiated ( grade II ) , poorly differentiated ( grade III ) , and undifferentiated ( grade IV ) cancer significantly increased risk of prognosis in all patients . With a total of 150 points in the nomogram , the 3- and 5-year esophageal cancer-specific survival rates were 50% and 40% respectively . The value of C-index of this model was 851 and the value of the area under receiver operating curve projected 1- , 3- , and 5-year esophageal cancer-specific survival rates of 884 , 874 , and 856 , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : The established nomogram had good prediction ability for non-adjuvant therapy patients with stage I to III esophageal cancer .
BACKGROUND : Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) diagnosed in younger patients represents a rare and distinct entity within lung cancer , yet prognostic indicators for younger patients surgically treated for NSCLC remain unclear . We aimed to analyze the long-term surgical outcomes in a large cohort and to identify predictors and to develop nomograms for effective survival prediction . METHODS : The Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results ( SEER ) database [2010-2020] was queried for pathologically confirmed NSCLC cases who underwent cancer-directed surgery . We selected a cutoff age of 49 years or younger to define the younger cohort . The Kaplan-Meier method was used for survival analysis . Cox proportional hazards regression models were used to determine prognostic parameters associated with survival . Nomogram performance was assessed via receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves and calibration curves in both the training and validation cohort . RESULTS : Among the 2 , 584 younger patients surgically treated for NSCLC meeting the inclusion criteria , the 5-year overall survival ( OS ) and lung cancer-specific survival ( LCSS ) rates were 3% and 0% , respectively . Multivariate analysis identified age , gender , histology , T stage , tumor , node , metastasis ( TNM ) stage , and postoperative therapy as independent prognosticators . Nomograms exhibited robust predictive performance . The ROC areas for 5-year OS were 816 for the training cohort and 811 for the validation cohort , while for the 5-year LCSS , the areas were 845 and 848 , respectively . Additionally , the calibration curves demonstrated a high degree of concordance between the actual and predicted values . CONCLUSIONS : We identified the independent survival factors among younger patients treated surgically for NSCLC and established nomograms for the prediction of the long-term survival , offering valuable insights into clinical decision-making for post-surgical treatment .
BACKGROUND : Programmed cell death ( PCD ) plays a pivotal role in the development and progression of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , which remains the leading cause of mortality worldwide . Among the various types of PCD , autophagy , ferroptosis , necroptosis , and pyroptosis have garnered increasing attention due to their involvement in inflammation , oxidative stress , and cardiomyocyte survival . Although numerous studies have explored the underlying mechanisms of these pathways , their therapeutic potential in clinical practice remains limited . With the rapid growth of publications in this field , a comprehensive understanding of research trends and influential studies is essential to guide future investigations . This study aimed to characterize the progress and research hotspots of autophagy in CVD , ferroptosis in CVD , necroptosis in CVD , and pyroptosis in CVD through a bibliometric analysis to provide a comprehensive overview of PCD in CVD . METHODS : Publications from January 1 , 2009 , to December 31 , 2023 , were analyzed using the " bibliometrix " R package to assess research output , key contributors , and influential journals in each field . RESULTS : For the topic of autophagy in CVD , 6 , 426 articles published by 4 , 891 institutions from 90 countries/regions were retrieved . For the topic of necroptosis in CVD , 393 articles from 616 organizations in 53 countries/regions were retrieved . For the topic of pyroptosis in CVD , 640 publications from 754 institutions in 48 countries/regions were retrieved . Finally , for the topic of ferroptosis in CVD , 687 articles from 827 institutions in 49 countries/regions were retrieved . Key contributors included Adriana A ( 22 publications on necroptosis ) , Ge J , and Ye B ( 8 publications each on pyroptosis ) , and Ren J ( lead contributor in autophagy and ferroptosis , with 120 and 10 publications , respectively ) . The most frequently co-cited journals were Cell , Nature , Free Radical Biology and Medicine , and the Journal of Biological Chemistry . CONCLUSIONS : This bibliometric analysis highlights the growing interest in PCD in CVD research , with autophagy and pyroptosis being the central themes . Future studies should examine therapeutic strategies targeting ferroptosis and necroptosis to improve CVD treatment . The findings provide a roadmap for researchers to navigate emerging research hotspots and foster interdisciplinary collaboration .
BACKGROUND : Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) is characterized by irreversible air fl ow limitation and chronic airway in fl ammation . Obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA ) is a common clinical condition with partial or complete pharyngeal collapses occurring repeatedly during sleep . COPD-OSA is the coexistence of COPD and OSA . Abnormal macrophages play important roles in COPD progression . Sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) has emerged as an important molecule in COPD . This study aimed to explore the change and potential functional mechanism of S1P in COPD and COPD-OSA . METHODS : Flow cytometry ( FCM ) was used to detect the M1 and M2 macrophage cell ratio . Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) was used to detect the S1P levels . Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR ) and western blot were used to detect the expression levels of S1P receptor 1 ( S1PR1 ) and histone deacetylase 1 ( HDAC1 ) . Cytokine levels were detected by multiple microsphere flow immunofluorescence assay . The THP-1 cells of in vitro models were exposed to cigarette smoke extract ( CSE ) . RESULTS : Firstly , we found that the ratio of pro-inflammatory M1 macrophage was increased in COPD and COPD-OSA patients [vs . healthy controls ( HCs ) ] , whereas that of anti-inflammatory M2 macrophage was decreased . Notably , compared with COPD alone , COPD-OSA showed more M1 macrophage and less M2 macrophage . Secondly , we observed significantly increased plasma S1P levels in COPD and COPD-OSA ( level : COPD-OSA > COPD > HC ) . Furthermore , the effect of S1P on macrophage polarization was investigated . The results showed that S1P treatment could enhance the efficiency of M1 polarization of THP-1 in response to lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) /interferon-gamma ( IFN-gamma ) stimulation , which could be reversed by a S1P antagonis-FTY Thirdly , we explored the potential mechanism of S1P in macrophage polarization . The data showed that S1P treatment could enhance expression of S1PR1 in THP-1 cells , which could be reversed by FTY S1PR1 overexpression could facilitate the M1 polarization of THP-1 in response to LPS/IFN-gamma . Correspondingly , in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) and monocyte-derived macrophages ( MDMs ) from COPD and COPD-OSA , the S1PR1 expression levels were higher than that from HC . Additionally , HDAC1 expression was decreased in THP-1 by S1P treatment . HDAC1 overexpression could inhibit M1 polarization efficiency of THP-1 in response to LPS/IFN-gamma . Notably , the expression of HDAC1 was lower in PBMC and MDM from COPD and COPD-OSA patients ( vs . HCs ) . CONCLUSIONS : This study suggested that increasing S1P levels could facilitate macrophage polarization toward M1 subtype in COPD and COPD-OSA , via enhancing S1PR1 signaling or inhibiting HDAC1 signaling .
BACKGROUND : Lung nodules can be classified as solid nodules and ground-glass opacity nodules ( GGO-GGN ) . A GGO nodule is a radiological finding characterized by a faded opacity that may hide a preinvasive or invasive adenocarcinoma . GGOs can be divided into two categories : pure GGO ( pGGN ) and mixed/subsolid GGO ( mGGN ) . The transformation of GGO into solid nodules is a strong indicator of malignancy . Current guidelines suggest a 5-year chest computed tomography ( CT ) follow-up ( FU ) for both pure and subsolid GGOs . This study aimed to analyze the prognosis of patients undergoing major lung resection at our center in relation to the radiological characteristics of the resected nodule to assess how much the nodule density in GGO may affect the prognosis . METHODS : This retrospective observational study analyzed 133 patients underwent lobectomy at our center between 2010 and The nodule density was assessed by CT images , classifying into three groups according to the consolidation tumor ratio ( CTR ) : group 1 : pure GGO ( pGGN ; CTR <5 , n=30 ) ; group 2 : subsolid nodule ( mGGN ; 5</= CTR <1 , n=37 ) , group 3 : solid nodule ( CTR =1 , n=66 ) . Overall survival ( OS ) was calculated from the date of surgery until death or last FU . The OS was estimated through Kaplan-Meier curves , the log-rank test was used for univariate analysis , and Cox regression was used for multivariate analysis . Values with P<05 were considered statistically significant . RESULTS : Of 133 patients , the OS , 5 years after surgery and related to the nodule density , has been classified into three groups as : group 1 contained 30 patients with pure GGO nodules , with a 5-year survival rate of 96% [95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 73-99%] ; group 2 contained 37 patients with subsolid GGOs , with a 5-year survival rate of 76% ( 95% CI : 56-88% ) ; group 3 contained 66 patients with solid nodules , with a 5-year survival rate of 78% ( 95% CI : 62-88% ) with median survival time was 95 months . Multivariate analysis with age and FU lasting for over 6 months in the Cox model confirmed that density was a risk factor , with hazard ratio ( HR ) =37 ( 95% CI : 03-12 ) for group 2 vs . group 1 and HR =66 ( 95% CI : 06-90 ) for group 3 vs . group A FU exceeding 6 months after diagnosis was not a significant risk factor ( P=57 ) , whereas age was a significant risk factor ( HR =07 , 95% CI : 001-13 ) . CONCLUSIONS : For pure GGO long-term FU is justified , whereas surgery should be considered as the first option for subsolid nodules . This retrospective study provides a foundation for further research to better define the most appropriate approach to subsolid nodules .
BACKGROUND : Chronic bronchitis ( CB ) patients ' excessive mucus and airway changes may worsen viral pneumonia severity , but there is a lack of objective clinical/imaging assessment criteria . This study used quantitative computed tomography ( CT ) to link CB pathology with pneumonia severity/prognosis , guiding early interventions for high-risk groups . METHODS : This retrospective cohort study included 42 patients with CB diagnosed with viral pneumonia and 208 non-CB viral pneumonia controls . Baseline demographic , clinical , and laboratory parameters were collected alongside thoracic CT-derived metrics , including mucus plugging score ( a bronchopulmonary segment-based scoring system quantifying mucus obstruction severity ) , CT severity score ( range , 0-25 per lobe ) , and emphysema quantification . Follow-up CT imaging was performed at 3 months post-diagnosis to assess pulmonary structural remodeling , with longitudinal documentation of CT severity scores . Participants were stratified into two cohorts by mucus plugging score : high mucus burden ( >/=4 , group 1 ) and low mucus burden ( <4 , group 2 ) . Intergroup comparisons utilized Fisher ' s exact test for categorical variables , with continuous variables analyzed via independent t-tests ( normally distributed ) or Mann-Whitney U tests ( non-parametric distributions ) . Multivariate logistic regression modeling identified independent predictors of disease progression . RESULTS : This study enrolled 260 patients who were categorized into group 1 ( n=42 ; CB prevalence : 70% ) and group 2 ( n=218 ; CB prevalence : 70% ) . Comparative analysis demonstrated that CB patients in group 2 were significantly older [70 , interquartile range ( IQR ) ( 62 , 77 ) vs . 79 , IQR ( 5 , 5 ) years ; P<001] and exhibited a higher female predominance ( 4% vs . 6% ; P=03 ) , alongside lower red blood cell count ( RBC ) [73 , IQR ( 39 , 29 ) x10/L vs . 05 , IQR ( 81 , 53 ) x10/L ; P=02] and hemoglobin levels [119 , IQR ( 5 , 131 ) vs . 124 , IQR ( 5 , 136 ) g/L ; P=04] compared to non-CB counterparts . Imaging analysis revealed that non-CB patients had greater thoracic reticular patterns [02 , IQR ( 42 , 08 ) vs . 50 , IQR ( 57 , 19 ) cm ; P=02] and emphysema severity [21 , IQR ( 04 , 73 ) vs . 05 , IQR ( 01 , 19 ) cm ; P<001] , whereas CB patients across both groups showed marked bronchial wall thickening [group 1 : 60 , IQR ( 30 , 69 ) vs . 28 , IQR ( 54 , 71 ) cm , P=03 ; group 2 : 08 , IQR ( 38 , 59 ) vs . 90 , IQR ( 43 , 53 ) cm , P=01] . Notably , CB patients in group 2 displayed larger bronchial lumen volumes [63 , IQR ( 19 , 29 ) vs . 00 , IQR ( 67 , 46 ) cm ; P<001] . Multivariate analysis of the low mucus burden group identified female sex [odds ratio ( OR ) =39] , age ( OR =06 ) , and emphysema ( OR =56 ) as independent risk factors for disease progression ( all P<05 ) . Longitudinal CT follow-up indicated stable severity scores in non-CB patients , whereas high mucus-secreting CB patients ( group 1 ) demonstrated significant reductions in mucus plugging scores over time . CONCLUSIONS : CB features-mucus hypersecretion , emphysema , and airway thickening-worsen viral pneumonia severity and prognosis . Key predictors include advanced age ( OR =06 ) , female sex ( OR =39 ) , and emphysema ( OR =56 ) . High-risk CB patients , especially with emphysema , need enhanced CT monitoring and therapies improving mucociliary clearance and airway repair .
INTRODUCTION : Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent regulated cell death pathway , shares several features of Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) physiopathology , and efficient neuroprotective therapies are required to prevent DAergic neuron death initiated by ferroptosis . Electroacupuncture ( EA ) , a treasure of Traditional Chinese Medicine , exerted therapeutic effects against PD to avoid the side effects of dopamine ( DA ) -based therapies . However , its underlying mechanisms still need to be fully understood . METHODS : MPTP-induced PD mice were treated with EA to evaluate its neuroprotective effects . Behavioral assessments , histopathological analysis of DAergic neurons , and quantification of ferroptosis biomarkers-including malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) , iron , glutathione ( GSH ) , and mitochondrial integrity-were performed . Protein expression levels of SLC7A11 , GPX4 , ferritin heavy chain 1 ( FTH1 ) , and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) were analyzed via immunoblotting . To validate pathway specificity , the Nrf2 inhibitor trigonelline ( AT ) was co-administered with EA . RESULTS : EA treatment significantly mitigated MPTP-induced DAergic neuron loss and motor deficits . Mechanistically , EA suppressed ferroptosis by reducing lipid peroxidation and iron accumulation while restoring GSH levels . It upregulated ferroptosis-suppressive proteins SLC7A11 , GPX4 , FTH1 , and Nrf2 , alongside ameliorating mitochondrial dysfunction . Crucially , AT administration abolished EA ' s protective effects , confirming Nrf2 pathway dependency . DISCUSSION : These findings demonstrate that EA exerts neuroprotection in PD by inhibiting ferroptosis through activation of the Nrf2/SLC7A11/FTH1/GPX4 signaling axis . This study not only elucidates a novel mechanism underlying EA ' s efficacy in PD but also highlights ferroptosis modulation as a therapeutic strategy , bridging traditional medicine with molecular pathophysiology . This study has provided new ideas for exploring the mechanism of EA in PD treatment .
Introduction : Validation ensures data integrity , accuracy , and usability , addressing risks such as unauthorized modifications , computational errors , and security vulnerabilities . The validation process includes steps like verifying access controls , formulas , conditional formatting , and cell characteristics to align with predefined specifications . Methods : This study , conducted in the Pharmacy of the Hospital of Specialties in Rabat , focused on validating Excel files ( Excel 2013 ) used for data management to ensure compliance with good practices . The methodology involved collaborative development of a validation protocol , including steps like file identification , access level verification , formula testing , and review of hidden elements , cell characteristics , conditional formatting , and headers/footers . This systematic approach ensured data reliability , transparency , and adherence to regulatory standards . Results and discussion : Results demonstrate that the Excel system meets all validation criteria , with secured data protection , accurate calculations , and user-friendly visual cues for identifying critical stock issues . Conditional formatting enhances usability by prioritizing at-risk items , facilitating prompt action . The validated system supports reliable decision-making and operational efficiency , ensuring consistent and transparent medication management . While this approach provides numerous benefits , including enhanced reliability and compliance , challenges such as resource requirements , dependency on user expertise , and frequent updates pose limitations . Nonetheless , integrating validation principles into hospital pharmacy operations offers a pathway to optimizing digital tools for improved healthcare outcomes .
OBJECTIVE : Conditioned medium of umbilical cord mesenchymal cells is a rich environment in various growth factors and cytokines , the use of which causes self-improvement and self-renewal in damaged tissues . METHODS : Therefore , we investigated the effect of Wharton ' s umbilical cord mesenchymal cells on cytokines , growth factors expression , and skin wound healing in diabetic rats . Rats were divided into two groups of ten . In the treated diabetic group , 1 ml of conditioned medium was used intradermally , and in the diabetic control group , the same amount of physiological serum was used . The tissue samples were evaluated for histological studies . The expression level of inflammatory/anti-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors was investigated using RT-PCR and western blotting analysis . RESULTS : Our results showed that wound healing increased in the diabetic rat group with a pleasant environment compared to the control group . It was also found in molecular studies that the expression of anti-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors was significantly increased in the treated samples compared to the control group . In addition , a significant decrease in TGF-beta expression as an important inflammatory cytokine observed compared to the control group . CONCLUSIONS : The use of the conditioned environment of Wharton ' s jelly mesenchymal cells of the human umbilical cord improves the process of wound healing in terms of tissue and also increases the expression of the critical anti-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors . It can be considered a novel approach in wound healing treatment .
Stem cell therapy is a promising area of regenerative medicine , offering potential treatments for various life-threatening disorders . Stem cells are classified based on their differentiation potential into totipotent , pluripotent , and multipotent stem cells . Among them , mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) are widely used in regenerative medicine due to their tissue regeneration capabilities and ability to differentiate into multiple cell types . Stem cells are being explored for treating neurodegenerative disorders like Parkinson ' s , Alzheimer ' s , Huntington ' s , and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) . These conditions result from progressive neuronal degeneration , leading to irreversible damage . Challenges such as cell survival , immune rejection , tumor formation , and ethical concerns related to embryonic stem cells need to be addressed . Nanotechnology is emerging as a tool for enhancing stem cell therapy , improving targeted delivery and effectiveness . Nanoparticles possess the ability to create microenvironments as substrates , facilitate targeted administration , and enable real-time , precise imaging of stem cells . This review explores the integration of stem cells and nanotechnology as regenerative medicine tool for neurodegenerative disease treatment , analyzing current strategies and therapeutic approaches . Integrating nanotechnology with stem cell therapy may significantly improve targeted delivery and enhance regenerative outcomes for neurodegenerative disorders .
OBJECTIVE : This article aims to examine the safety and efficacy of switching from bictegravir/emtricitabine/tenofovir alafenamide ( B/FTC/TAF ) to dolutegravir and lamivudine ( DTG/3TC ) in the absence of prior resistance records . DESIGN : Switch to Dovato in patients suppressed on Biktarvy ( SOUND ) is an open-label , single-arm , pilot study of adult people with HIV who were virologically suppressed ( HIV-1 <50 copies/mL ) on B/FTC/TAF for >24 weeks , and switched to DTG/3TC in the absence of available resistance records . METHODS : The primary endpoint was the percentage of participants with HIV viral load ( VL ) >/=50 c/mL at week Secondary endpoints at weeks 48 and 96 included the percentage of participants with HIV-VL <50 c/mL , incidence and severity of adverse events , laboratory abnormalities , change in baseline CD4 cell count , and retrospective proviral DNA resistance testing on banked baseline samples . RESULTS : Of the 40 individuals enrolled , 0% had VL >/=50 c/mL at week No participants discontinued due to laboratory abnormalities or safety-related concerns . Three participants withdrew from the study while virologically suppressed . Among the 32 baseline samples available for retrospective proviral DNA resistance testing , six ( 19% ) had nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor resistance-associated mutations ( RAMs ) , all with M184V . Two ( 6% ) participants had integrase strand transfer inhibitor RAMs at baseline ( S147S/G and Q148Q/R ) ; neither conferred resistance to DTG . Nonnucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor and protease inhibitor RAMs were observed in eight ( 25% ) and three ( 9% ) participants , respectively . A significant decrease in weight was observed over the study period . CONCLUSIONS : Results from SOUND support the efficacy and safety of switching to DTG/3TC for people living with HIV-1 who are virologically suppressed on B/FTC/TAF with unknown resistance history and may confer a weight advantage .
Keratoacanthomas are rapidly growing , benign cutaneous neoplasms that can mimic squamous cell carcinoma , presenting diagnostic and management challenges for physicians . The case report investigates a 63-year-old African American female who presented to a family medicine clinic with a one-year history of a progressively enlarging nodule on her right shin . Clinical examination revealed a seven-millimeter dome-shaped , hyperpigmented , well-defined , scaly , rough papule with central umbilication and a keratin plug . Histopathological analysis of an excisional biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of keratoacanthoma with clear margins . Due to the significant overlay in gross appearance and dermoscopic features of keratoacanthomas and malignant squamous cell carcinomas , it is imperative to fully excise similarly presenting lesions and send them for microscopic analysis . Even with histologic examination , keratoacanthomas and squamous cell carcinomas can be challenging to differentiate . Therefore , the priority of contemporary research lies in new methods of distinguishing the two conditions so that the self-limited , benign keratoacanthoma can be managed more conservatively , avoiding invasive removal and associated morbidity . This scholarship is especially pertinent to patients , like the one in this case study , with skin of color who are more likely to experience post-operative complications such as proinflammatory hyperpigmentation , hypertrophic scars , and keloids , but are also at risk of squamous cell carcinoma .
This study aimed to analyze the literature published about small-cell lung cancer ( SCLC ) in geriatric populations on a global scale from 1979 to This bibliometric analysis was performed by gathering data from the Web of Science Core Data Collection , using keywords such as small-cell lung cancer , SCLC , extensive-stage SCLC ( ES-SCLC ) , and oat cell cancer . The search was further refined to target an older adult population by incorporating keywords such as 65+ years of age , geriatric patients , and baby boomers . These articles were then analyzed using VOSviewer . Maps were generated using sorting methods , focusing specifically on organizations , countries , and keywords . More than 7 , 710 articles spanning from 1979 to 2023 were analyzed . The United States , the People ' s Republic of China , and Japan produced the most publications on small-cell lung cancer in geriatric patients . When analyzing keywords used in studies on small-cell lung cancer in geriatric patients , many were related to the treatment and therapy of the disease . This bibliometric analysis shows that as time progresses , the focus of the United States , the People ' s Republic of China , and Japan is to increase research on therapeutics and treatments to help remedy small-cell lung cancer in order to decrease fatal lung cancer diagnoses in geriatric patients . If these countries continue their research efforts as before , more advancements in treatment can be made to ultimately find a cure for small-cell lung cancer , particularly impacting geriatric populations .
Immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) , such as pembrolizumab , have revolutionized cancer treatment but are associated with immune-related adverse events ( irAEs ) . Hypophysitis , though rare , is a serious endocrine complication that can lead to life-threatening adrenal insufficiency if not promptly recognized and treated . A 62-year-old man with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer presented with fatigue , headache , and hyponatremia after four cycles of pembrolizumab . Laboratory evaluation revealed secondary adrenal insufficiency ( low cortisol and adrenocorticotropic hormone ) and central hypothyroidism ( low free thyroxine , T4 , with inappropriately normal thyroid-stimulating hormone ) . Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed a normal pituitary gland . A diagnosis of pembrolizumab-induced hypophysitis was made based on clinical and biochemical findings . Pembrolizumab was temporarily withheld , and the patient was started on hydrocortisone and levothyroxine replacement . Symptoms improved within one week , and pembrolizumab was resumed without complications . This case highlights the importance of monitoring for endocrine irAEs in patients receiving ICIs , even without radiographic abnormalities . Early recognition and treatment are critical to reduce morbidity . Clinicians should suspect hypophysitis in patients presenting with nonspecific symptoms such as fatigue , headache , or hyponatremia during ICI therapy .
This case report presents a 53-year-old male patient complaining of left-sided testicular pain . Upon scrotal ultrasound , the presence of a paratesticular tumor was determined . Upon further surgical exploration and tissue examination , the lesion was determined to be a myxoid spindle cell neoplasm with angiomyxoma features . This case report analyzes this benign lesion and provides an appropriate treatment plan , including surgery and imaging for follow-up . Paratesticular tumors are rare findings , and there is a lack of research on optimal treatment plans for these rare cases . The case report adds to the literature by increasing our understanding of this rare testicular tumor and providing an appropriate treatment plan to consider and utilize when treating these rare cases .
Palmar bursitis and tenosynovitis of the flexor tendon sheath around the wrist is a rare manifestation of musculoskeletal tuberculosis . It has an indolent course and diagnosis is often delayed especially when it is an isolated finding . Timely diagnosis can prevent complications like bony involvement , tendon rupture and neuropathy . Here , we report a case of a 42-year-old male patient who presented with gradually progressive painful swelling of the left palm , wrist and distal forearm . Ultrasound and MRI revealed synovial thickening and distension of the palmar bursae and flexor tendon sheath with fluid and rice bodies . Open excisional biopsy was done , and thickened synovium and rice bodies were removed . Histopathology showed epithelioid granulomas with Langhans type giant cells and caseation necrosis . Anti-tubercular therapy was administered , and on follow-up , there was no recurrence of symptoms .
Introduction This study aimed to compare autophagic activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) between intensive care unit-acquired weakness ( ICU-AW ) and non-ICU-AW patients , and to evaluate phase-specific differences and their associations with immune and inflammatory profiles . Methods This single-center , cross-sectional observational study included 42 patients who required mechanical ventilation for more than 48 hours between April 2020 and March PBMCs were collected within 48 hours of ICU admission ( early phase ) and on day 7 ( late phase ) . Autophagic activity , assessed by mean fluorescence intensity ( MFI ) , was evaluated via flow cytometry using DAPGreen ( Dojindo , Kumamoto , Japan ) . ICU-AW was diagnosed based on a Medical Research Council sum score of less than 48 points . Results Among the 42 patients , 14 ( 3% ) developed ICU-AW . PBMCs from ICU-AW patients demonstrated significantly lower autophagic activity in the early phase compared to non-ICU-AW patients ( non-ICU-AW vs . ICU-AW patients : MFI of granulocytes , 9 ( 6 , 7 ) vs . 4 ( 0 , 6 ) , p < 001 ; and lymphocytes , 6 ( 9 , 0 ) vs . 2 ( 0 , 5 ) , p = 011 ) . In contrast , excessive autophagic activity was observed in some ICU-AW cases during the late phase ( MFI of granulocytes , 0 ( 9 , 9 ) vs . 8 ( 9 , 0 ) , p < 001 ; and lymphocytes , 5 ( 4 , 5 ) vs . 2 ( 6 , 5 ) , p = 012 ) . The proportion of monocytes was also significantly reduced in the ICU-AW group . These findings suggest that impaired early-phase autophagy may contribute to ICU-AW pathogenesis , whereas delayed overactivation could be associated with persistent inflammation and impaired muscle recovery . Conclusion Autophagic activity in PBMCs exhibited temporal alterations in patients with ICU-AW . These findings suggest a potential association between dysregulated autophagy and muscle dysfunction in critically ill patients . Further research is needed to explore whether modulation of autophagy could inform future preventive strategies .
Adult-onset asthma with periocular xanthogranuloma ( AAPOX ) is a rare orbital xanthogranulomatous disease characterized by periocular yellow to orange cutaneous papules and nodules , usually associated with lymphadenopathy and adult-onset asthma . Immunoglobulin G4-related disease ( IgG4-RD ) is a systemic , immune-mediated condition of unknown etiology characterized by distinct histopathological features . Here , we report the rare case of a 57-year-old asthmatic woman who developed AAPOX concurrently with IgG4-RD , showing a favorable response to rituximab , along with a review of current literature . She presented with bilateral periorbital violaceous nodules and bilateral parotid swellings that had been present for the past seven years . Histopathological examination of the lower eyelid revealed Touton giant cells and foamy histiocytes , consistent with xanthogranuloma , while a biopsy from the left parotid swelling demonstrated features suggestive of IgG4-RD . A literature review using the keywords " IgG4RD " , " AAPOX " , " co-existence " , and " association " identified 11 articles describing 17 cases with overlapping features . There was a male predominance , with a mean age of presentation of 49 years . Common ophthalmological findings included bilateral periorbital swelling with xanthelasma-like lesions . Systemic manifestations included asthma , involvement of the lacrimal and parotid glands , lymphadenopathy , and pancreatitis . Treatment with prednisone and rituximab proved effective in most reported cases . It remains uncertain whether these two entities represent a spectrum of a single disease or a nonspecific immunological overlap .
Knee osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a degenerative joint disorder with limited non-surgical treatment options . Adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cell ( AD-MSC ) therapy has emerged as a promising regenerative approach ; however , the comparative efficacy and safety of autologous versus allogeneic AD-MSCs remain unclear . This systematic review and network meta-analysis ( NMA ) evaluated the effectiveness and safety of intra-articular AD-MSCs in adults with Kellgren-Lawrence Grade II-IV knee OA . A comprehensive search identified eight randomized controlled trials that compared high-dose autologous , high-dose allogeneic , and low-dose allogeneic AD-MSCs to placebo or standard care interventions , such as hyaluronic acid , corticosteroids , or physical therapy . The primary outcomes were pain relief , assessed by the Visual Analog Scale ( VAS ) , and functional improvement , measured by the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index ( WOMAC ) , at three , six , and 12 months . Treatment rankings were determined using Surface Under the Cumulative Ranking ( SUCRA ) probabilities . High-dose autologous AD-MSCs ranked highest for pain relief at three , six , and 12 months ( VAS SUCRA : 99% , 27% , 65% ) , while high-dose allogeneic AD-MSCs ranked highest for functional improvement at six and 12 months ( WOMAC SUCRA : 6% , 71% ) . Low-dose allogeneic AD-MSCs consistently ranked lowest for both outcomes . Adverse event analysis indicated that low-dose allogeneic AD-MSCs had the highest risk of adverse effects ( SUCRA : 24% ) , followed by high-dose allogeneic AD-MSCs ( 52% ) . In contrast , high-dose autologous AD-MSCs ranked safer ( SUCRA : 08% ) . Serious adverse events were rare and unrelated to treatment , and consistency testing confirmed no significant inconsistencies in the NMA framework . Overall , high-dose autologous AD-MSCs provided sustained pain relief over 12 months , while high-dose allogeneic AD-MSCs demonstrated superior long-term functional improvement . These findings support a two-phase treatment model in which autologous AD-MSCs offer early and prolonged symptom relief , and allogeneic AD-MSCs assist in long-term joint recovery . Overall , AD-MSC therapy was well tolerated and may represent a viable , personalized , non-surgical knee OA management strategy .
Pernicious anemia is an autoimmune disease characterized by vitamin B12 deficiency due to antibodies that target intrinsic factor and/or parietal cells in the stomach . Hemolytic anemia is rarely seen in vitamin B12 deficiency . This case report highlights a patient with a history of autoimmune thyroid disease who presented with severe hemolytic anemia and vitamin B12 deficiency from pernicious anemia . This report discusses the association of hemolytic anemia with vitamin B12 deficiency , the association of pernicious anemia with other autoimmune diseases , and the treatment of pernicious anemia .
Fine-needle aspiration cytology of the thyroid gland has been widely used for the initial diagnosis of suspected malignant thyroid nodules and definitive preoperative diagnosis of recurrent and metastatic thyroid cancer . Metastases to the thyroid most commonly arise from tumors in the lungs , kidneys , breasts , and skin . Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma can also be observed in the thyroid , but it is relatively rare . Here , we report a case of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma metastatic to the thyroid that was diagnosed using fine-needle aspiration cytology , relying on cytomorphological characteristics , immunohistochemical features , and other clinical clues .
Neuroendocrine tumors ( NETs ) are heterogeneous neoplasms that arise from neuroendocrine cells , resulting in endocrine imbalances that impact quality of life and prognosis . Ectopic adrenocorticotropic hormone ( ACTH ) production by NETs is a rare cause of ACTH-dependent Cushing ' s syndrome . While the majority of these cases are associated with intrathoracic tumors , recent reports have indicated an increasing incidence of cases originating from diverse anatomical sites . Furthermore , despite comprehensive imaging efforts , a substantial proportion of cases remain challenging to localize . In this case , we describe a 54-year-old man with a stage IV NET with metastatic liver and pancreatic lesions , who presented with Cushing ' s syndrome due to ectopic ACTH production . The patient exhibited symptoms of severe hypercortisolism , including weight gain , proximal muscle weakness , acute-onset heart failure , and hypertension . Imaging revealed bilateral adrenal hypertrophy . Laboratory tests revealed hypokalemia and hyperglycemia and confirmed elevated cortisol levels and a lack of suppression after dexamethasone administration , consistent with ectopic rather than pituitary ACTH production . The patient was treated with metyrapone because ketoconazole was contraindicated because of liver metastasis and recent upper gastrointestinal bleeding requiring proton pump inhibitor use . This case highlights the rare occurrence of ACTH-producing NETs and emphasizes the importance of considering this diagnosis in cases with similar presentations . Furthermore , medical management of this patient without surgical intervention , owing to multiple contraindications , offers an important perspective for treating complex cases .
Background Peripheral vascular disease ( PVD ) encompasses both upper and lower limb diseases affecting veins and arteries . This study focuses on peripheral arterial disease ( PAD ) due to its higher morbidity and mortality rates related to cardiovascular deaths . Research is crucial to assess the prevalence , risk factors , and burden of PVD in the Indian population . There is a significant lack of data on PVD in the northeastern region of India ; therefore , this study aims to examine the risk factors for PVD in patients attending a tertiary care hospital in Northeast India . Methods This hospital-based case-control study , conducted in both retrospective and prospective modes , aimed to identify risk factors in patients with PVD . The study was carried out in a tertiary care teaching hospital in Northeast India from January 2015 to January The cases were patients with PVD ( Group A ) , and the controls were healthy volunteers without PVD ( Group B ) . The study extended over a period of 10 years ( January 2015-January 2025 ) and included retrospective data ( January 2015-October 2020 ) from hospital records and prospective data ( October 2020-January 2025 ) from a questionnaire survey and follow-ups , analysing disease progression and treatment outcomes . Using a structured proforma , data were collected on sociodemographic details , symptoms , co-morbidities , substance misuse , and other relevant factors . The data was analyzed using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows , Version 0 ( Released 2015 ; IBM Corp . , Armonk , New York , United States ) . Results A total of 172 cases and 688 controls , in a 1 : 4 ratio , participated in the study . Hypertension , diabetes mellitus , smoking history , and cardiac ailments were significantly higher among cases than controls ( p<05 ) . Among smokers , the number of cigarettes per day and smoking duration were significantly associated with peripheral vascular disease . When smoking was combined with diabetes mellitus and hypertension , the risk of developing peripheral vascular disease increased significantly . Atherosclerosis below the aortic bifurcation was found in 104 patients ( 47% ) , making it the most common vascular pathology , followed by thromboangiitis obliterans in 63 patients ( 63% ) . Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified male gender ( OR : 27 , 95%CI : 019 to 231 , p=01 ) , smoking history ( OR : 91 , 95%CI : 638 to 972 , p=001 ) , number of cigarettes smoked per day ( OR : 64 , 95%CI : 473 to 816 , p=002 ) , diabetes mellitus ( OR : 68 , 95%CI : 488 to 368 , p=000 ) , and hypertension ( OR : 17 , 95%CI : 798 to 131 , p=000 ) as independent risk factors for peripheral vascular disease . Amputation was the most common treatment offered , followed by rehabilitation . Bone marrow cell therapy was attempted in 21 patients , avoiding amputation in Conclusion This result demonstrates smoking , diabetes mellitus , and hypertension as region-specific independent risk factors for PVD in Northeast India . These findings focus on the importance of reducing risk factors in patients with diabetes for the prevention of PVD .
Elevated plasma triacylglycerol ( TAG ) levels are associated with endothelial dysfunction , inflammation , and increased vascular complications , particularly in populations such as individuals with sickle cell disease ( SCD ) . This study aimed to investigate the effect of a single exercise session on postprandial TAG levels in children with SCD following the consumption of a high-fat meal . The high-fat meal was used to induce a significant postprandial increase in plasma triayglecrol ( TAG ) levels , aknown risk factor for endothelial dysfunction and vascular implication , particualry in population with Sickle Cell Disease ( SCD ) . Twelve male children with SCD ( mean age : 5 +/- 2 years ) participated in two 2-day trials , one involving brisk walking ( exercise trial ) and one with rest ( rest trial ) , in a randomized , counter-balanced design . A mixed high-fat test meal ( 97 g fat , 124 g carbohydrate , 1 , 450 kcal ) was administered after a 10-h overnight fast , and blood samples were collected at baseline , 60 , 120 , 240 , 300 , and 360 min post-meal to measure serum TAG , glucose , insulin , and total cholesterol concentrations . Postprandial TAG levels significantly increased in both trials , but the exercise trial showed a significantly lower TAG response compared to the rest trial ( P < 05 ) . The area under the curve ( AUC ) for TAG was greater in the rest trial than in the exercise trial ( P < 05 ) . Specifically , TAG concentrations were significantly lower in the exercise trial at 120 and 180 min post-meal ( P < 05 ) , indicating faster clearance of TAG following exercise . Insulin and glucose concentrations also increased post-meal , with significantly lower insulin and glucose AUC values in the exercise trial compared to the rest trial ( P < 05 ) . No significant differences were observed in total cholesterol between the two trials at 360 min post-meal . These findings suggest that a single bout of exercise prior to a high-fat meal reduces postprandial TAG concentrations in children with SCD , consistent with previous studies in healthy populations . The reduction in postprandial TAG may have implications for improving endothelial function and reducing the risk of cardiovascular and vaso-occlusive events in individuals with SCD . Further studies are needed to explore the long-term effects of regular exercise on lipid metabolism and disease complications in this population .
Osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a prevalent degenerative joint disease characterized by the progressive breakdown of cartilage , leading to pain , inflammation , and reduced joint function . There are many variations of conventional therapies that exist , however , none proven to halt or reverse cartilage degradation . Chitosan , a biocompatible and biodegradable polysaccharide , has emerged as a promising candidate in OA treatment due to its chondroprotective properties , and ability to enhance chondrocyte proliferation and suppress inflammatory mediators . Recent advancements in nanotechnology have led to the development of chitosan nanoparticles ( NPs ) , which offer a novel and effective approach for addressing the limitations associated with standard chitosan formulations , such as poor solubility and limited tissue penetration . Chitosan NPs have demonstrated superior bioavailability , sustained drug release , and targeted delivery , leading to improved therapeutic outcomes in preclinical models . This review explores evidence-based the therapeutic potential of chitosan NPs in the management of knee osteoarthritis , focusing on their role in cartilage regeneration and drug delivery .
PURPOSE : Plant-derived nanovesicles ( PDNVs ) are promising candidates for next-generation drug delivery system due to their scalability , low cytotoxicity and immunogenicity , and efficient cellular uptake . Here , tomato fruit-derived PDNVs were loaded with tolvaptan , a vasopressin V2-receptor antagonist with the aim to reduce drug cytotoxicity , control drug release and to improve drug efficiency in vitro . METHODS : Tolvaptan was encapsulated by extrusion and electroporation . Entrapment efficiency ( EE% ) and drug loading capacity ( DLC% ) were optimized by changing the drug-to-PDNV ratio and time-dependent drug release rate was evaluated at two different pH . Tolvaptan-loaded PDNVs were characterized using physiochemical and morphological methods . Cellular uptake of fluorescently labelled tolvaptan-loaded PDNVs was evaluated . The cytotoxicity and effects of tolvaptan-loaded PDNVs on cyst formation and cell migration were studied in different renal cell cultures . RESULTS : Electroporation resulted in higher EE% and DLC% than extrusion for the encapsulation of tolvaptan into PDNVs . MDCK cells efficiently uptake tolvaptan-loaded PDNVs . The release of the tolvaptan was time and pH dependent . Enhanced cell proliferation , suppressed cyst growth , and altered cyst morphology compared with controls was observed . Migration assay demonstrated that tolvaptan-encapsulated PDNVs had a favourable effect on enhancing wound healing and cell migration in renal cells . CONCLUSION : Tolvaptan-loaded PDNVs show promising features as a natural next-generation nanoscale delivery system in vitro for time and pH-dependent release of hydrophobic drugs , such as tolvaptan .
Acute kidney injury ( AKI ) has a high morbidity and mortality rate but can only be treated with supportive therapy in most cases . The diagnosis of AKI is mainly based on serum creatinine level and urine volume , which cannot detect kidney injury sensitive and timely . Therefore , new diagnostic and therapeutic molecules of AKI are being actively explored . Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) , secreted by almost all cells , can originate from different parts of the kidney and mediate intercellular communication between various cell types of nephrons . At present , numerous successful EV-based biomarker discoveries and treatments for AKI have been made , such as the confirmed diagnostic role of urine-derived EVs in AKI and the established therapeutic role of mesenchymal stem cell-derived EVs in AKI have been confirmed ; however , these related studies lack a full discussion . In this review , we summarize the latest progression in the profound understanding of the functional role of EVs in AKI caused by various etiologies in recent years and provide new insights into EVs as viable biomarkers and therapeutic molecules for AKI patients . Furthermore , the current challenges and prospects of this research area are briefly discussed , presenting a comprehensive overview of the growing foregrounds of EVs in AKI .
White matter in the central nervous system comprises bundled nerve fibers myelinated by oligodendrocytes . White matter injury , characterized by the loss of oligodendrocytes and myelin , is common after ischemic brain injury , inflammatory demyelinating diseases including multiple sclerosis , and traumatic damage such as spinal cord injury . Currently , no therapies have been confirmed to promote remyelination in these diseases . Over the past decade , various reports have suggested that the anti-muscarinic drug clemastine can stimulate remyelination by oligodendrocytes . Consequently , the repurposing of clemastine as a potential treatment for a variety of neurological disorders has gained significant attention . The therapeutic effects of clemastine have been demonstrated in various animal models , and its mechanisms of action in various neurological disorders are currently being investigated . In this review , we summarize reports relating to clemastine administration for white matter injury and neurological disease and discuss the therapeutic potential of remyelination promotion .
Erythropoietin ( EPO ) is a glycoprotein hormone predominantly produced in the kidneys , primarily stimulating erythroid cell proliferation in the bone marrow . The present study investigated the impact of EPO combined with swimming exercise on cardiac morphometry in adolescent male and female rats . The 4-week study involved 48 rats ( 24 males and 24 females ) , which were divided into four main groups of six males and six females each . The control group was administered intraperitoneal saline four times a week . The swimming exercise group also received intraperitoneal saline , followed by 30 min of swimming exercise , four times a week . The drug control group was given 00 IU kg ( -1 ) epoetin alfa intraperitoneally , four times a week . Lastly , the Swimming + Drug group received 00 IU kg ( -1 ) epoetin alfa intraperitoneally , four times a week , followed by 30 min of swimming exercise . The post-study measurements demonstrated that EPO administration did not result in notable alterations in crucial parameters , including the left ventricular mass index , left ventricular mass , and left ventricular posterior wall in the context of left ventricular hypertrophy in both genders . However , in female rats , EPO-only group and the combined EPO and exercise group showed significant thinning of the right ventricular wall and interventricular septum indicating potential cardiac dilatation . The results highlight the necessity of considering gender-specific responses when evaluating EPO ' s cardiovascular effects , particularly concerning the right ventricle , and suggest further investigation into the long-term consequences of these observed changes .
Mpox virus ( MPXV ) , a re-emerging zoonotic threat , has caused outbreaks in non-endemic regions through respiratory , sexual , and close-contact transmission . The increased transmissibility of Clade IIb fueled the 2022 global outbreak , with 2024 Clade Ib spread in the Democratic Republic of Congo further escalating concern . Both outbreaks were declared public health emergencies by the WHO . Although tecovirimat ( TPOXX ) has been used off-label for Mpox , its limited effectiveness highlights the critical need for newer antivirals for MPXV . We conducted high- throughput antiviral drug screening using a host-directed kinase inhibitor library composed of 2 , 750 compounds against 2022 Clade IIb MPXV . Our primary screen identified 138 compounds preventing MPXV cytopathic effects , including multiple inhibitors of EGFR , PI3K-mTOR , and Ras/Raf , as well as apoptosis and autophagy regulators . Secondary and tertiary screenings yielded a shortlist of potent , nontoxic antiviral compounds that inhibited MPXV replication . Three selected compounds , IRAK4-IN-6 , SM-7368 , and KRAS inhibitor-10 , reduced MPXV-induced cell death in primary human epidermal keratinocytes . IRAK4-IN-6 and SM-7368 were also found to modulate NF-kappaB and STING signaling . Furthermore , these compounds were found effective in reducing skin lesions and viral burden in a mouse model of MPXV skin infection . Together , our study reveals new classes of antiviral compounds against MPXV , offering promising candidates for future clinical development . FAU - Jeyachandran , Arjit Vijey
Currently , intensive chemotherapy with cytarabine and anthracycline ( the " 7 + 3 " regimen ) and hypomethylating agents remains the standard treatment for patients with acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . Despite advances in treatment such as targeted therapies , patient outcomes remain unsatisfactory due to adverse drug reactions , susceptibility to drug resistance , and high recurrence rates . Consequently , there is an urgent need to develop safer and more efficacious treatments for AML . In this study , we examined the effects of 20 ( S ) -protopanaxadiol ( 20 ( S ) -PPD ) on AML cells . Our findings indicate that 20 ( S ) -PPD inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in AML cells . Mechanistically , 20 ( S ) -PPD-induced apoptosis was at least partially dependent on the anti-apoptotic proteins MCL-1 and Bcl-X ( L ) . Moreover , the downregulation of MCL-1 and Bcl-X ( L ) by 20 ( S ) -PPD is mediated through the inhibition of transcription and a decrease in protein stability . Additionally , results from virtual molecular docking demonstrated that 20 ( S ) -PPD exhibits lower binding energies with MCL-1 and Bcl-X ( L ) ( -58 and -75 kcal/mol , respectively ) , suggesting that 20 ( S ) -PPD may directly interact with these proteins , thereby accelerating their degradation . Finally , 20 ( S ) -PPD has been shown to synergistically enhance the anti-leukemic activity of venetoclax , a selective Bcl-2 inhibitor , in AML cells . The current study suggests that the continued development of 20 ( S ) -PPD as a therapeutic agent for AML would be advantageous .
Viruses play a crucial role in microbial communities and can significantly influence ecosystem processes and biogeochemical cycles by regulating the structure of these communities and the metabolic functions of their hosts . Salt lakes are recognized for harboring a diverse array of halotolerant microorganisms ; however , there is limited knowledge regarding the viruses and their co-occurring hosts in these halotolerant environments . Herein , 3 , 362 viral operational taxonomic units ( vOTUs ) were recovered from Yuncheng Salt Lake soils by combining with a binning method , with less than 2% showing homology to known viruses , highlighting a significant unexplored viral diversity . Virus communities were typically specific to their habitats , exhibiting low overlap across various geographical regions and other ecological environments . It was predicted that 4% of viruses were associated with microbial host populations , and the majority of the predicted vOTUs are linked to dominant bacteria and archaea . Metabolic predictions revealed that 568 putative auxiliary metabolic genes ( AMGs ) were involved in various processes related to biosynthesis and transformation reactions associated with resource utilization within host cells . The virus-encoded AMGs indicated that these viruses influenced the metabolism of carbon , nitrogen , sulfur , and phosphorus in microorganisms , as well as their adaptation to salinity . This study highlighted the unique characteristics and potential ecological roles of soil viruses in Yuncheng Salt Lake , suggesting that these viruses may significantly influence microbial communities and the biogeochemistry of salt lake soils . These findings provide valuable insights into the diversity , function , and ecology of viruses in soils surrounding salt lakes , establishing a foundation for understanding their roles in these unique ecosystems .
OBJECTIVES : To elucidate the molecular epidemiology of tigecycline and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae isolates and mechanisms of tigecycline resistance . METHODS : We gathered 31 unduplicated strains of tigecycline-resistant Enterobacteriaceae from six hospitals nationwide . Antimicrobial susceptibility testing , phenotypic detection , and PCR identification were performed first , followed by homology analysis using MLST and PFGE . Conjugation transfer experiments using resistance gene plasmids were carried out , and the conjugates ' growth curves were examined . All strains were sequenced using the Illumina HiSeq technology , and we identified a strain KP28 carrying a complete gene cluster tmexCD2-toprJ Then , its plasmid was further constructed using the PacBio platforms to complete the frame . The genetic connection of the tmexCD2-toprJ2 gene cluster carried by KP28 was established using core genome analyses . RESULTS : All 31 tigecycline-resistant Enterobacteriaceae strains ( TG-CRE ) were multidrug resistant . PFGE classified strains of CRKP , CRECL , and CRKAE into 16 distinct spectra , 6 distinct spectra , and 3 distinct spectra . MLST results showed a high concentration of ST11 in CRKP strains and a predominance of ST116 in CRECL strains , suggesting possible clonal transmission or selective dominance . The findings of the plasmid conjugation assay revealed that three strains expressing carbapenem resistance genes were effectively transmitted to the recipient cell E . coli EC WGS data revealed that these 31 strains include 79 resistance genes , with one strain ( KP28 ) carrying the whole tigecycline resistance gene cluster , tmexC2D2-toprJ This resistance gene is contained in a large IncHI5 plasmid , which is difficult to transfer . CONCLUSION : The overall carriage rate of the tmexC2D2-toprJ2 gene cluster was found to be low among the five Chinese hospitals investigated . Conversely , tet ( A ) mutations were present in most of the strains . Bacteria with the carbapenem resistance genes bla ( KPC ) and bla ( NDM ) are vulnerable to horizontal transmission . Increasing the risk of transmission of antibiotic-resistant genes .
Phages , which play a crucial role in regulating bacterial populations and evolution , have gained renewed attention as potential therapeutic agents especially in the face of rising antimicrobial resistance , such as in Klebsiella pneumoniae- a MDR pathogen with significant clinical implications for immunocompromised individuals . In this milieu , the present investigation aimed at evaluating the therapeutic potential of two lytic phages , KPKp ( jumbo phage ) and KSKp , as potential candidates for phage treatment . Initial purification and TEM characterization revealed their family as Ackermannviridae ( KPKp ) and Straboviridae ( KSKp ) . The one-step growth curve analysis divulged that KPKp and KSKp exhibit burst sizes of ~98 and ~121 and latency periods of 8 and 12 min , respectively . Genomic analysis unveiled linear double-stranded DNA as their genome with sizes 206 , 819 bp ( KPKp ) and 167 , 101 bp ( KSKp ) lacking virulence or lysogenic genes , signifying their therapeutic suitability . Evaluation of phages as a cocktail demonstrated a substantial improvement in lytic ability , achieving complete ( 100% ) lysis ( at MOI 1 ) of clinical isolates compared to individual phages , achieving 50 and 25% lysis at MOI In vitro investigations demonstrated that the phage cocktail significantly decreased both planktonic and sessile cells . Additionally , the phage ( cocktail ) -antibiotic synergism ( PAS ) achieves over 90% inhibition of K . pneumoniae , even at sub-lethal antibiotic doses . PAS treatment significantly prolongs the lifespan of K . pneumoniae-infected Galleria mellonella . Compared to cocktail phage therapy , PAS demonstrates a superior reduction in bacterial load . In conclusion , the combination of phages and antibiotic holds potential for addressing clinical challenges associated with MDR K . pneumoniae infection .
INTRODUCTION : The misuse of antibiotics threatens animal health and food safety and limits the development of livestock and poultry farming . In animal husbandry , probiotics can be used as an alternative to antibiotics because of their environmental protection and high efficiency . Parabacteroides goldsteinii ( PG ) has positive anti-inflammatory effects in mice ; however , its role in other animals remains unknown . METHODS : The results showed that cell viability with the PG supernatant was highest at a 20-fold dilution ratio . Exposure of IPEC-J2 cells to LPS ( 1 mug/mL ) significantly increased IL-6 and IL-8 concentrations , which triggered an inflammatory response . PG attenuated the LPS-induced inflammatory response by inhibiting the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( IL-6 ) and promoting the release of anti-inflammatory cytokines ( IL-10 ) . Transcriptome analysis showed that the average number of clean reads in the LPS and LPS-PG groups was 39 , 311 , 061 and 38 , 085 , 237 , respectively . In total , 2 , 126 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified between the LPS and LPS-PG groups , including 36 up-regulated and 2090 down-regulated genes . Some DEGs , such as IL-6R and NF-small ka , CyrillicB , are related to inflammation . GO analysis was used to annotate the functions of the DEGs , and the results showed that biological regulation , cellular anatomical entity , and binding were dominant . KEGG enrichment analysis showed that the DEGs were significantly enriched in the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway , protein export pathway , and antigen processing and presentation pathway . DISCUSSION : These results indicate that P . goldsteinii is a promising probiotic for maintaining and improving intestinal health in piglets .
OBJECTIVE : As walking ability and balance deteriorate with age for bipedal humans , ambulating independently becomes cumbersome without using walking aids . However , age-related risk factors for loss of independent walking ability are not well characterized . We aimed to analyze the clinically relevant factors for ambulatory device aid from the perspectives of nutrition , body composition , and postural abnormalities between independent and assisted walkers based on their ambulatory status . METHODS : Among the 3640 patients aged >/=65 years initially enrolled in the study , 1557 patients with a history of fragility fractures were excluded . Patients were categorized into those who could walk independently and those who required assistance . Body composition , including skeletal muscle mass index , whole-spine sagittal alignment , and blood biochemical findings , were compared . RESULTS : Among the 2083 participants , 1323 and 760 were included in the independent and assisted groups , respectively . The logistic regression analysis identified five significant factors ( P < 01 ) : age , body mass index , red blood cell distribution width , skeletal muscle mass index , and sagittal vertical axis . The receiver operating characteristic analysis determined the threshold for assisted walking to be age 0 years , red blood cell distribution width of 0% , skeletal muscle mass index of 96 kg/m , and a sagittal vertical axis of 64 mm with areas under the curve of 727 , 677 , 645 , and 708 , respectively . Combining these four factors as propensity scores revealed an area under the curve of CONCLUSION : The comparison of independent and assisted walkers among older adults revealed the importance of age , red blood cell distribution width , skeletal muscle mass , and spinal sagittal balance as clinical factors of assisted walkers .
BACKGROUND : Foreign body granuloma ( FBG ) formation is linked to chronic persistent cutaneous inflammation , representing a severe delayed complication characterized histologically by infiltration of multinucleated giant cells and aggregation of lymphocytes . In filler-induced FBG following cosmetic injections , implanted materials represent a key driver of sustained inflammatory responses . Achieving complete resolution remains challenging , with current therapeutic outcomes for FBG being suboptimal . Emerging evidence suggests that Janus kinase ( JAK ) inhibitors may constitute a promising therapeutic strategy for refractory granulomatous conditions . OBJECTIVE : This case report describes the successful management of FBG using JAK inhibitors and synthesizes existing literature to evaluate the efficacy , safety , and potential mechanisms of abrocitinib in treating filler-induced cutaneous FBG . METHODS : We present a case of post-filler FBG that presents with multiple smooth-surfaced , hemispherical lesions ( 3-5 mm in diameter ) distributed across the entire facial region . The patient was treated with oral abrocitinib ( 100 mg daily ) and prednisone ( 30 mg daily , tapered over 9 weeks ) . Clinical outcomes were assessed weekly for 13 weeks through serial clinical photography , dermoscopy , reflectance confocal microscopy , and multispectral imaging . Adverse events , including rash exacerbation , vomiting , dizziness , and fever , were systematically monitored . A comprehensive literature review was conducted to elucidate JAK inhibitors ' therapeutic rationale in filler-associated FBG . RESULTS : The patient achieved complete granuloma resolution within 13 weeks following failed corticosteroid monotherapy . No treatment-related adverse effects were observed during the one-month follow-up period , supporting the favorable safety profile of this therapeutic approach . CONCLUSION : This report provides preliminary evidence for JAK inhibitors ' efficacy in managing refractory filler-induced FBG . Large-scale controlled trials are warranted to validate long-term safety and therapeutic benefits .
OBJECTIVE : To develop and validate predictive models assessing survival outcomes in patients with non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) treated with microwave ablation ( MWA ) , enabling clinical decision support and personalized care . METHODS : This retrospective study analyzed data from 181 NSCLC patients who underwent MWA between May 2013 and May Prognostic factors were identified through univariate analysis , and predictive models were constructed using machine learning techniques . The model validation was conducted using cross-validation to ensure the model ' s robustness and generalizability . RESULTS : Univariate analysis revealed several significant prognostic factors , including tumor stage , serum phosphorus levels , patient age , average hemoglobin levels , ground-glass opacities ( GGO ) , and pleural traction . The presence of GGO and pleural traction was associated with worse prognosis , and these factors were incorporated into the model . After training , the best-performing model achieved an area under the curve ( AUC ) of 742 , demonstrating a good balance between sensitivity and specificity . Cross-validation and external validation further confirmed the robustness and generalizability of the model , with similar AUC values observed in both validation cohorts . The model effectively predicted the 1- , 3- , and 5-year survival rates for NSCLC patients treated with MWA . These findings suggest that the model can serve as a reliable tool for clinical decision-making and support individualized treatment strategies . CONCLUSION : The developed predictive model effectively assesses prognosis in NSCLC patients treated with MWA , supporting individualized treatment strategies and improving clinical decision-making .
Spindle Pole Body Component 25 ( SPC25 ) , a critical component of the NDC80 kinetochore complex , plays an essential role in maintaining chromosomal stability during mitosis . Recent studies have revealed its aberrant expression in various cancers , highlighting its potential as both a diagnostic biomarker and a therapeutic target . This review provides a comprehensive analysis of the molecular mechanisms underlying SPC25 ' s involvement in tumorigenesis , including its regulation of cell cycle progression and interaction with key oncogenic pathways . Furthermore , we discuss its prognostic significance across different cancer types and its potential impact on therapy resistance . The emerging evidence underscores SPC25 ' s multifaceted role in cancer biology , offering novel insights into its clinical applications . We conclude by exploring future research directions , emphasizing the need for in-depth studies to unravel the precise molecular functions of SPC25 and its therapeutic potential in cancer treatment .
OBJECTIVE : A conservative definition of diagnostic yields for assessing the performance of guided bronchoscopy has been proposed , but it has yet to be validated in practice . METHODS : Patients who underwent radial endobronchial ultrasound ( R-EBUS ) between April 2020 and April 2023 were included in the study . Diagnostic results were classified as malignant or non-malignant based on the post-lung-biopsy pathology . Non-malignant results were further categorized into specific benign ( SB ) , nonspecific benign ( NSB ) , atypical cells , and non-diagnostic ( ND ) . All non-malignant lesions were confirmed using alternative biopsy methods or chest computed tomography ( CT ) during a follow-up of over 1 year . Diagnostic yield and accuracy were calculated using pre-defined methods ( Box below ) . Predictors of sampling success were identified in a logistic regression analysis . RESULTS : Among the 736 patients evaluated in this study , R-EBUS-guided TBLB revealed malignancy in 431 ( 6% ) patients . The remaining 305 ( 4% ) patients with non-malignant lesions were classified as SB ( 3% ) , NSB ( 3% ) , atypia ( 6% ) , and ND ( 2% ) . Diagnostic yield vs . accuracy values based on conservative , intermediate , and liberal definitions were 67% vs . 67 , 88% vs . 77 , and 100% vs . 79% , respectively . Thus , for the conservative definition , diagnostic accuracy and diagnostic yield were identical . Significant predictive factors for successful lung biopsy according to the conservative diagnostic yield included lesion size ( > 20 mm ) , CT-bronchus subclassification ( Ia , Ib ) , and radial probe position within the lesion . CONCLUSION : Our study validated the use of the conservative definition of diagnostic yield as a reliable diagnostic endpoint for evaluating the performance of guided bronchoscopy . This definition could serve as a time-saving standard in prospective studies comparing the diagnostic effectiveness of various navigation devices .
BACKGROUND : Waldenstrom ' s Macroglobulinemia ( WM ) is a rare lymphoproliferative disorder characterized by the proliferation of lymphoplasmacytic cells producing monoclonal immunoglobulin M ( IgM ) . Extra-hematopoietic involvement , although rare , can affect the gastrointestinal tract in approximately 4% of cases and the lungs in 3-5% of cases . This case highlights the diversity of extramedullary manifestations in WM and underscores the importance of performing pulmonary and gastrointestinal endoscopies with systematic biopsies for optimal disease management . CASE PRESENTATION : We report the case of a 60-year-old Haitian man diagnosed with WM in January 2023 following an episode of acute respiratory failure . Biopsies revealed lymphoplasmacytic infiltration in both the bronchial and gastrointestinal mucosa . Biopsies revealed lymphoplasmacytic infiltration in both the bronchial and gastrointestinal mucosa , despite normal macroscopic findings during gastrointestinal endoscopy . CONCLUSION : This case emphasizes the importance of systematic biopsies during endoscopic examinations , even in the absence of visible lesions , to detect lymphoplasmacytic infiltration in WM . These findings could help in changing the approach to disease management and improving patient outcomes .
INTRODUCTION : Sarcoidosis is a systemic disorder marked by the presence of non-caseating epithelioid cell granulomas . The diagnosis relies on a consistent clinical presentation , histological evidence of non-necrotizing granulomatous inflammation in one or more tissue specimens , and the exclusion of other potential etiologies of granulomatous disease . It is a heterogeneous disease with many focal points to be clarified . For instance , finding a relationship between symptom burden , race , gender , HRQoL , and pulmonary function could have therapeutic ramifications , influence clinical practice , and aid in selecting patients for specific clinical studies . METHODS : A comprehensive statistical evaluation was conducted using the JMP partitioning algorithm which explores all potential divisions to identify the most predictive variables . RESULTS : With our analysis , we tried to categorize patients from a single Institution respiratory unit to delineate clinical phenotypes in sarcoidosis . CONCLUSIONS : Larger studies using appropriate methodology should surely be carried out to address this issue and help clarify the varying contributions of genetics , socioeconomic status , environmental exposures , and other sociodemographic factors to illness severity and phenotypic presentation . Additionally , the application of transcriptomics , interdisciplinary methods , patients ' disease perspectives , and the publishing of novel discoveries may contribute to enhanced clinical support and a deeper comprehension of the etiology of illness .
INTRODUCTION : Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-2 ( TREM2 ) variants have been identified as risk factors for neurodegenerative disease , including Alzheimer ' s disease . TREM2 is a cell surface receptor on microglia that regulates homeostatic and immunomodulatory functions , including phagocytosis of apoptotic debris and the resolution of damage-associated inflammation . It remains unclear how TREM2 may mediate an influence on neurodegenerative disease , particularly in relation to key neuropathological hallmarks such as neuronal loss and proteinopathy . METHODS : We used the ME7 prion disease model to assess the role of TREM2 in the progression and pathology of neurodegenerative disease . Prion diseases are characterised by the accumulation of misfolded prion proteins and provide a highly tractable platform to determine if TREM2 has disease-modifying effects . RESULTS : Trem2 ( -/- ) and wild-type ( WT ) mice were inoculated intracerebrally with mouse-passaged ME7 scrapie prions , and their effects on CNS disease pathogenesis were determined . Although the accumulation of prion disease-specific PrP was similar in the brains of mice from each group , the severity of neuropathology was increased in Trem2 ( -/- ) mice . Morphometric analysis of the microglia also indicated blunted disease-induced reactivity in the brains of infected Trem2 ( -/- ) mice compared to wild-type ( WT ) controls . Expression of genes involved in myelination was reduced in prion-infected Trem2 ( -/- ) mice compared to infected WT mice . CONCLUSION : We conclude that during brain infection with prions , TREM2 supports microglial reactive changes associated with resilience to neuronal loss independently of affecting misfolded PrP deposition . These data imply that TREM2 status may be an important influence on the downstream response to CNS proteinopathy , which alters the susceptibility of neurons and brain tissue to proteinopathy-induced degenerative changes .
BACKGROUND : Schools serve as crucial settings for promoting children ' s health , including oral health , yet the integration of oral health initiatives within the vast Indian education system remains underutilized , presenting an opportunity for improvement . This qualitative study aimed to explore schoolteachers ' perspectives on oral health promotion , maintenance , and the potential integration of oral health services within school environments . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Nine government and central schools in Haryana and New Delhi were selected for the study . Semi-structured interviews were conducted with 16 teachers engaged in educating students aged 10 to 17 years . Convenience sampling was utilized to select teachers with varying teaching experience . Each interview was conducted with the help of interview guide . Thematic analysis was utilized to identify recurring themes and patterns within the qualitative data obtained from semi-structured interviews . RESULTS : Teachers demonstrated a comprehensive understanding of oral health , emphasizing its significance in nutrition , confidence-building , aesthetics , and preventive care . Varied frequencies of dental visits were reported , with parental negligence identified as a significant barrier to oral healthcare services in schools . Suggestions to overcome barriers included engaging children , parents , and teachers , providing skill-based health education , improving health-promoting policies , and enhancing access to health services . CONCLUSIONS : The study underscores the importance of integrating oral health education and services into school curricula to promote holistic well-being among students . Addressing barriers such as parental negligence and lack of awareness among teachers is crucial for enhancing oral health initiatives in schools .
With the prohibition of perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) , the emergence of alternative perfluoroalkyl substances such as perfluorobutanonic acid ( PFBA ) and perfluorononanoic acid ( PFNA ) in various environmental matrices has led to concerns about their adverse effects on humans and biota . This study aims to investigate the reproductive and developmental toxicity of PFBA and PFNA by combined in vivo , in vitro , and in silico approaches . Examination of juvenile zebrafish exposed to PFBA at environmental concentrations by histopathology , sex hormone , and gene expression revealed accelerated development of zebrafish toward males , while exposure to PFNA during sex differentiation resulted in feminization . In accordance with the in vivo results , PFBA activated the androgen receptor ( AR ) signaling pathway , but PFNA inhibited it in both prostate cancer cell proliferation and luciferase reporter gene assays . Similarly , the differential binding mode of the two chemicals to AR was shown in the molecular docking analysis , with PFBA exhibiting higher potency for the agonist conformation and PFNA favoring the antagonistic conformation . Together , these results suggest that , while PFNA exhibited similar effects on sex differentiation and AR activity as PFOA , PFBA showed distinctive effects and deserves particular attention and further investigation .
Deoxynivalenol ( DON ) and octyl gallate ( OG ) are prevalent compounds in the environment and food . DON is frequently detected in cereals such as corn and wheat , while OG is commonly employed as a food additive . As a result , human exposure to these substances is inevitable . Given this , the objective of this experiment was to investigate the impact of co-exposure to DON ( 10 mug/kg ) and OG ( 10 mug/kg ) on intestinal inflammation . The RAW7 macrophage cell line was utilized to analyze cytokine levels as well as proteomic and metabolomic changes . In the quantitative real-time PCR experiments , the DON group showed significant difference compared to the control group ( * p < 05 ) and the DON-OG group ( # p < 05 ) regarding cytokine levels such as IL-10 , TNF-alpha , Il6 , Il1b , Ccl2 , Il12alpha , Nos2 , Cxcl1 , and Cxcl In the animal experiment , C57BL/6 mice were utilized to monitor body weight , the presence of bloody stools , and diarrhea . Additionally , the colonic tissues of the mice underwent pathological analysis . The results indicated that cells treated with both DON and OG displayed lower levels of inflammation compared to those treated with DON alone . Furthermore , proteomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that the regulation of the Lancl2 protein and the mTOR signaling pathway contributed to the milder inflammatory response observed in the DON-OG group . These findings were further corroborated by the pathological analysis of the colonic tissues from the mice . In the combined exposure of DON and OG , OG partially mitigated the intestinal inflammation induced by DON .
Perfluorooctanesulfonate ( PFOS ) , an emerging contaminant with widespread concern , has been associated with the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( AS ) . As a substitute for PFOS , sodium p-perfluorous nonenoxybenzenesulfonate ( OBS ) is extensively utilized in various applications and detected in human blood . However , its potential health risk in AS remain unclear . In this study , we investigated the comparative impacts of PFOS and OBS on endothelial dysfunction and atherogenesis . In the in vivo study , Apolipoprotein E knockout ( ApoE ( -/- ) ) mice were exposed to 4 or 4 mg/L PFOS/OBS for 12 weeks . We found that dyslipidemia developed more rapidly in the OBS-exposed mice than in the PFOS-exposed mice . PFOS exhibited a higher enrichment capacity in both blood and aortic tissues than OBS . Remarkably , OBS induced a more pronounced inflammatory response and caused a more significant disruption of the endothelial barrier in the aorta of ApoE ( -/- ) mice compared to PFOS . In vitro experiments showed that OBS , at the same exposure concentrations and durations as PFOS ( 1-20 mumol/L , 48 h ) , more effectively inhibited cell viability of human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) , caused higher levels of lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) release , and enhanced cell adhesion between HUVECs and monocytes . Both PFOS and OBS were found to activate the NF-kappaB signaling pathway and upregulate the expression of inflammatory factors . Notably , the use of OBS , but not PFOS , was shown to disrupt cell junctions and increase endothelial permeability by activating the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway . Our findings suggest that OBS may lead to endothelial dysfunction and have a greater impact on AS compared to PFOS , presenting significant health risks in cardiovascular diseases .
The problem of microplastics ( MPs ) pollution has caused many health risks to residents of Chinese cities . In this study , nine kinds of MPs or microrubbers ( MRs ) from dust fall ( DF ) in Xi ' an , a megacity in northwestern China , were measured by pyrolysis-gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy , namely , polyethylene , polypropylene , nylon 88 , polybutylene , polytetrafluorethylene , polyisoprene , polyvinyl chloride , natural rubber , and synthesis rubber . Here , 20% of MPs were extracted from the original DF ( samples denoted DF-O ) . After the subtracting procedure , MPs and their residual ( DF-S samples ) were divided into two parts . Our results indicated that the DF-O and MPs samples exhibited higher cytotoxicity , inflammatory , and oxidative stress levels than the DF-S samples did . The DF-O and MPs samples suppressed autophagy by decreasing expression levels of microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 ( LC3B ) , p-phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( p-PI3K ) , phosphorylated AKT protein ( p-Akt ) , and p-mammalian target of rapamycin ( p-mTOR ) while increasing the level of p Meanwhile , DF-O and MPs samples induced apoptosis through increasing levels of Bax/Bcl-2 and Cleaved Caspase-3/Caspase-3 in Raw7 cells . These trends could be reversed through removing half of the MPs in DF-O . Therefore , dust fall microplastics inhibited autophagy and induced apoptosis via activating the PI3K/Akt/mTOR pathway , increasing the Bax/Bcl-2 and Cleaved Caspase-3/Caspase-3 ratios . Here we provide a comprehensive perspective into the studies of atmospheric MPs pollution status and mechanisms of inhalation toxicity for health risk assessment of MPs in DF .
The release of micro/nanoplastics ( MNPs ) from biodegradable plastics in gastrointestinal environments due to photoaging , along with their associated mechanisms and potential cytotoxicity , is largely unknown . Here , we show that poly ( lactic acid ) /poly ( butylene adipate-co-terephthalate ) ( PLA/PBAT ) films undergo ultraviolet photoaging , resulting in increased surface roughness and a higher quantity of MNPs on the surface . This aging process involves the generation of carbon- and oxygen-centered free radicals , chain scission , and the formation of oxidation products with hydroxyl and carbonyl groups . These MNPs can be released under water shear force , significantly increasing the normalized mass loss of aged films to approximately 128 mg/cm ( 18 times higher than that of unaged films in water ) . In the gastrointestinal environment , the normalized mass loss further increases to about 196 mg/cm ( 28 times higher ) , likely due to potential enzymatic digestion and ion-swelling effects . These MNPs , primarily composed of PLA , are smaller and carry more negative charges under gastrointestinal conditions . In the THP-1 cell model , these MNPs affect cell viability in a dose-dependent manner . MNPs obtained through ultrafiltration , compared to those collected via centrifugation , display a broader size distribution and induce more pronounced toxicity in THP-1 cells , with an EC of 243 mg/L . Preliminary comparative analysis indicates that PLA/PBAT-derived MNPs present toxicity risks comparable to , or greater than , those of conventional plastic MNPs . These findings underscore the potential hazards associated with biodegradable plastics .
High-grade serous ovarian carcinoma ( HGSOC ) , an epithelial ovarian carcinoma , is primarily believed to originate from fallopian tube epithelial cells . This site of origin facilitates the dissemination of tumor cells to retroperitoneal organs or tissues , unrestricted by anatomical barriers , thereby promoting metastasis . The present report describes a rare case of HGSOC presenting with retroperitoneal involvement , and provides a comprehensive literature review on its pathogenesis , symptoms , diagnostic methods , treatment strategies and prognosis . The critical role of timely abdominal and pelvic imaging , along with tumor marker analysis , to evaluate patients with retroperitoneal tumors and nonspecific symptoms is emphasized . This approach aids in identifying the origin of retroperitoneal masses and facilitates the early diagnosis of metastatic HGSOC . Notably , an elevated serum CA125 level should raise suspicion of an ovarian malignancy .
Immunophenotypic detection and quantification of residual leukemic cells by multiparameter flow cytometry is increasingly adopted in the clinical practice of acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) to assess measurable residual disease ( MRD ) . However , MRD levels quantified by manual gating analysis can differ based on differences in gating strategy between trained operators and clinical centers . Manual gating requires extensive training , is time-consuming in daily practice , and faces a significant hurdle in analyzing data from next-generation cytometry platforms . To address these challenges , several computational approaches involving machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms have been proposed to automate or aid the assessment of MRD . However , the immunophenotypic variability between patients and the relatively low proportions of residual leukemic cells in AML challenge most algorithms and require innovative approaches . This review provides an overview of recent efforts in using computational methods for immunophenotypic AML-MRD assessment . We first explain the technical and conceptual background of the different algorithms that have been explored . Next , we discuss their strengths and limitations in the disease-specific context of AML . Finally , we highlight how computational approaches offer a unique opportunity to standardize or even outperform current manual gating analyses , and ultimately , improve the treatment of AML patients .
Patients with relapsed or refractory ( r/r ) primary central nervous system ( CNS ) lymphoma ( PCNSL ) or secondary central nervous system ( CNS ) lymphoma ( SCNSL ) face a dismal prognosis . They have been excluded from most clinical CAR T-cell trials as investigators feared an increased risk for severe immune effector cell-associated neurotoxicity ( ICANS ) . To investigate the potential of anti-CD19 CAR T-cell therapy ( CART ) in such patients , we analyzed data of 100 patients with CNS manifestation treated with CART between January 2018 and July 2023 and reported to European Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation . Median age was 62 years . Of patients , 58% had failed >/=3 treatment lines , and 40% had received autologous stem-cell transplantation before CART . Fifty-nine patients received axicabtagene ciloleucel , 38 patients were treated with tisagenlecleucel , three patients received other products . At the time of CART , 67 patients had active CNS disease . Overall and progression-free survival ( PFS ) at 24 months were 37% and 28% . Relapse incidence ( RI ) at 24 months was 59% , whereas non-relapse mortality at 1 year was 7% . Cytokine release syndrome ( CRS ) and ICANS of any grade occurred in 83% and 42% of patients , respectively . CRS grade 3 occurred in 11 and ICANS grades 3-4 in 17 patients . Two patients died of neurotoxicity . Elevated lactate dehydrogenase was an independent risk factor for RI and PFS ( hazard ratio [HR] 4 , p = 003 ; HR : 9 , p = 016 ) . Patients with ECOG 2-3 had a significantly increased risk for the development of ICANS ( HR 68 , p = 002 ) . These data support the implementation of CART as treatment for patients with r/r PCNSL and SCNSL .
Human papillomavirus ( HPV ) related cancers often arise from a background of chronic inflammation . Systemic treatment for advanced HPV-related cancers has been disappointing due to their strong resistance to chemotherapy and even to tyrosine kinase inhibitors ( TKIs ) . Recently , the use of immune checkpoint inhibitor ( ICI ) therapy has revolutionized the systemic treatment of advanced HPV-related cancers . For the first time , clinical trials testing ICIs , anti-CTLA-4 , and anti-PD1/PDL1 reported a survival benefit in patients with sorafenib resistance . However , it took a long time to find the right combination regimen to use ICIs in combination with the antiangiogenic agent bevacizumab to substantially prolong overall survival ( OS ) of patients with advanced HPV-related cancer after sorafenib . This review provides a comprehensive history of ICI therapy in HPV-related cancer , up-to-date information on the latest ICI clinical trials , and discusses the recent development of novel ICIs that would potentially lead to a new checkpoint blockade therapy for advanced HPV-related cancer .
The spontaneous spreading ( SS ) process is one of the solution-processed technologies for preparing organic photovoltaics ( OPVs ) . As a broadly used solvent in OPV preparation , chloroform is rarely applied in the SS process since the chloroform-based active layer solution generally forms a wrinkled film , which limits the performance of the devices . In this work , an SS process is developed with amphiphilic additives to prepare efficient OPVs using chloroform as the solvent . By adding amphiphilic additives into the chloroform solution , the interfacial tension between the chloroform solution and water can be tuned finely , and a uniform active layer film can be formed on the water surface . Adopting SS-PM6 : Y6 film as the active layer , the SS-OPV is successfully prepared in open-air conditions , and the device performance is comparable to the device prepared by the spin-coating method . Notably , the OPV device using recycled SS-PM6 : Y6 film is also demonstrated to present an efficiency of over 14% .
3D cell culture models and precision diagnostics have advanced significantly through microfluidic systems , yet their broad implementation remains limited by challenges in scalability , integration , and portability . Effective 3D cell culture models require systems that maintain sample integrity , minimize evaporation , and avoid crosstalk while handling various biofluids . However , current platforms often depend on active pumping , bulky components , and complex controls , which hinder portability , usability , and affordability . To address these challenges , the Capillary Droplet microfluidic ( Cap-Drop ) is presented , a novel capillary-driven platform that generates and immobilizes droplets with precision , eliminating the need for external pumps or intricate setups . Unlike conventional system , where moving droplets complicate tracking and identification , Cap-Drop ensures fixed droplet positioning , allowing seamless tracking and analysis . By integrating hydrophilic and hydrophobic materials with several innovative capillary elements -including passive vents ( PV ) , pressure reducer ( PR ) , stop valves ( SV ) , delay channels , and bubble trap ( BT ) -Cap-Drop enables robust droplet formation ( 40 to 500 nL ) for biofluids of varying properties . The pre-programmed design of PV in corporation with other capillary elements autonomously seals microwells ( MWs ) , ensuring consistent sample digitization and supress risk of evaporation . Cap-Drop is optimized and offers a transformative platform for microfluidic technologies in mechanistic cellular studies , preclinical drug screening , and clinical diagnostics .
Proliferating multiple myeloma ( MM ) cells in the bone marrow fluctuate across various metabolic states to resist cancer treatments . Herein , we investigate how mitochondrial dynamics , which controls mitochondrial fitness via coordinated fission and fusion events , shapes MM cell metabolism impacting growth , survival and drug sensitivity . We identify MFF ( Mitochondrial Fission Factor ) , a pivotal driver of mitochondrial fragmentation , as being highly expressed in MM plasma cells bearing cytogenetic abnormalities predicting poor clinical outcome . In preclinical models , MFF selective inhibition via multiple RNAbased strategies ( shRNAs , siRNAs or LNA gapmeR ASOs ) reduces MM cell growth both in vitro and in vivo , enabling adaptive metabolic responses consistent with the induction of glycolysis and the inhibition of lactate-mediated OXPHOS . We also demonstrate that lactate supplementation , as well as clinically relevant drugs promoting lactate accumulation , such as AZD3965 and Syrosingopine , trigger MFF-dependent metabolic changes , enhancing the sensitivity of MM cells to strategies targeting mitochondrial fission . Finally , we highlight a novel lactate-MFF axis involved in proteasome inhibitor resistance , and show that combining AZD3965 or Syrosingopine with bortezomib results in synergistic anti-MM activity along with MFF down-regulation . Collectively , these data point to MFF-dependent mitochondrial fragmentation as a key metabolic hallmark of MM , providing a framework for the development of novel therapeutic strategies targeting mitochondrial dynamics and harnessing the metabolic plasticity of malignant plasma cells . FAU - Cantafio , Maria Eugenia Gallo
Magnetic nanoparticles , especially iron oxide nanoparticles , have become versatile and widely used tools in nanomedicine due to their unique magnetic properties , biocompatibility , and tunable functionality . Liposomes have further enhanced the potential of iron oxide nanoparticles by serving as effective nanocarriers with advantages such as drug coencapsulation and enhanced molecular imaging properties . In this study , we present magnetoliposomes composed of ultrasmall free-floating iron oxide nanoparticles inside liposomes ( LP-IONPs ) and thermoresponsive phospholipids , which were designed as dual T-T magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) contrast agents for image-guided liposome degradation and infrared light-responsive nanocarriers in the second biological window for remote-controlled drug delivery . We demonstrated a dynamic shift from T to T MRI contrast during intracellular degradation of LP-IONPs , along with successful light-activated drug release in cancer cells . Biodistribution studies using MRI and histological analysis confirmed their potential for in vivo applications . These results highlight the potential of LP-IONPs as image-guided and remote-controlled drug delivery systems . FAU - Fernandez-Mendez , Laura
Not available . FAU - Cornelissen , Jan J
Cardiac response ( CarR ) is associated with survival in AL amyloidosis , but substantial variation exists in response kinetics . We investigated variables associated with deep CarRs to characterize the factors that govern organ recovery . Retrospective study of newly-diagnosed AL amyloidosis patients ( n=401 ) diagnosed between 2010-2022 and assessable for CarR . CarRs were recorded at 6 , 12 , 24-months and the best CarR . Deep CarR was defined as CarVGPR or better ( >60% reduction in baseline NT-proBNP or </=350 pg/mL ) . High-risk cytogenetic abnormalities ( HRCAs ) included del ( 17p ) , t ( 4 ; 14 ) , t ( 14 ; 16 ) , and t ( 14 ; 20 ) . Logistic and competing-risk regression ( treating death as a competing event ) were used to examine variables associated with CarR . The median age was 65-years , with a median follow-up of 5-years . At 6 , 12 , 24-month and best overall response landmarks , 12% , 24% , 33% and 45% of patients had obtained >/=CarVGPR , respectively . Baseline bone-marrow plasma-cells ( BMPCs ) >/=20% , obtaining >/=hemVGPR within 6-months , kappa isotype , HRCAs and ASCT were significantly associated with deep CarR on logistic regression and competing-risk analysis . In-line with their impact on CarR , ASCT , kappa isotype and deep HemR within 6-months were associated with improved overall survival ( OS ) on multivariable Cox proportional hazards modeling . Conversely , high BMPC burden and the presence of HRCAs had no association with OS on adjusted analysis . As this cohort was retrospectively selected for CarR assessment , these results need to be interpreted accordingly . Nonetheless , the association between a ' myeloma phenotype ' and CarR kinetics , endorses the role of direct light-chain toxicity and suggests that clonal plasma-cell features significantly influence organ response in AL amyloidosis . FAU - Rees , Matthew J
The interaction between VWF and platelet alphaIIbbeta3 is thought to be essential for clot formation at injury sites , but its biological properties remain poorly understood due to the complexity and overlap with other alphaIIbbeta3 ligands . Here , we developed a novel binding assay using a recombinant alphaIIbbeta3 headpiece to evaluate VWF-alphaIIbbeta3 binding in plasma from 441 Zimmerman Program participants . The VWF : alphaIIbbeta3 to VWF : Ag ratio was significantly lower in patients with type-1 , 2A , and 2B VWD than healthy controls . We identified five index cases with the p . R2464C variant in the VWF-C-domain , where affected family members displayed significantly reduced VWF : alphaIIbbeta3/VWF : Ag ratios . To investigate the function of the VWF-alphaIIbbeta3 interaction , we created a mouse model ( VWFRGES/RGES ) by altering the VWF-RGDS motif to RGES , which abolished VWF-alphaIIbbeta3 binding . VWFRGES/RGES mice exhibited increased blood loss following lateral TVT and reduced thrombus stability in a laser injury model , showing a 59-fold larger AUA for emboli compared to wild-type . However , initial bleeding times and outcomes of carotid artery injury were comparable . Overall , our VWF : alphaIIbbeta3 binding assay is valuable for characterizing VWD , and the VWFRGES mouse model underscores the physiological significance of the VWF-alphaIIbbeta3 interaction , highlighting that VWF-alphaIIbbeta3 interaction is crucial for stabilizing platelet plug formation at injury sites . FAU - Shi , Qizhen
Not available . FAU - Wan , Xinyu
Accumulating evidence have highlighted the critical role of tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) in promoting immune evasion and disease progression in acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and myelodysplastic syndromes ( MDS ) . Combined single-cell RNA sequencing , flow cytometry , and immunohistochemistry studies of the innate immune compartment in bone marrow of MDS/AML reveal a shift toward a tumor-supportive M2-polarized macrophage as well as the expression of programmed cell death-ligand 1 ( PD-L1 ) in this cell lineage . We found the leukemic stroma cells with high level of TGFbeta1 secretion can determine TAMs toward M2-polarized subtype . Further mechanistic investigations revealed that bone marrow stromal cells with specific glycans , reduced bisecting N-acetylglucosamine ( GlcNAc ) levels , in MDS/AML promoted M2-polarized subtype through the secretion of TGFbeta1 , which elevated PD-L1 expression and thereby impaired CD8+ T cell function . Our study provides insights into the mechanisms of selectively modifying specific glycans in bone marrow stroma cells may contribute to targeting strategies aimed at the tumor microenvironment . FAU - Feng , Jingjing
Dysregulation of p53 and phosphoinositide ( PIPn ) signaling are both key drivers of oncogenesis and metastasis . Our recent findings reveal a previously unrecognized interaction between these pathways , converging in the nucleus to form a PIPn-p53 signalosome that modulates nuclear AKT activation and downstream signaling , thereby influencing cancer cell survival and motility . This review examines recent insights into nuclear PIPn signaling in the context of established roles for p53 in cell dynamics and migration while also deliberating current research on how nuclear PIPns interact with p53 to form signalosomes that affect cell motility . We emphasize the critical role of PIPns in stabilizing p53 and activating de novo nuclear AKT signaling , which subsequently modulates key motility-related pathways . Understanding the unique operation and function of the PIPn-p53 signalosome in nuclear phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) -AKT activation offers novel therapeutic strategies for controlling cancer metastasis by targeting pertinent interactions and events .
Monkeypox is a viral zoonosis caused by the monkeypox virus ( MPXV ) . Although the virus was identified decades ago , human immunity to MPXV infection has not been widely characterized . During MPXV infection , macrophages are recruited at the site of infection and are thought to contribute to the spread of the virus . Cases of MPXV vertical transmission were reported in infected pregnant women to the developing fetuses in utero resulting to high viral burden in placenta tissue and abortion . We aim to understand the impact of MPXV infection at the foeto-maternal interface by focusing on macrophages functions . Using full-term placental explant model , macrophages were recruited at site of infection . Isolated naive macrophages are permissive to MPXV infection and secrete high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines associated with a strong M1 polarization profile . Analysis of antiviral gene expression reveals upregulation of IFNA and IFN-associated genes suggesting that MPXV induces the expression of some component of antiviral response from macrophages that are unable to clear the virus . Our study shows that macrophages are permissive to MPXV that subverts inflammatory and antiviral machinery without virus clearance . Such findings contribute to better knowledge of MPXV vertical transmission pathogenesis .
Silk fibroin materials are promising for use in controlled drug delivery in the field of tissue engineering and biomedical applications thanks to silk ' s generally established biocompatibility and tunable properties for implants and drug storage . Several factors must be considered in the materials design , including material format , drug properties and release kinetics , and the activity and stability of the drug after release . While numerous reviews described silk-based DDS that demonstrated controllable in vitro release , success in vivo has been limited , especially in some material formats . This review therefore aims to provide insight into the current material format and functionalization strategies to maximize in vivo performance by describing the in vivo activity of recently developed silk drug delivery systems . The review also aims to provide a fresh perspective on the suitable format and functionalization strategies for a target biomedical application . Based on the release behavior of drugs in various material formats , silk films , foams , and microneedles were better suited to serve as scaffolds for cell regeneration and improved recovery rate for biomedical applications involving wound healing and tissue engineering . Gels and particles could be incorporated within the films and foams but the purpose would be to serve as additional physical barriers towards drug diffusion in these types of application . For drugs or therapeutics that target internal organs ( i . e . brain , liver , intestines , etc . ) , gels and particles were mainly used due to their size . In the event that the material format selection based on the target application does not contribute a lot to the prolonged release of drugs or therapeutic agents , hybrid functionalization strategies were adapted to make the surface chemistry of the material more responsive to the environmental stimuli for a more tunable silk DDS . FAU - Bacal , Christine Jurene O
Gastric cancer ( GC ) is a highly prevalent and lethal gastrointestinal cancer . Dysregulation of vesicle-mediated transport-related genes ( VMTRGs ) is closely associated with tumorigenesis and disease progression . However , the prognostic value of VMTRGs in GC remains unclear . In this study , on the basis of our proteomics data and public databases , we identify differentially expressed VMTRGs in infiltrative-type GC with more metastases and recurrences identified by Ming ' s classification . Least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) regression identifies 3 VMTRGs ( SEC23A , RAB31 , and GABARAPL2 ) from 41 infiltrative-associated VMTRGs , based on which a risk model Vesicle-Infiltrative Lasso System ( VILS ) is constructed , and its effectiveness and potential importance are validated by immune microenvironment analysis and functional enrichment analysis . As an independent prognostic factor for GC , VILS , combined with other clinically independent prognostic factors to form a nomogram , is effective in predicting GC prognosis . The VILS high-risk group has higher M2 macrophage and cancer-associated fibroblast infiltration , and lower infiltration of Th1 cells and natural killer cells . SEC23A is highly expressed in GC tissues and cells . The importance of SEC23A in GC cells is evaluated by in vitro assays including colony formation assay and CCK-8 assay , and by in vivo assay using a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model . The results show that SEC23A promotes GC cell proliferation and tumor growth through regulation of the cell cycle in vitro and in vivo . VILS provides excellent prognostic prediction for GC patients and is correlated with antitumor immune cell infiltration . SEC23A , the dominant gene of VILS , is highly expressed in GC and promotes GC growth and malignant progression through various molecular mechanisms . Our study reveals the effect of SEC23A on the proliferation of gastric cancer cells for the first time . Therefore , SEC23A has the potential to be a new therapeutic target for the diagnosis and treatment of GC . FAU - Wang , Kang
Chlorpyrifos is a widely used organophosphorus pesticide for agricultural purposes to control early disease in crops . Acting as an endocrine disrupting agent for male reproductive systems which leads to reproductive toxicity . Accordingly , this study aimed to investigate the potential mechanisms by which three commercial formulations of chlorpyrifos interfere with androgen receptor function and expression in male rats . The research was conducted according to the ethical guidelines established by the institutional animal care and use committee ( IACUC ) , and the protocol received approval from Cairo University- Faculty of Science under approval number ( CU/IF/12/23 ) . Twenty-four male Wistar rats were equally allocated to four groups . The control group , chlorpyrifos groups orally received ( 43 , 43 , 40 mg/kg ) for 28 days ( 5 days /week ) . The serum testosterone hormone was estimated , and the testes were collected , and fixed in 10% buffered formalin for histopathological and immunohistochemical examination . Results indicated that chlorpyrifos formulations caused a marked decrease in testosterone levels and downregulation of androgen receptor expression . Moreover , a significant reduction in tubular diameter , lumen diameter , and thickness of germinal epithelial cells was detected along with the Jonson score . In summary , exposure to the three chlorpyrifos formulations resulted in notable alterations in testosterone levels , decreased expression of androgen receptors , and compromised spermatogenesis , culminating in testicular damage and male infertility . Of the formulations assessed , chlorpyrifos-W was identified as the most effective disruptor of androgen signalling , demonstrating higher toxicity compared to the other formulations . FAU - Mohamed , Rania A
Acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) is a major contributor to both morbidity and mortality , resulting from the abrupt blockage of a coronary artery . Myocardial reperfusion refers to the re-establishment of coronary blood flow following a period of coronary occlusion , which may provoke an intensified and rapid injury to the myocardium , known as ischemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) injury . Inflammation is a key feature of myocardial infarction ( MI ) and ischemia/reperfusion ( MI/R ) injury , playing a central role among the pathological mechanisms involved in AMI and MI/R injury . Non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) , such as miRNAs , lncRNAs , and circRNAs , constitute a significant portion of the transcribed genome , with their essential roles and potential in regulating and resolving inflammation now well established . Abnormal ncRNA expression has been linked to the worsening of inflammatory processes and plays a role in the pathogenesis of MI and MI/R injury . This study emphasizes the essential roles played by miRNAs and competitive endogenous RNAs ( ceRNAs ) in the progression of MI and MI/R . In addition , our final section provides an in-depth analysis of the therapeutic targeting of ncRNAs through a variety of methods , including pharmacological interventions , herbal medicine , and exosome-derived stem cell applications , aimed at alleviating inflammation and possibly advancing MI treatment . FAU - Bi , Sining
AIMS : This study aims to develop a quantitative method for assessing collagen VI expression in cell cultures , which is crucial for the diagnosis and treatment of collagen VI-related dystrophies . METHODS : We developed a combined in-cell western ( ICW ) and on-cell western ( OCW ) assay , which we have called ' collablot ' , to quantify collagen VI and its organisation in the extracellular matrix of cell cultures from patients and healthy controls . To optimise it , we optimised cell density and the protocols to induce collagen expression in cultures , as well as the cell fixation and permeabilisation methods . This was completed with a thorough selection of collagen antibodies and a collagen-hybridising peptide ( CHP ) . We then used collablots to compare cultures from patients and controls and evaluate therapeutic interventions in the cultures . RESULTS : Collablots enabled the quantification of collagen VI expression in both control and patient cells , aligning with immunocytochemistry findings and detecting variations in collagen VI expression following treatment of the cultures . Additionally , CHP analysis revealed a marked increase in collagen network disruption in patients compared to the controls . CONCLUSIONS : The collablot assay represents a suitable method for quantifying collagen VI expression and its organisation in culture and assessing the effect of therapies .
IntroductionThoracic SMARCA4-deficient tumors , which are rare and aggressive malignancies found in the lung or thoracic cavity , present a challenge in treatment standardization . This challenge arises from their resistance to chemotherapy and the absence of targeted therapy options . MethodsThoracic SMARCA4-deficient tumors were identified retrospectively using pathology databases . The clinicopathological characteristics of these tumors are outlined , and the clinical outcomes of advanced patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) in combination with chemotherapy and chemotherapy alone are reviewed . ResultsThirty-nine patients had thoracic SMARCA4-deficient tumors , with a median age of 62 years . The cohort consisted of 3% males , and 7% had a history of smoking . Within this group , 9% had stage III/IV disease at diagnosis . SMARCA4-deficient non-small cell lung cancer ( SMARCA4-DNSCLC ) and SMARCA4-deficient undifferentiated tumors ( SMARCA4-DUT ) display distinct histological and immunohistochemical features . Thirty-five patients underwent systemic therapy , achieving an ORR of 4% , a DCR of 9% , and a median OS of 9 months . Patients were categorized into chemotherapy ( 6% ) and ICIs plus chemotherapy ( 4% ) groups . The ICIs plus chemotherapy group exhibited an ORR of 0% and a DCR of 0% , while the chemotherapy group had an ORR of 0% and 0% , respectively ( P < . 0001 for ORR and DCR ) . The median OS for ICIs plus chemotherapy and chemotherapy groups were 9 months and 5 months , and median PFS were 6 months and 5 months , respectively , all statistically significant ( P < . 05 ) . Multivariate COX regression analysis indicated that treatment was an independent prognostic factor for OS . ConclusionThoracic SMARCA4-deficient tumors exhibit a lack of SMARCA4 expression , displaying high malignancy and aggressiveness while exhibiting poor response to standard chemotherapy . The combination of ICIs with chemotherapy could potentially serve as an effective treatment approach for thoracic SMARCA4-deficient tumors . FAU - Chen , Lijin
The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) significantly restricts chemodynamic therapy ( CDT ) efficacy through hypoxia and antioxidant defenses . An intelligent cascade nanosystem , PTA-SnS@GOx , is developed by integrating a tannic acid-modified Prussian blue analogue core , SnS shell , and glucose oxidase ( GOx ) activation module . The needle-like nanostructure enhanced tumor accumulation and cellular uptake . GOx-mediated glucose oxidation generated HO and gluconic acid , triggering pH-responsive HS release from SnS . This gas disrupted mitochondrial respiration and catalase activity , alleviating hypoxia while elevating intracellular HO levels . The oxygenated TME subsequently amplified GOx biocatalysis , establishing a self-sustaining cycle of HO production and acidification . Concurrently , Sn ( 4+ ) ions depleted glutathione , synergistically enhancing Fenton-like reactions in the PTA core for reinforced ROS generation . This multi-tiered strategy achieved effective CDT through the coordinated mechanisms : continuous HO self-supply , pH reduction , and redox homeostasis disruption . Notably , the nanosystem induced immunogenic cell death , promoting dendritic cell maturation and repolarizing tumor-associated macrophages from M2 to M1 phenotype , thereby remodeling immunosuppressive TME and activating systemic antitumor immunity . The synergistic integration of self-amplifying CDT with immune sensitization demonstrates superior tumor suppression in vivo . This study provided an intelligent paradigm for cancer theranostics by combining self-supplying HS/HO-enhanced CDT with sensitized immunotherapy .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Nervonic acid plays a vital role in maintaining normal brain and neuronal function . Nervonic acid has gained increasing attention because of its potential neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory properties . Nonetheless , the beneficial effects of nervonic acid are yet to be fully investigated . Adrenomyeloneuropathy ( AMN ) , a type of X-linked adrenoleukodystrophy ( ALD ) , is a progressive inherited metabolic disease characterised by accumulation of saturated very long-chain fatty acids ( VLCFAs ) in plasma and tissues , leading to increasing oxidative stress , mitochondrial dysfunction , neuroinflammation , cognitive dysfunction and disability . We previously found that nervonic acid can biochemically reverse the accumulation of saturated VLCFAs and increase cellular ATP production in ALD . Here , we investigated nervonic acid as a potential therapy for ALD by assessing its impact on mitochondrial function . EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH : We assessed the effect of nervonic acid on cellular bioenergetics and oxidative stress in AMN patient-derived fibroblasts . We employed Seahorse real-time cell metabolic analysis and imaging of cells treated with increasing concentrations of nervonic acid . Normal dermal fibroblasts served as the healthy control . KEY RESULTS : AMN cells demonstrate significantly impaired basal respiration , ATP production , maximal respiration and spare respiratory capacity compared to healthy fibroblasts . These mitochondrial respiration parameters significantly improved on treatment with nervonic acid in a concentration-dependent manner . Nervonic acid treatment also significantly reduced mitochondria-derived and total cellular reactive oxygen species , indicating mitigation of total oxidative stress . CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS : Our findings indicate a new mechanism of action for nervonic acid in ALD and other mitochondrial dysfunction-associated diseases . This can also indirectly prevent downstream inflammation , thus altering disease progression .
Nanoplastics are generated from the fragmentation of microplastics under various environmental conditions in the atmosphere . These tiny pollutants are widespread and can enter the human body through the air we breathe and the food and water we consume . Understanding how nanoplastics interact with different membrane lipids is paramount to discerning the kind of threat they pose in terms of lung alveolar destabilization , impaired cell communication , cell wall disruption , diminished nutrient delivery , and neurotoxicity . In this research , we examined the interaction of polystyrene nanoplastics with phosphatidylcholine and palmitic acid at the aqueous interface to identify individual lipid response . Employing a comprehensive experimental approach that includes infrared-reflection absorption spectroscopy , Langmuir isotherms , and Brewster angle microscopy , we investigated chemical and physical changes of the lipid systems with nanoplastics dispersed within the water solution phase . Increasing the concentration of polystyrene nanoplastics in the solution phase led to enhanced interfacial activity ; the nanoplastics were observed to incorporate into the lipid films driven by adsorption/complexation . The findings provide insights into the physical mechanisms through which nanoplastics permeate cellular membranes and bioaccumulate . FAU - Proma , Shamma Jabeen
INTRODUCTION : Non-melanoma skin cancers ( NMSCs ) , including basal ( BCC ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( SCC ) , are the most prevalent malignancies affecting the skin , with the head and neck region being the most common site of involvement . Surgical excision remains the primary treatment modality . The role of surgical margins in the treatment of skin SCC and BCC of the head and neck remains a subject of ongoing debate . Clear definitions and guidelines regarding adequate surgical margins , as well as their impact on recurrence rates and overall outcomes , are critical for improving clinical management . This systematic review aims to evaluate the current literature on the definitions of surgical margins for SCC and BCC of the head and neck , as well as their impact on local recurrence , disease free survival , and other patient-centred outcomes . MATERIALS AND METHODS : We conducted a systematic review following the PRISMA guidelines . A comprehensive search was performed across multiple databases , including PubMed and Scopus , for studies published up to December Eligible studies included those that reported on surgical margin definitions , surgical outcomes , and recurrence rates for SCC and BCC of the skin in the head and neck region . Data were extracted and analysed for margin size and oncological outcomes . RESULTS : Following the application of inclusion and exclusion criteria , 30 studies have been retrieved for qualitative synthesis . Of these , 12 studies focused on SCC only , 14 on BCC only , and 4 on mixed histologies . Margin involvement rates ranged widely across the studies included ( 5-56% ) as did thelocal recurrence rate ( 0-20% ) . This is associated with a variability of the surgical margin both for SCC and BCC , and of the definition of margin as close/negative at final pathology . Most studies do not define a threshold for close vs . negative margins at final pathology . All studies but one reported a significant correlation between positive margins and oncological outcomes , with particular regards to local recurrence . CONCLUSIONS : The findings highlight a lack of consensus on the optimal surgical margins for SCC and BCC of the head and neck , suggesting that margins may need to be individualised based on tumour characteristics , location , and patient factors . In particular , the anatomical complexity of the head and neck region suggests to separately address different high-risk areas as nose/midface , periauricular , and periocular with specific recommendations also concerning clinical margins .
OBJECTIVE : Hypopharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma is an aggressive malignancy with poor prognosis due to frequently late-stage presentation and intrinsic anatomical complexity . Surgery remains a key treatment , and resection margins are crucial for local control and survival . However , achieving adequate margins is challenging due to submucosal tumour spread and common " skip lesions " . This systematic review examines the impact of positive and close margins on oncological outcomes and their role in treatment planning . METHODS : Following PRISMA guidelines , we included studies on adult hypopharyngeal cancer patients undergoing surgical treatment , including transoral laser microsurgery , transoral robotic surgery and open resections . The primary outcome was overall survival ( OS ) ; secondary outcomes included disease-free survival ( DFS ) , disease-specific survival ( DSS ) , and local control . A systematic search of PubMed , EMBASE , and Cochrane databases from 2000 to 2024 was conducted , with eligible studies screened based on strict inclusion criteria . Random-effect meta-analysis was used to estimate the pooled hazard ratio ( HR ) and relative 95% confidence interval ( CI ) . RESULTS : From an initial pool of 2 , 681 articles , 157 full-text studies were reviewed , and 7 met inclusion criteria . Data on 619 patients ( mean age , 9 years ) were analysed , all from retrospective studies . Among these , 17% received neoadjuvant chemotherapy , while 94% underwent adjuvant treatment due to positive margins or other adverse features . A meta-analysis found no statistically significant impact of positive or close margins on OS , DSS , or DFS when compared to negative ones . OS had an HR of 78 ( 95%CI : 79-04 , p = 17 ) , DFS HR 43 ( 95%CI : 82-49 , p = 21 ) , and DSS HR 31 ( 95%CI : 42-05 , p = 42 ) . CONCLUSIONS : This review underscores the challenges of achieving optimal margins in hypopharyngeal cancer surgery . While positive and close margins increase the risk of recurrence , their impact on survival remains unclear , emphasising the need for standardised margin assessment and tailored treatment strategies . The significant submucosal spread and presence of skip lesions necessitates a multidisciplinary approach . Future research should refine surgical techniques , improve intraoperative margin assessment , and optimise adjuvant therapy protocols to enhance oncologic outcomes .
OBJECTIVE : Over the past two decades there has been a strategic shift in treating laryngeal cancer , with an increasing emphasis on preserving the anatomical structure and function of the larynx , even in cases of intermediate or advanced stages of disease . Open partial horizontal laryngectomies ( OPHL ) are widely adopted to spare the physiological functions of the larynx while achieving good oncological control . Positive , close or narrow surgical margins remain a critical prognostic factor , with their impact varying by tumour location and laryngeal subsite . This review examines the influence of positive margins on survival and the potential need for adjuvant treatments to optimise functional and oncological outcomes . METHODS : This study adhered to PRISMA guidelines . Using the PICOS framework , it included studies on adults with laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma treated by OPHL , focusing on survival and local control outcomes . A systematic search of PubMed , EMBASE , and Cochrane databases from 2000 to 2023 was conducted and eligible studies were selected based on comprehensive inclusion criteria and screening of references . RESULTS : The initial search yielded 675 articles from PubMed , 799 from EMBASE , and 33 from the Cochrane Library . After exclusions and duplicate removal , 57 full-text articles were reviewed , with 8 included for qualitative analysis and 7 for quantitative analysis . A total of 2 , 715 patients ( age range , 16-87 years ) were recruited across studies spanning from 2001 to 2021 , all of which were retrospective . Among patients , 284 ( 10% ) received neoadjuvant treatment and 627 ( 23% ) underwent adjuvant therapy for positive margins , lymph node involvement and adverse pathological features . Seven studies assessed the association between margin status and recurrence , showing that close/positive margins significantly increased recurrence risk ( OR 77 , 95% CI 99-87 , p < 01 ) , with no publication bias detected . CONCLUSIONS : This review highlights the challenges in defining and managing resection margins in OPHL for laryngeal cancer . While positive or close margins increase the risk of local recurrence , their effect on overall survival is unclear , emphasising the need for standardised protocols and individualised , multidisciplinary treatment planning .
OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the prognostic significance of surgical margins in patients undergoing transoral laser microsurgery ( TLM ) for laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) . METHODS : A comprehensive literature search was conducted in PubMed/MEDLINE , Cochrane Library , Scopus , and Google Scholar following PRISMA guidelines . Studies comparing oncologic outcomes between positive and negative resection margins were included . Hazard ratios ( HRs ) for local control ( LC ) , disease-free survival ( DFS ) , and overall survival ( OS ) were extracted and pooled using a random-effects model to account for inter-study variability . RESULTS : A total of 26 studies , including 5 , 463 patients , met inclusion criteria . The pooled log-HR for DFS was 93 ( p < 05 ) , indicating a significantly higher risk of recurrence in patients with positive margins . However , no significant differences were observed for LC ( log-HR = -76 , p = 59 ) or OS ( log-HR = 16 , p = 40 ) . CONCLUSIONS : While positive surgical margins significantly impact DFS , their effect on LC and OS remains uncertain . Further prospective studies are necessary to refine treatment guidelines and optimise oncologic outcomes .
OBJECTIVE : Surgery remains a cornerstone in treatment of sinonasal malignancies , but the prognostic role of margin status is controversial . This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated the prognostic significance of surgical margins in sinonasal cancer and their impact on survival , alongside key challenges in its evaluation . METHODS : A systematic search in PubMed , Scopus , and Web of Science identified 64 studies ( 34 , 120 patients ) . RESULTS : The overall margin infiltration rate was 2% , varying widely across studies ( 5-2% ) and histotypes , and was the highest in adenoid cystic carcinoma ( ACC , 5% ) . Meta-analysis of 31 studies showed positive margins were associated with worse survival ( overall survival , odds ratio [OR] 61 ; disease-specific survival , OR 89 ; disease-free survival , OR 40 ) . Squamous cell carcinoma , olfactory neuroblastoma , and mucosal melanoma had the strongest correlation with margin status , while for ACC and adenocarcinomas statistical significance was not reached . High heterogeneity was noted across studies , alongside inconsistent margin classification , distance thresholds , and use of frozen sections , limiting cross-study comparability . CONCLUSIONS : This study confirms the prognostic value of surgical margins , but underscores the urgent need for standardised definitions to improve prediction of oncologic outcomes and clinical decision-making .
OBJECTIVE : In oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( OPSCC ) , proper definition of surgical margins may have substantial impact on oncologic outcomes . Minimally-invasive techniques prioritise reduced morbidity , yet open approaches remain significant due to limited large-scale evidence comparing their outcomes with transoral methods . The purpose of the present systematic review was to assess the incidence of positive margins in OPSCC management based on surgical approach ( open vs transoral ) and the subsequent risk of additional treatments . METHODS : Medical databases were searched including PubMed , Scopus , EMBASE , and Cochrane Library from January 2000 to August Data analysis was carried out in accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analysis , and the quality of studies was evaluated using the Newcastle-Ottawa Scale . RESULTS : Four studies , including 305 patients ( 126 treated by an open approach , and 179 by transoral surgery ) , were qualitatively analysed . No significant difference was found in the rates of positive margins ( p = 422 ) or need for adjuvant therapy ( p = 368 ) between the two approaches . It was not feasible to conduct a meta-analysis due to significant inconsistencies in the reporting of data across the studies included . CONCLUSIONS : Transoral approach is recommended for early-stage OPSCC when adequate exposure is achievable , although its impact on positive surgical margins remains unclear . The management of close or positive margins remains debated due to the oropharyngeal unique anatomy and function , with no clear de-intensification protocol established .
OBJECTIVE : The aim of this study is to analyse the impact of surgical margins on survival outcomes for patients with oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma ( OCSCC ) . METHODS : Pooled hazard ratios ( HRs ) and 95% confidence interval ( CI ) were calculated to define the impact of positive and close margins on overall survival ( OS ) , disease-free survival ( DFS ) , and disease-specific survival ( DSS ) . RESULTS : A total of 14 studies enrolling 4839 patients ( of whom 3837 males , or 3% ) , with a median age of 59 years , were included . The incidence of positive margins was 1% , while that of close margins was 3% . The estimated pooled HRs for patients with positive surgical margins were 265 ( 95% CI : 431-584 ; p = 003 ) for OS , 076 ( 95% CI : 652-608 ; p < 001 ) for DFS , and 163 ( 95% CI : 349-468 ; p = 014 ) for DSS . For patients with close margins , the HRs were 409 ( 95% CI : 064-866 ; p = 024 ) for OS , 775 ( 95% CI : 910-462 ; p = 078 ) for DFS , and 123 ( 95% CI : 425-974 ; p = 658 ) for DSS . CONCLUSIONS : Positive surgical margins are a significant prognostic factor in OCSCC . Further studies are required to better define the impact of close margins .
Determining the origin of mucinous adenocarcinomas can be challenging due to overlapping histologic and immunohistochemical features . This study evaluates the utility of SATB2 and villin immunohistochemical markers for defining mucinous adenocarcinomas ' origin . We retrospectively analyzed 71 patients with mucinous adenocarcinomas-31 lower gastrointestinal ( GI ) , 28 ovarian , and 12 cases of pseudomyxoma peritonei . Immunohistochemistry for SATB2 and villin was performed on ovarian and GI tumor samples . Sensitivity , specificity , and positive and negative predictive values were calculated to assess diagnostic performance . For identifying GI origin , SATB2 showed 1% sensitivity and 100% specificity , while villin exhibited 5% sensitivity but only 4% specificity . Dual SATB2/villin positivity demonstrated 6% sensitivity and 100% specificity for GI origin . For ovarian origin , dual SATB2/villin negativity provided 100% specificity . Logistic regression analysis on the adenocarcinoma cases showed 2% accuracy rate of dual staining with SATB2 and villin for predicting GI versus ovarian origin . SATB2 exhibits high specificity for GI mucinous adenocarcinomas , and villin is highly sensitive . Combining SATB2 and villin optimizes diagnostic performance for differentiating the primary origin site of mucinous adenocarcinomas and determining pseudomyxoma peritonei origin . Moreover , the presence of signet ring morphology prompted reconsideration of possible GI origin among our cases . A multimarker immunohistochemical panel , including SATB2 and villin can enhance the diagnostic accuracy of challenging mucinous adenocarcinoma cases .
The immunological microenvironment in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is characterized by impaired immune responses . Significantly , LAIR-2 levels correlate with immune cell subtype infiltration , T cell exhaustion , and its prognostic potential in HCC . This study aims to assess the diagnostic and prognostic significance of expression levels of Pax8-AS1 and LAIR-2 in patients with HCV and their association with susceptibility to HCC . Pax8-AS1 and LAIR-2 expression levels in the serum of patients were analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR ( RT-PCR ) , while the efficacy of biomarkers in prognostic prediction was assessed by using bioinformatics . The current research showed that Pax8-AS1 had low expression levels in the blood and a positive correlation with portal vein diameter in HCC , which is predictive of portal vein thrombosis ( PVT ) development . The expression levels of LAIR-2 were elevated in HCV and HCC cases . In HCC , there was an inverse correlation among LAIR-2 and hematology laboratory tests , albumin , tumor nodules , ascites , and splenomegaly . However , there was a positive correlation among LAIR-2 , spleen diameter , AFP , and bilirubin . Pax8-AS1 and LAIR-2 showed remarkable diagnostic efficacy , with sensitivity and specificity values , respectively ( p < 001 ) ( 80% , 80% and 90% , 100% ) in HCV and ( 7% , 80% and 93% , 100% ) in HCC . LAIR-2 overexpression positively correlates with several critical genes associated with exhausted T cells immune infiltration , T cells , CD4+ , and CD8+ T cells . The present data support a novel diagnostic and prognostic function for LAIR2 and PAX8-AS1 in HCC , and its significant association with T cell exhaustion contributes to its promotion in HCC . LAIR-2 detection could provide a new prognosis prediction method , and regulation within T-cell exhaustion , optimizing anti-HCC treatments .
Recent advancements in exosome research have revealed their crucial role in myeloid leukemia , encompassing chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) and acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) . Exosomes , small extracellular vesicles released by various cells , play a significant role in intercellular communication and impact key cellular processes such as growth , proliferation , angiogenesis , survival , and apoptosis . In leukemia , exosomes contribute to disease progression and therapeutic resistance by facilitating immune evasion , enhancing tumor cell proliferation , and promoting angiogenesis . For instance , exosomes derived from CML cells can transfer drug resistance to sensitive cells , and some exosomes derived from AML patients contain cytokines like TGF-beta1 that inhibit immune cell activity . Exosomes also influence tumor organotropism by interacting with extracellular matrix molecules and modifying the tumor microenvironment . Despite their high potential , clinical applications of exosomes are limited . Their natural nanoparticle properties-such as adaptability , biodegradability , low toxicity , and the ability to cross biological barriers-make them promising candidates for targeted drug delivery and personalized medicine . Further research is necessary to scale up exosome production and harness their full therapeutic potential . By integrating advancements in exosome biology with innovative therapeutic strategies , there is significant potential for improved management and treatment of leukemia .
Ulcerative colitis ( UC ) , a common inflammatory bowel disease , has become increasingly prevalent worldwide , posing significant health challenges . This study explored the anti-inflammatory effects of beta-sitosterol on UC and its underlying molecular mechanisms . Using a dextran sulfate sodium ( DSS ) -induced colitis model in male C57BL/6 mice , the therapeutic potential of beta-sitosterol at low ( 2 mg/kg ) and high ( 6 mg/kg ) doses was compared with sulfasalazine ( 300 mg/kg ) as a positive control . Disease progression was assessed through Disease Activity Index ( DAI ) scores , histological analysis , and inflammatory marker expression . beta-sitosterol significantly ameliorated colonic inflammation , demonstrated by lower DAI scores , improved histological architecture , and reduced levels of inflammatory mediators , including NO , MPO , IL-6 , and iNOS , while upregulating the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL- Mechanistically , beta-sitosterol promoted AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) expression and suppressed myosin light chain kinase ( MLCK ) expression . These findings were validated in vitro using LPS-stimulated Caco-2 cells , where beta-sitosterol decreased inflammatory marker levels and modulated AMPK/MLCK signaling . Notably , the use of Compound C , an AMPK inhibitor , reversed these effects by suppressing AMPK activity and restoring MLCK expression , confirming that the anti-inflammatory actions of beta-sitosterol are AMPK-dependent . In conclusion , this study highlights the therapeutic potential of beta-sitosterol in UC through modulation of the AMPK/MLCK signaling pathway . These findings not only deepen our understanding of beta-sitosterol ' s anti-inflammatory properties but also suggest its potential in developing novel AMPK-targeted therapies for inflammatory bowel disease management .
In Osteoarthritis ( OA ) , the senescence of chondrocytes plays a pivotal role , contributing to cartilage degradation and impairing tissue repair mechanisms . ( Kp-10 ) , a peptide hormone , exerts diverse biological functions across multiple cell types and tissues via its receptor Gpr However , its role in chondrocytes and OA has been understudied . This study investigates the role of Kp-10 in mitigating TNF-alpha- induced senescence in primary chondrocytes , a hallmark of OA pathogenesis . Gpr54 expression was confirmed in both primary chondrocytes and the ATDC5 chondrogenic cell line , with TNF-alpha treatment leading to a dose-dependent decrease in Gpr54 expression . Kp-10 treatment at concentrations of 50 and 100 nM effectively ameliorated TNF-alpha-induced senescence , as evidenced by diminished senescence-associated beta-galactosidase staining and enhanced telomerase activity . Moreover , Kisspeptin-10 modulated the expression of key regulators involved in cellular aging , including hTERT and TERF2 , and suppressed the activation of the p53/p21 pathway . Notably , Kp-10 restored SIRT1 expression , which was downregulated by TNF-alpha . Silencing SIRT1 abolished the protective effects of Kp-10 , highlighting the essential role of SIRT1 in its anti-senescence action . These findings suggest that Kp-10 may be a promising therapeutic strategy for OA by mitigating chondrocyte senescence and improving cellular function by modulating the SIRT1 and p53/p21 pathways .
Dietary exposure to acrylamide is almost unavoidable and may result into long-term consequences . It has been reported to cause sexual dysfunction and even infertility . This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of caffeic acid against acrylamide-induced reproductive dysfunction in male rats . Group 1 served as the control ; group 2 received acrylamide at a dose of 40 mg/kg for 10 days . In groups , 3-6 , acrylamide was given as in group 2 , followed by therapy of caffeic acid ( 10 , 20 , 30 , 40 mg/kg ) for 3 consecutive days . It was found that acrylamide causes significant alteration in serum concentrations of FSH , testosterone , and LH ; decreased sperm motility and viability . Acrylamide administration causes alteration in biochemical parameters including lipid peroxidation , reduced glutathione , and antioxidant enzymes ( SOD and CAT ) along with triglyceride , cholesterol , and seminal fructose . Moreover , acrylamide causes histological alterations and promotes DNA damage as evident by COMET assay . After caffeic acid treatment , serological , biochemical , and histological alterations returned to almost normal ranges . Based on our findings , it is reasonable to conclude that caffeic acid , a natural antioxidant , is a potential medication to lessen any harmful damage in male gonads brought on by acrylamide consumption .
Twenty-four succinimide derivatives were tested for their antiproliferative effect toward steroid hormone-responsive carcinoma cell lines : estrogen positive human breast carcinoma ( MCF-7 ) , lung carcinoma ( A549 ) , colon carcinoma ( HT-29 ) , and cervix carcinoma ( HeLa ) . In addition , their antiproliferative effect was analyzed against late-stage estrogen and progesterone negative breast carcinoma ( MDA-MB-231 ) and for safety were also investigated against normal fetal lung ( MRC-5 ) cell lines . Molecular docking studies were conducted to observe their binding affinity for steroid hormone receptors and BCRP/ABCG2 transporter . All analyzed succinimides exhibited antiproliferative effects on at least one carcinoma cell line and were safe toward normal fetal lung cells . Their safety was confirmed based on in silico predictions . The succinimides were binding through the same pi-stock interactions for the same Phe-778 of the progesterone receptor as the proven ligand and the same Phe-439 of the BCRP as the proven substrate and inhibitor . In addition , interactions with crucial amino acid residues for ligand antagonistic effects on estrogen receptors were observed . The QSAR analysis revealed that the succinimides ' binding affinity for sex hormone receptors was governed by their flatness , polarity , size , and polarizability , while the affinity to bind for BCRP was lipophilicity dependent . The succinimides antiproliferative effect on A549 cell line given as IC was statistically significant associated with their molar refractivity ( p = 033 ) , and lipophilicity ( XlogP3 , p = 043 ) , respectively . Finally , the most promising drug candidate with the most pronounced anticancer activity was compound D11 against lung carcinoma ( A549 ) cell lines with an IC comparable to doxorubicin .
