BACKGROUND : Moyamoya angiopathy ( MA ) is a rare cerebrovascular disorder which can occur in both children and young adults , characterized by progressive occlusion of the intracranial carotid arteries , leading patients to ischemic and haemorrhagic strokes . Despite decades of research , the mechanisms underlying MA remain poorly clarified and current gaps in the understanding of pathogenesis have hampered the development of suitable preventive strategies and therapeutic options . Moreover , clinically approved biomarkers for MA patients ' stratification are missing . The unknown pathophysiology and the lack of reliable biomarkers prompted us to investigate cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) lipidome through state-of-the-art lipidomics . METHODS : Intraoperative CSF from a subgroup of MA patients in comparison to age/sex matched controls ( CTRL ) was analysed through LC-MS/MS , by an untargeted lipidomic approach . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve and simple linear regression analyses were performed for diagnostic use . We searched for simultaneously altered lipids in plasma and CSF of MA patients . RESULTS : Overall , we observed a significant increase of sphingolipids ( p < 05 ) and phospholipids ( p < 05 ) in MA CSF . A partial least squares discriminant analysis clearly separated MA and CTRL by 64% on Principal Component We identified lipid classes ( n = 12 ) with a Variance Importance in Projection score >/= 5 , within those lipids highly correlated with MA ( n = 70 ) . A significant increase in acylcarnitines , sphingolipids ( sphingomyelins and ceramides ) , phospholipids ( lysophosphatidylcholines ; phosphatidylcholines ; phosphatidylethanolamines ; ether-phosphatidylethanolamines ; ether-phosphatidylcholines ) and cholesterol esters was found by multivariate and univariate analyses . Monoacylglycerols were the only lipid class displaying a markedly significant ( p < 001 ) decrease in CSF of MA patients as compared to CTRL subjects . The ROC curve and simple linear regression analysis identified 10 out of 12 lipid classes as reliable MA biomarkers , mainly dealing with phospholipids . We then compared current and previous data on plasma lipidomic profile . The discriminant analysis returned n = 175 ( in plasma ) and n = 70 ( in CSF ) simultaneously altered lipids respectively , and phosphatidylcholines ( n = 10 ) resulted as commonly decreased in plasma and increased in CSF . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings highlighted a strong pro-inflammatory environment in MA CSF . These preliminary hallmarks could be helpful to decipher the complex MA pathogenesis , by supplying candidate biomarkers for patient stratification .
BACKGROUND : The interplay between diet and healthspan is a topic of great interest in biomedical research . Toward this end , consumption of marine omega-3 fatty acids is of particular significance , as reports suggest that diets focused on seafood can prolong the disease-free portion of the human lifespan . Fish consumption has also been linked to reduced biological aging as measured by epigenetic clocks , but there is no conclusive evidence of a causal relationship . Moreover , fish oils reduce triglycerides , and may affect other lipid profiles , as well as systemic inflammation . To investigate further , we used two-sample Mendelian randomization to investigate potential causality between fish intake and healthspan markers . METHODS : Bidirectional Mendelian randomization was performed in the two-sample setting with publicly available GWAS summary statistics . GWAS data from the UK Biobank for oily fish consumption ( n = 460 , 443 ) and fish oil supplementation ( n = 461 , 384 ) were used as the primary exposures . First-generation epigenetic clocks Hannum age and intrinsic epigenetic age acceleration ( IEAA ) , as well as second-generation clocks GrimAge and PhenoAge were collected from an independent dataset of individuals of European ancestry ( n = [34 , 449-34 , 667] ) . Finally , data from the Integrative Epidemiology Unit database was used for serum proxies of lipidemia and systemic inflammation ( n = [61 , 308-78 , 700] ) . Additional sensitivity analyses , such as reverse causation testing and the Cochran ' s Q test were performed for exposure-outcome pairs where the inverse variance weighted ( IVW ) method was significant ( p-value < 05 ) , and where the MR Egger method indicated an effect in the same direction as the IVW result . RESULTS : We report that oily fish consumption appears to decrease PhenoAge acceleration ( p < 0086 ) , whereas fish oil supplementation appears to decrease GrimAge ( p = 037 ) . Both omega-3 exposures modify the epigenetic clocks in the expected negative , or age-decelerating , direction . For the serum biomarkers , we find evidence that fish oil consumption leads to a reduction in triglycerides ( p = 004 ) , although HDL and LDL were not significantly modified . Finally , we also detected a suggestive inverse relationship between oily fish consumption and hsCRP ( p = 064 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our analysis shows that consuming fish oil , whether through whole food or as a supplement , can have a rejuvenating impact as measured by PhenoAge and GrimAge acceleration . We have also provided evidence further linking fish oil intake and lower triglyceride levels . These results , based on robust MR-based analyses , emphasize the effectiveness of dietary choices in modifying emerging measures of healthspan .
BACKGROUND : The tumor microenvironment ( TME ) supplies critical metabolites that support cancer cell survival and progression . Adipocytes support tumor progression by secreting free fatty acids ( FFAs ) and adipokines ; however , the role and mechanisms underlying lipid droplet ( LD ) release from adipocytes remain elusive . METHODS : Using two nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) cell lines and primary human pre-adipocytes ( HPA ) , we evaluate the effect of LDs on cell growth , proliferation , colony formation , and migration . We also assess the roles of LD on the tumor progression in vivo . Using RNA-seq analysis , we elucidate the effect of hypoxic NPC cell-derived exosomes ( H-exo ) on the gene expression profile of adipocytes . By co-culture system , we investigated the effect of vacuolar protein sorting 4 homolog B ( VPS4B ) -annexin A5 ( ANXA5 ) interaction on adipocyte LD maturity and release . RESULTS : Herein , we report that LDs , rather than FFAs , are the primary lipid form transferred from adipocytes to NPC cells , enhancing cancer progression . NPC cells internalize LDs directly via macropinocytosis , while H-exo induces oxidative stress and membrane fluidity in adipocytes , leading to LD release . Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses reveal that VPS4B triggers LD release by interacting with ANXA5 , and low LKB1 in H-exo enhances VPS4B O-linked N-acetylglucosamine ( O-GlcNAc ) modification through the inhibition of serine/threonine kinase 11 ( STK11/LKB1 ) -AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) pathway and activation of the hexosamine biosynthesis pathway ( HBP ) flux . CONCLUSIONS : This study uncovers critical mechanisms of LD transfer in the TME , suggesting new therapeutic avenues in NPC .
BACKGROUND : Muscle-derived uric acid ( UA ) precursors combined with fructose ingestion may increase liver UA production . Temporary hyperuricemia could impact metabolic and physiological responses over a 24-h period . This study examined the effects of intensive resistance exercise ( RE ) combined with excessive fructose intake on metabolic and physiological responses . METHODS : Twelve healthy young males participated in four trials : RE with fructose intake ( EF ) , RE with water intake ( EW ) , control ( no exercise ) with fructose intake ( CF ) , and control with water intake ( CW ) . Blood UA , glucose , lipids , blood pressure , and markers of kidney and liver function were measured during fasting and at 0 , 5 , 1 , 2 , 4 , and 24 h before and after exercise . RESULTS : UA levels in the EF and EW trials were significantly higher than those in the CF and CW trials at all post-exercise time points . The next morning , UA levels in the EF trial remained above 7 mg/dL . Increased glucose levels at 0 and 5 h post-exercise and increased creatinine ( CRE ) levels immediately post-exercise were observed . RE reduced the area under the curve for the estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) and increased systolic blood pressure , mean arterial blood pressure , and the UA/CRE ratio the next morning . Fructose intake increased glutamate pyruvate transaminase ( GPT ) levels 24 h post-exercise . CRE showed a positive correlation with UA levels , while eGFR was negatively correlated with UA levels in the RE trials . Additionally , GPT levels correlated positively with UA following fructose intake . CONCLUSION : Intensive RE combined with excessive fructose intake induced a notable increase in UA levels . This increase in UA levels appeared to be associated with temporary fluctuations in markers related to renal function .
OBJECTIVE : This study was designed to evaluate the effects of Semaglutide and adenosine on kidney protein expression in obese mice induced by a high-fat diet ( HFD ) , to identify signaling pathways involved in the obesity-related glomerulonephropathy ( ORG ) regulation using a proteomics approach . MATERIALS AND METHODS : A total of 48 mice were divided into normal-fat diet ( NFD ) , high-fat diet ( HFD ) , HFD + semaglutide intervention ( HS ) , and HFD + adenosine intervention ( HA ) groups . Mouse serum , urine , and kidney tissue samples were collected to identify markers for blood glucose lipid metabolism , inflammation , oxidative stress ( OS ) , kidney damage protein , urinary protein/creatinine , and other relevant factors . The kidney pathological changes of mice were observed under light and electron microscope . The differences in total proteins in the kidneys of mice were analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) . The proteins with significant differences were selected for bioinformatics and Western Blot ( WB ) analyses . RESULTS : Semaglutide and adenosine can reduce the weight of obese mice , improve the level of glucose and lipid metabolism , inflammation , and OS in obese mice , and have a positive effect on glomerular and tubular lesions in mice . The TXNIP/NLRP3 signaling pathway , which is involved in the pathogenesis of murine ORG , was screened using a proteomics approach . Western Blot showed that the expressions of Txn , Txnip , and NLRP3 in HFD mice were significantly higher than those of NFD mice , while the expression levels of Txn , Txnip , and NLRP3 in HS and HA mice were substantially lower than those of HFD mice . CONCLUSION : Semaglutide and adenosine can ameliorate obesity-induced renal injury , potentially through modulation of the Txnip/NLRP3 pathway .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) , which was formerly known as nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) has become a global epidemic that is predicted to affect more than 50% of the world population by However , except for Resmetiron , there are no approved drugs in conventional medicine to treat MASLD . The aim of this study was to explore the hepatoprotective effects of the aqueous extracts ( AEs ) of Osbeckia octandra ( O . octandra ) , Vernonia cinerea ( V . cinerea ) , and Atalantia ceylanica ( A . ceylanica ) which have been extensively used to treat hepatic diseases in the Sri Lankan traditional medicine . METHODS : During initial in vitro experiments , aqueous extracts ( AEs ) of these three medicinal plants were prepared and evaluated for antioxidant potential using 2 , 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl ( DPPH ) assay and Trolox Equivalent Antioxidant Capacity ( TEAC ) assay . Cytotoxicity was assessed using the MTT assay on Vero cells to determine non-toxic doses for in vivo studies . For in vivo experiments , a high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced MASLD mouse model was used . After co-treating the mice with AEs of the tested medicinal plants , their body weight gain was evaluated . Serum ALT , cholesterol , and triglyceride levels were analyzed using standard chemical methods . Hepatic lipid aggregation was evaluated by histopathology . Expression of TNF-alpha , IL-6 , and PPAR-alpha genes was quantified using qRT-PCR . Data were analyzed using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey ' s post hoc test or LSD test . The level of significance was ( p < 05 ) . RESULTS : Initial in vitro experiments revealed that AEs of these medicinal plants are rich sources of natural antioxidants with low cytotoxic effects . Subsequent in vivo experiments on the HFD-induced MASLD mouse model also demonstrated that AEs of these medicinal plants can ameliorate HFD-induced weight gain , dyslipidemia , and hepatic lipid aggregation . Reversal of downregulated PPAR-alpha gene expression confirmed their positive impact on lipid metabolism . Attenuation of increased serum ALT concentration provides evidence for their protective role against hepatic injury . In addition , these extracts could suppress the upregulation of TNF-alpha and IL-6 genes , which are crucial for inducing steatohepatitis . CONCLUSION : Aqueous extracts of O . octandra , V . cinerea , and A . ceylanica are rich in antioxidants and have the ability to suppress HFD-induced weight gain , dyslipidemias , hepatic steatosis , and hepatic inflammation providing solid evidence for their beneficial effects against initiation and progression of MASLD . Among these extracts , O . octandra stands out with the highest antioxidant activity , lowest cytotoxicity , and most promising hepatoprotective effects .
The transcriptome profiling for underpinning the role of key genes controlling formation of fiber in cultivated Gossypium barbadense compared to wild allotetraploid cotton Gossypium darwinii which remained less investigated . Owing to excellent fiber quality of both Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium darwinii and information obtained via Simple Sequence Repeat ( SSR ) markers , two lines : Xh-18 and darwinii 5-7 were selected for transcriptome sequencing during developmental stages i . e . , fiber initiation , elongation , and secondary cell wall ( SCW ) biosynthesis followed by 0 day after anthesis ( DPA ) , 5DPA , 10DPA , 15DPA and 25DPA , respectively . Twelve libraries of RNA-seq were generated and sequenced individually generating approximately 818 million clean reads of Gossypium darwinii . However , for Gossypium barbadense more than 844 million clean reads were recorded . The Pearson Correlation Coefficient ( PCC ) analysis results indicated that gene expressions for both Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium darwinii indicated more than 90% of the commonalities at the same stage of fiber growth . However , genes found among Gossypium darwinii at 5 , 6 and 7 DPA and XH-18 at 10 and 25 DPA were found disimilar . The expression quantity of RNA sequencing data , 31 genes were found common throughout all stages of DPAs in Gossypium darwinii 5-7 whereas , 377 genes were common in Gossypium barbadense XH-18 at 0 , 5 , 10 , 15 , 20 , and 25 DPA stages of fiber development . Three genes XLOC_080616 ( LTPG2_ARATH/ NLTL2_ARATH ; GPI-anchored 2 non-specific lipid transfer protein , similar to At2 g13820 ) , XLOC_065471 ( LPAT2_ARATH/LPAT2_BRAOL 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase2 ) , and XLOC_077416 ( uncharacterized protein ) shown up-regulated expression during 15 and 20 DPA for both Gossypium barbadense and Gossypium darwinii . It will also explore the possible role Gossypium barbadense DNA segment associated with development of fiber quality . Furthermore , this research will decipher the underlying process of fiber development and the possible role of genes for fiber formation in both Sea Island and wild cotton species .
BACKGROUND : Saffron , the dried stigma of the flower Crocus sativus L . , has been shown to have therapeutic effects on cardiovascular diseases . Several studies have explored the impact of saffron on atherosclerosis . However , the mechanism underlying the plaque-stabilizing and antiatherosclerotic effects of saffron has not been widely studied . Therefore , this study aimed to investigate the mechanism of the antiatherosclerotic and plaque-stabilizing effects of saffron ethanolic extract in experimentally induced atherosclerotic rabbits . METHODS : New Zealand White rabbits were fed a 1% high-cholesterol diet ( HCD ) for 8 weeks to induce established atherosclerosis . The rabbits were then treated with 50 or 100 mg/kg/day saffron ethanolic extract ( SAF ) , simvastatin ( 5 mg/kg/day ) or placebo for another 8 weeks . Body weight , lipid profile , percentage of atherosclerotic lesions , immunohistochemical analysis , and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction were performed at baseline , after high-cholesterol diet feeding , and after the intervention . RESULTS : The results showed that SAF had no significant effect on body weight . However , treatment with both doses of SAF markedly attenuated the levels of low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) and total cholesterol ( TC ) in atherosclerotic rabbits . Higher doses of SAF markedly reduced atherosclerotic lesions in rabbit aortas . Additionally , SAF suppressed the tissue and gene expression of adhesion molecules and pro-inflammatory biomarkers in the aorta . SAF also reduced MMP-9 tissue expression in the aortas of atherosclerotic rabbits , thereby increasing plaque stability . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that saffron ethanolic extract exhibits therapeutic potential in rabbits with HCD-induced atherosclerosis . This effect may be associated with the modulation of inflammatory pathways , leading to reduced expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines , endothelial activation markers , and matrix metalloproteinases . The observed reduction in vascular inflammation and endothelial activation may contribute to improved lipid profiles , decreased atherosclerotic lesion severity , and enhanced plaque stability . While these findings highlight the potential of saffron ethanolic extract as an adjunctive treatment for atherosclerosis , further studies are warranted to clarify its direct effects on lipid metabolism and underlying molecular mechanisms . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : Fatty liver disease ( FLD ) , characterized by hepatic lipid accumulation , impairs quality of life and can progress to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma , imposing a healthcare burden . This study investigates the association between the aggregate index of systemic inflammation ( AISI ) and FLD prevalence , evaluating AISI ' s potential as an early biomarker for risk assessment . METHODS : Data were obtained from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) database , which encompasses the years 2017 through Participants were chosen based on the availability of controlled attenuation parameter ( CAP ) scores derived from transient elastography ( TE ) , a technique utilized for assessing liver steatosis . The formula employed to compute the AISI is as follows : AISI = N x P x M / L , where N , P , M , and L refer to neutrophils , platelets , monocytes , and lymphocytes , respectively . Additionally , demographic , socioeconomic , dietary , and health-related information was gathered . Logistic regression models were utilized to pinpoint risk factors associated with FLD , and a nomogram was created to forecast FLD risk . RESULTS : Of the 3 , 961 participants , 2 , 377 ( 0% ) were diagnosed with FLD based on a CAP score >/= 248 dB/m . Elevated AISI was significantly associated with FLD ( P = 021 ) . Other significant risk factors included sex , age , BMI , race , marital status , hypertension , and diabetes . The nomogram demonstrated excellent discriminatory performance with an AUC of 814 ( 95% CI : 800 , 827 ) and good calibration . CONCLUSION : This study reveals a significant , independent association between elevated AISI and increased FLD risk in the U . S . population , even after adjusting for confounders . AISI demonstrated good discriminative performance for FLD , but its effect size suggests it should supplement , not replace , existing clinical risk assessment tools . AISI , a cost-effective biomarker , holds potential for enhancing FLD screening , particularly in resource-limited settings .
Adults of Aulacophora lewisii Baly ( Coleoptera : Chrysomelidae ) defoliate Luffa acutangula ( L . ) Roxb . plants , and lessen its production . Successful oviposition by herbivorous insects on their host is an important factor in the host acceptance process . In this context , it is important to investigate whether leaf surface wax chemicals from three ridge gourd cultivars ( Abhiskar , Debsundari and Jaipur Long ) could serve as short-range attractants and stimulate oviposition in A . lewisii females . Surface waxes were isolated from each leaf using the gum arabic method . Twenty-one n-alkanes from n-C to n-C and nine free fatty acids ( FFAs ) from C12 : 0 to C19 : 0 were detected and quantified by GC-MS and GC-FID , respectively . One leaf equivalent surface wax ( LESW ) of each cultivar or a synthetic blend consisting of n-alkanes and FFAs mimicking one LESW of the same cultivar served as attractants through Y-tube olfactometer bioassays and stimulated oviposition in A . lewisii females . However , one LESW of Jaipur Long or a synthetic blend of n-alkanes and FFAs mimicking one LESW of Jaipur Long served as more potent oviposition stimuli in females than one LESW or synthetic blends mimicking one LESW of the other two cultivars . In field trials , a synthetic blend of pentadecane , heptadecane , pentacosane , hexacosane and linoleic acid mimicking Jaipur Long at mole ratios of 1 : 45 : 68 : 38 : 62 at 6 g/ml petroleum ether when used as lure in funnel traps resulted in attraction of A . lewisii . Hence , the above synthetic blend could be used as a lure in baited traps in eco-friendly pest management strategies .
As lifestyle-related diseases like obesity , dyslipidemia , and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease are increasing globally , the demand for developing therapeutic agents and health foods remains high . However , there is a growing concern worldwide regarding the use of animals for biological testing . Herein , we developed a method using the silkworm , Bombyx mori , to evaluate the effects of compounds on improving obesity and lipid metabolism . A silkworm obesity and lipid metabolism disorder ( SOLD ) model , fed a 10% glucose diet for 72 h showed increased fat body weight and accumulation of neutral fat in the hemolymph and fat body . Administration of fenofibrate reduced neutral fat levels in the hemolymph , and epigallocatechin gallate reduced neutral fat levels in the hemolymph and fat body . Silkworms with improved lipid metabolism , exhibited activation of lipoprotein lipase in muscle tissue , and decreased activities of acetyl-CoA carboxylase , and activation of AMPK in the fat body . Furthermore , enhanced fatty acid beta-oxidation contributed to the promotion of lipolysis . These effects and mechanisms of action observed in silkworms are similar to those found in mammals . These results demonstrate the usefulness of the evaluation system in screening materials for their anti-obesity and lipid metabolism improvement effects using the SOLD model .
Boys ' pubertal overweight associates with future offspring ' s asthma and low lung function . To identify how paternal overweight is associated with offspring ' s DNA methylation ( DNAm ) , we conducted an epigenome-wide association study of father ' s body silhouette ( FBS ) at three timepoints ( age 8 , voice break and 30 ) and change in FBS between these times , with offspring DNAm , in the RHINESSA cohort ( N = 339 ) . We identified 2005 differentially methylated cytosine-phosphate-guanine ( dmCpG ) sites ( FDR < 05 ) , including dmCpGs associated with offspring asthma , lung function and BMI . Voice break FBS associated with dmCpGs in loci including KCNJ10 , FERMT1 , NCK2 and WWP Change in FBS across sexual maturation associated with DNAm at loci including NOP10 , TRRAP , EFHD1 , MRPL17 and NORD59A ; ATP5B and showed strong correlation in reduced gene expression in loci NAP1L5 , ATP5B , ZNF695 , ZNF600 , VTRNA2-1 , SOAT2 and AGPAT We identified 24 imprinted genes including : VTRNA2-1 , BLCAP , WT1 , NAP1L5 and PTPRN Identified pathways relate to lipid and glucose metabolism and adipogenesis . Father ' s overweight at puberty and during reproductive maturation was strongly associated with offspring DNA , suggesting a key role for epigenetic mechanisms in intergenerational transfer from father to offspring in humans . The results support an important vulnerability window in male puberty for future offspring health .
Glycosaminoglycan ( GAG ) -binding proteins regulating essential processes such as cell growth and migration are essential for cell homeostasis . As both GAGs and the lipid A disaccharide core of Gram-negative bacteria contain negatively charged disaccharide units , we hypothesized that GAG-binding proteins could also recognize LPS and enclose cryptic antibiotic motifs . Here , we report novel antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) derived from heparin-binding proteins ( HBPs ) , with specific activity against Gram-negative bacteria and high LPS binding . We used computational tools to locate antimicrobial regions in 82% of HBPs , most of those colocalizing with putative heparin-binding sites . To validate these results , we synthesized five candidates [HBP-1-5] that showed remarkable activity against Gram-negative bacteria , as well as a strong correlation between heparin and LPS binding . Structural characterization of these AMPs shows that heparin or LPS recognition promotes a conformational arrangement that favors binding . Among all analogs , HBP-5 displayed the highest affinity for both heparin and LPS , with antimicrobial activities against Gram-negative bacteria at the nanomolar range . These results suggest that GAG-binding proteins are involved in LPS recognition , which allows them to act also as antimicrobial proteins . Some of the peptides reported here , particularly HBP-5 , constitute a new class of AMPs with specific activity against Gram-negative bacteria .
Sexual dimorphism plays a critical role in disease pathophysiology , but the subtlety and complexity of these differences , along with a lack of precise comparative methods , hinder the advancement of precision medicine and drug development . This limitation is particularly evident in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) , where sex-specific molecular mechanisms remain insufficiently understood . To address this gap , we employed an advanced integrative N-glycoproteomics and proteomics approach to systematically analyze sex-biased molecular signatures in primary mouse hepatocytes ( PMHs ) under healthy and MASLD conditions . Our analysis identified 280 sex-biased proteins and 39 sex-biased N-glycosites , and KEGG enrichment revealed that female-biased molecules were primarily involved in lipid metabolism , while male-biased molecules were associated with inflammation and cytoskeletal remodeling . A combined dataset of 302 sex-biased molecules was further analyzed using protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) analysis and Rc value calculations , resulting in the identification of 21 hub proteins and 2 hub N-glycosites as MASLD-associated sex-biased signatures . Notably , MASLD amplified proteomic sex differences while attenuating them in N-glycosylation . Western blot validation of key signatures , including female-biased MVK and male-biased LGALS3 , highlighted distinct molecular adaptations between the sexes in MASLD progression . Our study introduced an advanced analytical framework for high-resolution comparative molecular profiling by integrating N-glycoproteomics with proteomics , providing valuable insights into sex-biased molecular signatures , enhancing preclinical model development , and advancing sex-specific therapeutic strategies in MASLD research and broader biological systems .
Degeneration of intervertebral discs is a significant factor in chronic lower back pain , impacting millions annually . Existing studies propose a potential link between lipids and disc disease , though causal relationships remain unclear . The objective of this study is to explore the causal connections between lipids , lower back pain , disc degeneration , and the risk of sciatica In this research , we utilized a comprehensive GWAS dataset encompassing 179 lipid traits to explore the causal connections between lipids and the susceptibility to conditions such as lower back pain ( LBP ) , intervertebral disc degeneration ( IVDD ) , and sciatica . To establish causality , we employed two-sample Mendelian randomization , supplemented by Bayesian model averaging for verification . Our assessment of diversity and mutual influence involved Cochran ' s Q test , MR-Egger intercept assessment , and MR-PRESSO . Additionally , we performed a sensitivity analysis by systematically excluding individual elements to gauge their impact on outcomes in Mendelian randomization . Lastly , bidirectional Mendelian randomization was conducted to explore potential inverse associations between lipids and IVDD . Analyzing 179 lipidomic features as exposures and IVDD , LBP , and sciatica as outcomes , this study reveals significant causal relationships of glycerophospholipids , sterols , and glycerolipids with the risk of IVDD , LBP , and sciatica . Phosphatidylcholine , triglycerides , and sterols consistently exerted risk influences on IVDD , while phosphatidylethanolamine ( O-16 : 1_18 : 2 ) among glycerophospholipids exhibited a protective effect ( OR : 927-998 , P < 05 ) . Regarding LBP , sphingomyelin ( d38 : 2 ) in sphingolipids demonstrated a protective effect ( OR : 925-997 , P < 05 ) . For sciatica , triglycerides exhibited a risk influence , with varying effects observed for phosphatidylcholine and sterols with different molecular structures . Notably , sterol ester ( 27 : 1/16 : 1 ) consistently showed a risk effect across all three conditions . Our research provides valuable insights into how certain lipids are linked to the risks of LBP , IVDD , and sciatica . Our findings indicate that phosphatidylcholine and triglycerides may increase the incidence of IVDD , LBP , and sciatica , suggesting potential adverse effects . In contrast , sphingomyelin appears to reduce the occurrence of LBP and sciatica , indicating a protective role . Sterol esters also show a protective effect against sciatica ; however , the sterol ester ( 27 : 1/16 : 1 ) consistently demonstrates a detrimental impact on IVDD , LBP , and sciatica . Additionally , our study underscores the intricate nature of lipid metabolism concerning IVDD , LBP , and sciatica . It uncovers a range of structural variations among lipids and explores how these variations may lead to different effects across various molecular subtypes .
Previous studies have demonstrated a strong correlation between the Triglyceride-Glucose Index ( TyG ) index and diabetes mellitus ; however , limited research has focused on the relationship between the TyG index and the incidence of diabetes mellitus in the Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatotic Liver Disease ( MASLD ) population . This study aims to investigate the association between the TyG index and the occurrence of diabetes mellitus in the MASLD population in Japan . This retrospective cohort study included 2 , 741 patients with MASLD from Murakami Memorial Hospital in Japan , spanning the years 2004 to The primary method employed to investigate the relationship between the TyG index and the occurrence of diabetes was Cox proportional hazards regression . Additionally , a Generalized Additive Model and a two-piecewise linear regression model were utilized to assess whether a linear relationship exists between the TyG index and the development of diabetes , as well as to calculate threshold effects . After adjusting for variables that may potentially influence the occurrence of diabetes , we found that the TyG index was positively correlated with diabetes incidence ( HR = 43 , 95% CI : 03 , 98 ) in MASLD population overall . Further in-depth analysis revealed a nonlinear relationship between the TyG index and the occurrence of diabetes . When the TyG index was less than 95 , it exhibited a negative correlation ( HR = 22 , 95% CI : 07 , 66 ) ; however , when the TyG index exceeded 95 , it showed a positive correlation ( HR = 68 , 95% CI : 20 , 36 ) . Additionally , we conducted a subject working curve analysis on the TyG index and the two components used to calculate it , fasting blood glucose and triglycerides , and found that the TyG index demonstrated higher sensitivity and specificity in predicting the occurrence of diabetes in the MASLD population . TyG index exhibits a nonlinear relationship with the incidence of diabetes in the MASLD population , and its sensitivity and specificity are superior to those of fasting blood glucose and triglycerides .
Plasma-mediated bacterial inactivation holds great promise but presents several challenges . This study investigates the antibacterial effect of 45 GHz non-thermal microwave ( MW ) plasma on Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) and Salmonella abony ( S . abony ) suspended in phosphate-buffered saline ( PBS ) . A 6-log reduction in both bacterial strains was achieved within 300 s of plasma exposure . The enhanced inactivation is attributed to elevated levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , particularly ( . ) OH ( 30% in S . aureus , 13% in S . abony ) and HO ( 27% in S . aureus , and 84% in S . abony ) , which caused oxidative stress and membrane depolarization , detected via fluorescence spectrofluorometry . Morphological changes were confirmed through field emission scanning electron microscopy ( FE-SEM ) . Membrane impairment led to leakage of intracellular contents such as proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids . DNA damage was evident from hyperchromic effects observed at 260 nm . Confocal microscopy revealed a qualitative increase in red fluorescent ( dead ) cells with longer exposure . Flow cytometry further quantified the dead cells at 88% in S . aureus and 95% in S . abony . These findings provide comprehensive insight into the bacterial inactivation mechanism and demonstrate the strong potential of non-thermal MW plasma for applications in sterilization , infection control , and food safety .
To analyze the status and related risk factors of prediabetes , diabetes and diabetes control among adult residents in Xinjiang , so as to provide basis and guidance for local diabetes prevention and treatment . A multi-stage stratified sampling method was adopted to conduct preliminary screening of all residents aged 18 years old and above . Personal characteristics , blood glucose , hypertension and blood fat were collected by questionnaire survey , physical measurements and laboratory examinations respectively , and the risk factors of prediabetes , diabetes and blood glucose control were analyzed by binary logistic regression model . The prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes and the control rates of blood glucose in 2010 and 2018 were 47% and 13% , 27% and 43% , 05% and 82% , respectively . The increasing trend was found in prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes . Old age , marriage ( including cohabitation ) , divorce ( including separation ) , overweight or obesity , central obseity and dyslipidemia were risk factors in prediabetes , diabetes was related to old age , family history of diabetes , overweight and obesity , central obesity , hypertension and dyslipidemia , and diabetes blood glucose control was influenced by age , region , central obesity and dyslipidemia . Compared with 2010 , the adverse effects on prediabetes of gender and diabetes of region were not significant , and the problem of impaired blood glucose caused by harmful drinking behavior was also alleviated . The prevalence of prediabetes and diabetes in Xinjiang residents is still at a high level , and the control of blood glucose needs to be further strengthened . Meanwhile , the elderly , region , married or divorced , family history of diabetes , overweight and obesity , central obesity , hypertension and dyslipidemia are the key groups for prevention and treatment of diabetes in this area . Active control of weight , blood pressure and blood lipids , screening and publicity of prediabetes and diabetes , and regular monitoring and early intervention are of great significance to reduce the incidence and adverse outcomes of diabetes .
Gut microbes play a vital role in host physiology , but whether specific bacterial functions contribute to the exceptional athletic performance of racehorses needs to be better understood . Here , we identify an association of gut butyrate-producing bacteria with athletic performance in racehorses ( Thoroughbred horse ) . Butyrate-producing bacteria and microbial butyrate synthesis genes were significantly enriched in the racehorse gut , and the GC-MS results confirmed this conclusion . Using a mouse model , we demonstrated that sodium butyrate is sufficient to increase treadmill run time performance . We also show that butyrate improves the host response to exercise , significantly altering muscle fibre type in skeletal muscle , and increasing muscle mitochondrial function and activity . In addition , in-depth analysis of the published data showed that the gene for the synthesis of butyrate was also significantly enriched in the gut microbes of human athletes . Overall , our study indicates that gut microbial butyrate improves run time via the gut-muscle axis , providing novel insights into gut microbial functions and paving the way for improving athletic performance by targeted gut microbiome manipulation .
Frailty is an age-related geriatric syndrome . We performed a longitudinal study of aging female ( n = 40 ) and male ( n = 47 ) C57BL/6NIA mice , measured frailty index and derived metabolomics data from plasma . We identify age-related differentially abundant metabolites , determine frailty-related metabolites , and generate frailty features , both in the whole cohort and sex-stratified subgroups . Using the features , we perform an association study and build a metabolomics-based frailty clock . We find that frailty-related metabolites are enriched for amino acid metabolism and metabolism of cofactors and vitamins , include ergothioneine , tryptophan and alpha-ketoglutarate , and present sex dimorphism . We identify B vitamin metabolism related flavin-adenine dinucleotide and pyridoxate as female-specific frailty biomarkers , and lipid metabolism related sphingomyelins , glycerophosphoethanolamine and glycerophosphocholine as male-specific frailty biomarkers . These associations are confirmed in a validation cohort , with ergothioneine and perfluorooctanesulfonate identified as robust frailty biomarkers . Our results identify sex-specific metabolite frailty biomarkers , and shed light on potential mechanisms .
Labeling cellular biomolecules via copper-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition ( CuAAC ) offers rapid reaction kinetics and uses small azide and alkyne probes that minimally disturb molecular function , making it ideal for tracking biomolecules . However , applying CuAAC inside living cells has been hindered by the high copper levels required , which compromise cell health . To overcome this barrier , here , we develop inCu-click , an intracellular CuAAC approach that employs a DNA-conjugated ligand ( BTT-DNA ) to localize and concentrate copper ions at the reaction site . This design permits efficient click chemistry at low intracellular copper concentrations without added copper salts and supports template-driven proximity and liposomal delivery of the ligand into cells . Here we show that inCu-click enables robust fluorescent labeling of nascent phospholipids and proteins in live cells with negligible impact on viability , establishing a platform for real-time visualization of biomolecule dynamics in complex , live cell environments .
Exosomes , as cell-derived lipid nanoparticles , are promising drug carriers because they can traverse challenging physiological barriers such as the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) . However , a major obstacle in utilizing exosomes as drug carriers is loading large therapeutic molecules without compromising the structural integrity of embedded biomolecules . Here , we introduce a membrane fusion method utilizing fusogenic lipid nanoparticles , cubosomes , to load large molecules into exosomes in a non-destructive manner . When the drug-loaded cubosome and exosome solutions are simply mixed , membrane fusion is completed in just 10 min . Our method effectively loads doxorubicin and immunoglobulin G into exosomes . Moreover , even the most challenging molecule-mRNA-is loaded with nearly 100% efficiency , demonstrating the versatility of our approach . In terms of biological behavior , the resulting hybrid exosomes preserve the functional behavior of exosomes in BBB uptake and penetration . Surprisingly , controlling exosome-to-cubosome ratios allows precise control over BBB uptake and transport . Furthermore , these hybrid exosomes retain cell-specific delivery properties , preserving the targeted delivery functions dictated by their exosomal origin . This study demonstrates the feasibility of a mix-and-load method for rapid and efficient drug loading into exosomes , with significant potential for the treatment of neurological diseases .
Neutrophils , the most abundant white blood cells in human circulation , play a crucial role in innate immunity . One of their key defense mechanisms is the formation of neutrophil extracellular traps ( NETs ) , web-like structures composed of chromatin and antimicrobial proteins that help capture and neutralize pathogens . While previous studies have identified a limited set of NET-associated proteins , the comprehensive proteomic landscape of NETs induced by different stimuli remains largely unexplored . In this study , we used data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry to analyze the proteomic composition of NETs induced by five distinct stimuli : beta-glucan , lipopolysaccharide , polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid sodium , resiquimod , and severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome bunyavirus . Across all conditions , we identified 5 , 868 NET-associated proteins , revealing significant stimulus-dependent differences in protein composition . Notably , differentially expressed proteins were detected in each condition , highlighting unique proteomic signatures that may reflect distinct immune responses . This dataset offers key insights into the proteomic diversity of NETs and their role in immune regulation , providing a foundation for future research on NET-mediated immunity in infectious and inflammatory diseases .
INTRODUCTION : Statins are among the most widely used drugs . While they are effective for primary and secondary prevention of cardiovascular ( CV ) disease in middle-aged subjects , their benefits for prevention in older adults ( aged >/=70 years ) without CV disease are uncertain , particularly for those with multimorbidity . Statin side effects and drug interactions are common in older patients and may negatively impact quality of life . To date , the only randomised controlled trial ( RCT ) investigating statin discontinuation in older adults has demonstrated no difference in survival but did note a small improvement in quality of life for those who discontinued statins . However , this trial exclusively enrolled patients with a life expectancy <1 year . Therefore , the present RCT aims to assess the safety and potential benefits of statin discontinuation in primary prevention for the ever-growing population of multimorbid older adults . METHODS AND ANALYSIS : This study is a multicentre , randomised , non-inferiority trial conducted in both inpatient and outpatient settings in Switzerland , France and the Netherlands , targeting patients using statins for primary prevention . 1800 participants are randomly assigned 1 : 1 to either discontinue ( intervention arm ) or continue ( control arm ) statin therapy . The primary objective is to compare the primary composite endpoint of major CV events ( non-fatal myocardial infarction or non-fatal ischaemic stroke ) and all-cause death between the control and intervention groups over a follow-up duration of up to 48 months . We hypothesise that discontinuing statins does not result in shorter event-free survival , with a non-inferiority margin set at 2 weeks over a 2-year observation period . Secondary objectives are to compare patient-centred outcomes ( health-related quality of life , muscle pain symptoms , falls and sarcopenia ) and all-cause death , non-CV death , major CV events and coronary and peripheral artery revascularisation . The study is open-labelled , with blinded outcome adjudication of the primary endpoints . ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION : The trial protocol has received approval from the local ethics committees in Switzerland , France and the Netherlands . Results will be published in a peer-reviewed journal . TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER : Clinicaltrials . gov : NCT05178420 ; BASEC ( Swiss Ethics Commission ) : 2021-01513 ; FOPH ( Swiss national portal ) : SNCTP000005172 ; Netherlands Trial Register : NL23 ; France Trial Register : 000158- IDRCB 2022-A02481-
BACKGROUND : Sodium dodecyl sulfate capillary gel electrophoresis traditionally employs entangled polymer networks ( CE-SDS ) or borate cross-linked gels ( SDS-CGE ) for size-based protein analysis . However , the separation of SDS proteins in these transiently cross-linked sieving matrices requires long analysis times and in addition , baseline humps/waves frequently occur making peak identification and quantification challenging . The analytical biopharma community has been trying to solve this problem for a decade , making it clear that a novel gel composition was required to provide baseline hump-free separation of SDS-proteins by capillary electrophoresis of higher MW biopharmaceuticals . RESULTS : Using a transiently cross-linked agarose matrix shown in this paper enabled rapid separation of therapeutic proteins with excellent resolution , but more importantly , eliminated the commonly observed baseline disturbances of dextran-based gel formulations . Using capillaries as short as 10 cm effective length , the tetrahydroxyborate cross-linked agarose matrix supported fast analysis ( approximately 5 min ) of an intact anti-SARS-CoV-2 therapeutic antibody and its subunits with excellent run-to-run migration time ( RSD <3 % ) and peak area ( RSD <5 % ) reproducibility . High resolution between the closely migrating non-glycosylated heavy chain and the heavy chain fragments was also obtained ( RS = 65 ) . The high molecular weight thyroglobulin ( 660 kDa ) , and the highly glycosylated fusion protein of etanercept were also successfully analyzed with borate-agarose-based gels , exploiting the stable baseline at the upper molecular weight range of the separation trace . SIGNIFICANCE : This paper reports for the first time on a baseline hump-free approach for rapid analysis of therapeutic proteins in a wide MW range by SDS capillary agarose gel electrophoresis . The unique potential of tetrahydroxyborate-stabilized agarose gels revolutionizes capillary SDS gel electrophoresis analysis of mAbs and more complex new modalities , offering a robust and efficient platform for high-resolution protein separation , paving the way for advancements in baseline hump-free therapeutic protein characterization and consequently good quantification .
BACKGROUND : Ferroptosis is an iron-dependent programmed cell death pathway driven by lipid peroxidation that involves various inflammation-related diseases and even cancer , which is often accompanied by the accumulation of mitochondrial ROS . HClO , as one of the vital ROS in organisms , is mainly derived from the mitochondria of cells . And abnormal levels of HClO can disrupt redox homeostasis in cells and lead to various diseases . Importantly , intracellular HClO levels are also associated with ferroptosis . Therefore , it is very important to study the fluctuation of intracellular HClO level during ferroptosis . RESULTS : Herein , a HClO fluorescent probe TPA-ClO was synthesized using triphenylamine fluorophore and benzothiadiazole structure . Notably , TPA-ClO exhibited the advantages of NIR fluorescence emission , good AIE properties and large Stokes shift , and which could selectively detect HClO with a detection limit of 0 nM . TPA-ClO could be well targeted in mitochondria and had been successfully applied to monitor exogenous and endogenous HClO in MCF7 cells . Moreover , the imaging experiment of TPA-ClO indicated that erastin- and RSL3-induced ferroptosis in MCF7 cells led to increased levels of mitochondrial HClO and that MCF7 cells showed high ferroptosis sensitivity to RSL SIGNIFICANCE : TPA-ClO exhibited high selectivity to HClO over other potential interfering substances , and could be employed to monitor HClO level fluctuations in MCF7 cells . More importantly , TPA-ClO could be an effective tool to monitor the fluctuations of HClO level in mitochondria during ferroptosis as well as for investigating various diseases associated with ferroptosis for future research .
Traditional synthetic polymer carriers are restricted due to microplastic pollution , whereas , natural polymer materials have gained widespread use as wall materials for carriers due to their biodegradability , availability , ease of modification , and biocompatibility . The mechanical properties of carriers are particularly crucial for formulation design , storage stability , and practical performance . However , there is currently a lack of reviews on the mechanical properties of natural polymer-based carriers ( NPC ) . This paper delves into the mechanical properties of NPC from five aspects : First , natural polymer wall materials are classified into polysaccharide-based , protein-based , lipid-based , and composite materials , focusing on polysaccharide-dominated systems , and the mechanical properties of NPC constructed from materials of different origins are summarized . Second , various preparation techniques for NPC are introduced , summarizing the mechanical properties of carriers constructed by each method . The paper then examines regulation strategies of the mechanical properties of NPC , including modification techniques , encapsulated substances , morphology , and particle size . Next , methods for characterizing mechanical properties of NPC are introduced . Finally , there is a summary of the progress of NPCs with different mechanical properties in fields , highlighting the challenges faced and proposing future research directions . This review links mechanical optimization to performance , bridging research and applications with eco-friendly NPC strategies .
Thermoregulation is a fundamental biological process that allows birds and mammals to maintain a stable internal temperature despite environmental fluctuations , a mechanism shaped by millions of years of evolution . Non-shivering thermogenesis ( NST ) , primarily driven by brown adipose tissue ( BAT ) , plays a central role in thermoregulation by not only helping maintain energy homeostasis but also influencing broader metabolic and physiological processes . Recent research has revealed that BAT thermogenesis is regulated by peripheral hormones and at a central level , with key hypothalamic energy-sensing pathways-such as AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) and endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress-playing critical roles . Beyond its metabolic functions , BAT and NST have emerged as important contributors to tumor biology , offering novel therapeutic strategies for metabolic and oncological diseases . This review explores the intricate mechanisms underpinning NST , including UCP1-dependent thermogenesis and alternative pathways such as creatine cycling , calcium-dependent thermogenesis , and lipid cycling . Emerging evidence further highlights BAT ' s potential in to modulate tumor metabolism , with pharmacological and genetic approaches showing promise in reshaping the tumor microenvironment . This growing body of knowledge offers exciting prospects for targeting BAT thermogenesis in treating obesity and other metabolic diseases .
Infertility , affecting one in six couples worldwide , poses significant health and social challenges . While both male and female factors contribute to infertility , male infertility causes remain underexplored , with about 34% of cases classified as unexplained . A few studies focus on the role of lipids in male fertility , and some lipids are rising as key players in spermatozoa . This review highlights the importance of lipids , particularly phospholipids , neutral lipids , and glycolipids , in spermatozoa during capacitation and the acrosome reaction ( AR ) . The dynamic lipid profile of human spermatozoa is crucial for their development , maturation , and fertilization capability . During epididymal maturation , sperm undergo crucial biochemical changes , including increased production of phosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin , which enhance membrane integrity and mobility . Increased levels of ceramide affect membrane fluidity and signalling necessary for sperm function . As spermatozoa enter the female reproductive tract , they adjust their lipid content for capacitation and fertilization . Lipid signalling is crucial for human spermatozoa , influencing their viability and fertilization potential during transit through the female reproductive tract . Lysophosphatidic acid , abundant in seminal plasma , enhances sperm motility , facilitates the AR by promoting glycolysis and calcium influx , and is important for maintaining sperm viability . The remodelling of lipid rafts , enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipids , is essential for signal transduction and capacitation . Sphingolipids , particularly sphingosine 1-phosphate and ceramide , play significant roles in sperm capacitation and AR by promoting reactive oxygen species production and calcium signalling , respectively . Understanding these lipid dynamics will increase our knowledge of the complexity of sperm metabolism .
Dietary extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) or vesicle-like nanoparticles ( VLNs ) have been shown to exert beneficial functions in a wide range of diseases such as cancer , colitis , and metabolic diseases . They have also been used as natural carriers for medications . Despite the promising translational potential of dietary EVs or VLNs , the molecular mechanisms of their absorption in the gastrointestinal tract are not well understood . In this study , we investigated the absorption mechanisms of garlic chive-derived VLNs ( GC-VLNs ) using C57BL/6J mice and a human intestinal epithelial cell line , Caco-2 cells . We found that orally administered GC-VLNs crossed the epithelial layer of the small intestine and entered the underlying lamina propria . GC-VLNs were taken up and transported across the fully differentiated Caco-2 epithelial monolayer . Proteins and lipids , but not RNAs , in GC-VLNs mediated their uptake by Caco-2 cells . Chemical inhibitor treatments demonstrated that macropinocytosis and fast endophilin-mediated endocytosis ( FEME ) played key roles in the internalization of GC-VLNs . On the other hand , clathrin-coated pit-mediated endocytosis and clathrin-independent carrier/glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored protein-enriched early endocytic compartment endocytosis did not contribute to GC-VLN uptake . Activation of macropinocytosis and FEME using their specific activators promoted the internalization of GC-VLNs . In addition , genetic manipulation of key molecules in macropinocytosis and FEME confirmed the important engagement of these two specific endocytic pathways in GC-VLN absorption by human intestinal epithelial cells . Our study has provided proof-of-principle evidence to advance our understanding of the absorption mechanism of GC-VLNs , which would be the key to further manipulation and engineering of these nanoparticles to improve their delivery efficiency as therapeutic modalities or drug carriers . FAU - Nguyen , Phuong Linh
Phospholipids that occur predominantly in the plasma membrane of mammalian cells are phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , phosphatidylserine ( PS ) , phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) , sphingomyelin ( SM ) , and phosphatidylinositol ( or phosphoinositide ; PI ) . These membrane phospholipids are a promising source of disease-related biomarkers . Phospholipids and their metabolites are altered by the type of disease or disease progression . Metabolomics has shown that increased or decreased levels of altered phospholipids and their metabolites can be useful indicators for the diagnosis of various human diseases . In this review , we discuss the utility of the five major membrane phospholipids ( PC , PS , PE , and SM , and PI ) and their metabolites as diagnostic biomarkers of human diseases .
AIMS : The AMD Annals initiative , active in Italy since 2006 , monitors diabetes care quality , showing continuous improvements through standardized indicators . This report presents the 2024 data on type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) . METHODS : Approximately half of the Italian diabetes centers annually extract anonymized electronic medical records data . Process , treatment and outcome indicators , and the Q-score , a validated score of overall care , were evaluated . RESULTS : Data from 301 centers on 680 , 122 T2D patients ( 6 % men , mean age 9 years ; 9 % > 75 years ) were evaluated . HbA1c </= 0 % was achieved by 9 % of patients , LDL < 70 mg/dl by 6 % , blood pressure ( BP ) < 130/80 mmHg by 5 % , with 7 % meeting multiple targets . Obesity showed a prevalence of 35 % , while smoking was high ( 9 % ) . Pharmacological treatment improved : 0 % used lipid-lowering drugs , 8 % BP-lowering , and 6 % glucose-lowering drugs . As for innovative drugs , 9 % of patients were treated with SGLT2i and 5 % with GLP1 RA , with an increasing trend compared to 2023 data . Complication rates remained stable , with a further Q-score improvement . CONCLUSIONS : The 2024 data confirm ongoing improvements in T2D care , despite an aging population . Although gaps persist , the path toward aligning practice with guidelines is well established .
Eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase ( eEF2K ) , a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase , exhibits paradoxical activation and overexpression in numerous tumors , suggesting a potential advantageous role for cancer cells . eEF2K phosphorylates and inactivates its downstream target , eukaryotic elongation factor 2 ( eEF2 ) , thereby negatively regulating protein synthesis . Despite being a translation inhibitor , eEF2K inhibition alone has demonstrated limited anti-cancer efficacy . This study investigates a novel approach to targeting eEF2K in cancer therapy , exploring its potential beyond its established role in protein synthesis regulation . We found that pharmacological inhibition of eEF2K using A484954 resulted in minimal cytotoxicity but effectively reduced eEF2 phosphorylation . Surprisingly , eEF2K inhibition impaired de novo protein synthesis and induced mild oxidative stress across multiple cancer cell lines . Furthermore , eEF2K inhibition compromised cellular antioxidant defenses , leading to enhanced ROS accumulation when challenged with oxidative stressors . Notably , eEF2K inhibition potentiated ferroptosis induction and lipid peroxidation when combined with ferroptosis inducers or glutathione depletion . These findings were corroborated by eEF2K silencing , which similarly increased basal ROS levels , enhanced sensitivity to oxidative stress , and promoted ferroptosis . Our results reveal a previously unrecognized role of eEF2K in maintaining redox homeostasis and suggest that targeting eEF2K may be a promising strategy to sensitize cancer cells to ferroptosis-inducing therapies .
Metaflammation is characteristic of chronic metabolic inflammation , associated with increased risk of development of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) . Palmitoylation of Myeloid differentiation factor 88 ( MyD88 ) adaptor protein mediates biologically important signal transduction pathways in inflammatory responses . However , the molecular mechanisms underlying MyD88 palmitoylation contributes to lipid-induced metaflammation in the progression of MASLD is not completely understood . In this study , an increment of MyD88 palmitoylation was observed in the livers of high-fat diet fed mice , accompanied by increased lipid accumulation and an inflammatory response . Inhibition of MyD88 palmitoylation attenuated the inflammation and hepatic steatosis in HFD-induced mice . Mechanistically , palmitoylation of MyD88 activated NF-kappaB-p65 and p38 MAPK signals in a selenoprotein K ( SelK ) -DHHC6 palmitoyltransferase complex dependent pathway . Intervention of SelK SH3 binding domain reduced the palmitoylation level of MyD88 by inhibiting the interaction between SelK and DHHC Our findings suggest that MyD88 palmitoylation regulates the metabolic disorder and metaflammation through SelK/DHHC6-dependent pathway , cooperatively . Inhibition of MyD88 palmitoylation and SelK SH3 binding domain may represent a new therapeutic strategy for treatment of MASLD progression .
Ionophore polyether antibiotics ( IPAs ) exhibit remarkable therapeutic potential in combating parasitic diseases and cancer , yet their clinical utility is significantly hampered by severe hepatotoxicity . Despite widespread documentation of IPAs-induced hepatotoxicity , the precise molecular mechanisms underlying this phenomenon remain elusive . This study elucidates the role of ferroptosis in IPAs-induced liver injury and delineates the associated regulatory pathways . Through comprehensive in vitro ( HepG2 cells ) and in vivo ( mice ) investigations , we demonstrate that IPAs , particularly the highly toxic maduramicin ( Mad ) , induce hepatocyte ferroptosis . Mechanistic studies employing lipid reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) quantification , intracellular Fe ( 2+ ) assays , and western blot analysis revealed that IPAs-induced ferroptosis occurs through an autophagy-dependent pathway . Surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) and molecular docking analyses confirmed direct binding and regulation of transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) by maduramicin . This interaction activates TFEB , subsequently mediating nuclear receptor coactivator 4 ( NCOA4 ) -regulated lysosomal degradation processes that culminate in ferroptosis-mediated hepatotoxicity . Importantly , our findings extend beyond maduramicin , as other IPAs including monensin and salinomycin similarly targeted TFEB , triggering hepatocyte ferroptosis . Crucially , adeno-associated virus serotype 8 ( AAV8 ) -mediated TFEB knockdown in mice conferred protection against IPAs-induced liver injury and attenuated hepatocyte ferroptosis . These findings establish TFEB-mediated NCOA4-dependent ferritinophagy and ferroptosis as central mechanisms in IPAs-induced hepatotoxicity , thereby identifying TFEB as a promising therapeutic target for mitigating IPAs-induced liver damage . This study provides critical insights into the molecular mechanisms of IPAs-induced liver injury and offers a novel strategy for therapeutic intervention .
This study investigates the ferroptosis effects and behavioral changes in mice following 28-day nasal instillation of silver nanoparticles ( AgNPs , 0-50 mg/kg . bw ) , with subsequent observation of recovery effects over a 28-day period . AgNP accumulates differentially in the organs evaluated . However , the hippocampus was an important target . Spatial learning and memory deficits were detected using the Morris Water Maze . Hippocampal neuronal damage was observed , characterized by loss of cellular integrity , cytoplasmic atrophy , and blurred nuclei . These alterations persisted throughout the 28-day recovery period . Lipid peroxidation was triggered by depletion of GSH and elevation of MDA . Disruption of iron homeostasis was mediated through downregulation of TFRC , FTH1 , and FTL protein expression . Ferroptosis activation was confirmed by suppression of GPX4 and SLC7A11 , coupled with upregulation of ACSL4 and COX Additionally , exposure to Ag ( + ) in the amount released from AgNPs ( 50mg/kg ) also resulted in sustained silver accumulation and ferroptosis effects . Beyond nanoparticle-specific toxicity , the study emphasizes the potential adverse effects resulting from the prolonged and gradual release of metal ions from these nanoparticles in vivo . Our study provided experimental evidence and potential clues into the neurotoxicity of metal nanoparticles .
Cell membranes regulate water flow to maintain homeostasis , cell volume , and osmotic balance . Aquaporins ( AQPs ) enable selective water transport , making precise permeability measurements essential for understanding their function . The current methods have limitations , including high resource demands and poor control over membrane properties like bilayer tension . In this study , the droplet interface bilayer ( DIB ) system was used to measure aquaporin water channel activity . Unlike conventional water permeability assays , this method uniquely quantifies lipid bilayer tension by determining droplet internal pressure . This pressure-determined DIB ( PDIB ) method was used to investigate the water permeability of a lipid bilayer reconstituted with Escherichia coli aquaporin Z ( AqpZ ) . Water permeability increased in an AqpZ concentration-dependent manner at bilayer tensions of 2-0 mN/m and was inhibited by mercury ( IC , 340 muM ) . Fluorescence microscopy was performed to visualize and quantify AqpZ molecules , thereby allowing us to derive an approximate estimate of the unitary water permeability . Although this study established the PDIB method and demonstrated its applicability to AqpZ , this technique may also facilitate future investigations on the effects of lipid bilayer tension on aquaporin function and the fundamental mechanisms of water transport across biological membranes .
Food hydrocolloids , derived from natural sources such as plants , algae , and microbes , possess bioactive properties that significantly contribute to cardiovascular health . This review focuses on six key hydrocolloids : alginate , astragalus polysaccharides , carrageenan , fucoidan , lunasin , and psyllium , while also considering other important natural hydrocoloids such as short chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , plant-derived food hydrocolloids , plant-derived gums , plant-derived mucilages , pectin , modified citrus pectin , inulin , naringenin , chia seeds , gelatine , whey protein , casein , microbial exopolysaccharides and gums , ulvan , and laminarin . Alginate , from brown seaweed , aids in cardiac tissue regeneration and repair . Astragalus polysaccharides , from the Astragalus plant , provide antioxidant , anti-inflammatory , and immunomodulatory benefits . Carrageenan , sourced from red seaweed , supports lipid profile balance and heart health . Fucoidan , another brown seaweed derivative , offers antihypertensive and lipid-lowering effects . Lunasin , a peptide found in soybeans , oats , and barley , is known for its cholesterol-lowering properties and anti-inflammatory effects . Psyllium , rich in soluble fiber , helps lower LDL cholesterol and improve overall cardiovascular function . These hydrocolloids , along with other mentioned compounds , are utilized in drug formulations , cosmetics , processed foods , and dietary supplements , enhancing food texture and stability while delivering health benefits . Upon consumption , they can be absorbed into the bloodstream or metabolized by gut microbiota into bioactive metabolites . This review examines their effects on cardiovascular function , highlighting their mechanisms in regulating vascular tone , blood pressure , vascular inflammation , and cardiac function . It consolidates current research , emphasizing the potential of these hydrocolloids and related compounds in the prevention and management of cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) .
Amantadine hydrochloride ( AMH ) is a repurposed moiety of anti-viral category having significant response against Parkinsonism . Nasal route is linked with the direct delivery of drugs to brain through olfactory and trigeminal nerves . The mucociliary clearance is the major obstacle for effective delivery of drugs . The optimized formulation was coated with chitosan ( CH ) to enhance the residence time of formulation in the nasal cavity . The optimized NLCs exhibited particle size of 2 +/- 5 nm , PDI of 131 +/- 019 , zeta potential of -52 +/- 29 mV , EE of 06 +/- 3 % , and nasal flux of 03 +/- 9 mug/cm/h . FTIR analysis revealed AMH-excipient compatibility and encapsulation of AMH into NLCs . XRD analysis confirmed no polymorphic transition in the developed NLCs . Drug release exhibited sustained release of AMH ( 01 +/- 19 % ) up to 24 h . Ex vivo study ( goat nasal mucosa ) showed 22 folds enhanced permeability of AMH from AMH-NLCs in comparison to AMH-Sol . The recommended storage condition for AMH-NLCs was found to be 25 degrees C/60 % RH . AMH-NLCs showed high cell viability ( 23 +/- 49 % ) in comparison to AMH-Sol ( 14 +/- 81 % ) on HO induced PC12 cells at a concentration level of 100 mug/ml . In vivo studies exhibited effectiveness of CH-AMH-NLCs and AMH-NLCs and showed increased response when compared with amantadine solution ( pure form ) and marketed formulation .
The growth and lipid accumulation of skeletal muscle directly affects the yield and meat quality characteristics of beef , which is the result of the interaction between skeletal muscle cells ( SMCs ) and intramuscular adipocytes ( IMAs ) . Therefore , in this study , a co-culture system was used to simulate the in vivo cellular microenvironment , aiming to reveal the interaction patterns between bovine SMCs and IMAs during the proliferation and differentiation stages . The results showed that , compared with SMCs cultured alone , the presence of IMAs in the co-culture system inhibited the expression of proliferation markers such as PCNA , CDK1 , CDK2 , CCNA2 , and CCNE2 in SMCs . This also affected the G1/S phase transition of SMCs , thereby inhibiting their proliferation rate . Meanwhile , the presence of IMAs also inhibited the expression of myogenesis markers such as MYHC , MYOD , MYOG , MYF5 , and MYF6 , thus hindering the myotube formation process of SMCs . Moreover , RNA-seq identified that the key genes APOE , APOD , SOX9 , CAV3 , SMPD3 and EDN2 that mediate the interaction between SMCs and IMAs in the co-culture system . Among that , APOE has a dual effect on myogenesis and lipid accumulation . Interfering with the expression of APOE inhibited the proliferation , differentiation and lipid accumulation of SMCs . Based on these findings , we determined that APOE is a key regulatory factor connecting muscle development and fat accumulation . As a potential intervention target , APOE has great potential and can open up new avenues for improving meat quality and production efficiency .
In recent years , exosomes versatility has prompted their study in the biomedical field for diagnostic , prognostic , and therapeutic applications . Exosomes are bi-lipid small extracellular vesicles ( 30-150 nm ) secreted by various cell types , containing proteins , lipids , and DNA/RNA . They mediate intercellular communication and can influence multiple human physiological and pathological processes . So far , exosome analysis has revealed their role as promising diagnostic tools for human pathologies . Concurrently , artificial intelligence ( AI ) has revolutionised multiple sectors , including medicine , owing to its ability to analyse large datasets and identify complex patterns . The combination of exosome analysis with AI processing has displayed a novel diagnostic approach for cancer and other diseases . This review explores the current applications and prospects of the combined use of exosomes and AI in medicine . Firstly , we provide a biological overview of exosomes and their relevance in cancer biology . Then we explored exosome isolation techniques and Raman spectroscopy/SERS analysis . Finally , we present a summarised essential guide of AI methods for non-experts , emphasising the advancements made in AI applications for exosome characterisation and profiling in oncology research , as well as in other human diseases .
Traumatic optic neuropathy ( TON ) is a prevalent form of optic neuropathy , which is a significant cause of irreversible blindness . To date , effective therapeutic interventions for TON are lacking , highlighting the urgent need for the development of new therapeutic drugs . In this study , a compound library comprising 480 Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) -approved drugs was screened to identify potentially effective therapeutic drugs for TON . We reported that dimercaprol ( DMP ) , an FDA-approved drug , can reduce L-Glutamic acid ( Glu ) and hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) -induced injury in a retinal cell line ( R28 cell ) . Our findings further demonstrated that intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and acrolein , a lipid peroxide , are major contributors to apoptosis-induced cell death in vitro . A series of functional assays revealed that DMP can inhibit apoptosis-induced by Glu via scavenging of intracellular ROS and acrolein in R28 cells and primary cortical neurones . Notably , DMP inhibited retinal ganglion cell complex ( GCC ) thinning and retinal ganglion cell ( RGC ) loss resulting from optic nerve crush ( ONC ) injury in vivo . Moreover , DMP effectively eliminated ONC-induced acrolein in the retina and inhibited RGC apoptosis in vivo . In conclusion , intracellular ROS and acrolein play significant roles in RGC loss in TON , and DMP effectively inhibits RGC apoptosis-induced by the oxidative stress pathway in vitro and in vivo . Therefore , DMP has emerged as a potential new therapeutic drug against TON .
Obesity is a significant health concern , significantly contributing to increased morbidity and mortality by disrupting multiple physiological systems . It is strongly associated with metabolic dysfunctions , including impaired glycemic homeostasis , compromised intestinal barrier integrity , and gut microbiota imbalances , all exacerbating the risk of chronic diseases . The hydroalcoholic extract of acai seeds ( ASE ) , rich in phenolic compounds , has demonstrated beneficial effects on obesity and hyperglycemia ; however , its impacts on gut health and gut-hypothalamus communication remain unclear . This study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of ASE in intestinal and hypothalamic alterations associated with obesity and compare it with Metformin . Male C57BL/6 mice were fed a high-fat or standard diet for 14 weeks . The ASE ( 300mg/Kg/day ) and Metformin ( 300mg/Kg/day ) treatments started in the tenth week until the fourteenth week , totaling four weeks of treatment . Our data show that the treatment with ASE and Metformin reduced body weight , ameliorated lipid profile , hyperglycemia , and plasma hyperleptinemia , and decreased the oxidative damage in the gut by reducing immunostaining of 8-isoprostane and NOX-4 expression , and improved the intestinal parameters and hypothalamic gene expression . Obesity-induced dysbiosis in the HF group was marked by reduced Proteobacteria and elevated LPS plasma levels , which were improved by treatments with ASE and Metformin . These findings suggest that ASE and Metformin are promising strategies to counteract the adverse effects of obesity on intestinal health and gut-hypothalamus communication , though they act through distinct mechanisms . Therefore , we can suggest that ASE is a promising natural product for treating the intestinal alterations associated with obesity .
Interactions between the liver and pancreas are key features of the carbohydrate and lipid homeostasis in healthy and pathological patients . To investigate the crosstalk between the two organs , we have developed an organ-on-chip coculture model derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells . The presence of pancreatic-derived tissue in the culture environment contributed to increase the CYP3A4 activity , the glycogen storage , and the expression of genes related to lipids , bile acids and sterol metabolism in the liver derived tissue . Concomitantly , the presence of liver cells led to increase the C-peptide secretion in pancreas . The coculture with liver modulated the pancreatic differentiation by increasing the activity of important transcription factors ( REST , MAFB , PBX1 ) and by downregulating several hormone encoding genes ( INS , GCG , TTR ) . The liver also stimulated the expression of genes involved in the response to inflammation in pancreas ( via TGFbeta/SMAD pathway ) . In parallel we observed a pancreatic cell reorganization coupled with the activation of the cell proliferation related transcription factor ( SCRT1 ) and the upregulation of cellular remodeling genes ( FLNA , FLNB , FN1 , COL4A5 ) . Finally , the pancreatic lipid genes were also upregulated in presence of the liver tissue . Overall , our results reflect a complex synergy between both tissues . We believe that those results are an encouraging step toward the development of relevant human model using advanced organ on chip technology and stem cells sources .
This study aimed to delineate the protective role of fish oil against alcoholic liver disease ( ALD ) , identify the principal active component between eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA , C20 : 5 n-3 ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA , C22 : 6 n-3 ) , and elucidate the molecular mechanisms . C57BL/6J mice were randomly assigned to receive either an alcohol-fed ( AF ) or pair-fed control ( PF ) diet , enriched with fish oil ( FO ) or corn oil ( CO ) for four weeks . Additionally , a series of in vitro experiments were performed using AML-12 cells to further investigate potential mechanisms . The results showed that plasma levels of alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) were significantly lower in the AF-FO group compared to the AF-CO group , indicating that fish oil alleviated alcohol-induced liver damage . Hepatic antioxidant markers , including glutathione ( GSH ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and catalase ( CAT ) were also higher in the AF-FO group than in the AF-CO group . Transcriptomic analysis revealed FO supplementation significantly affected genes involved in oxidoreductase activity and lipid metabolism pathways , with Retsat being the most up-regulated gene . The in vitro experiments indicated that DHA , but not EPA , markedly increased Retsat expression , cell viability , and the expression of genes related to oxidoreductase activity and lipid metabolism , compared to linoleic acid ( LA , C18 : 2 n-6 ) . Notably , knocking down Retsat abolished the protective effects of DHA . In conclusion , dietary fish oil mitigated chronic alcohol-induced liver injury primarily through DHA by upregulating Retsat and downstream genes associated with oxidoreductase function and lipid metabolism .
The study was designed to explore the impact of fish oil supplement on the brain lipids profile in ApoE-deficient ( ApoE-/- ) mice and wild-type C57BL/6J ( C57 wt ) mice treated with diets containing varying dosage of vitamin E ( VE ) . Compared to C57 wt mice , ApoE-/- mice exhibited increased cortical TC and LDL-C levels , but decreased HDL-C level ( P < 05 ) . The fish oil intervention , combined with low dietary VE intake resulted in increased cortical protein expression of CD36 and PPARgamma in C57 wt mice . PI ( 36 : 5 ) was identified as a significantly different metabolite when compared to the control group in both C57 wt and ApoE-/- mice . The combination of fish oil and varying doses of VE had different effects on the expression of brain lipids and fatty acid transporters in ApoE-/- and C57 wt mice , indicating that ApoE status and dietary VE intake influence the responses of the cerebral lipids profile to fish oil supplementation .
BACKGROUND : Optical flow ratio ( OFR ) has recently been described to accurately compute coronary fractional flow reserve using optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) , yet its prognostic impact remains unclear . The present study aimed to investigate the predictive value of coronary functional assessment , alone and combined with plaque morphology , by OCT . METHODS : In the present study , OFR software was applied to untreated coronary lesions undergoing OCT analysis in the multicenter , international , prospective CLIMA study . The primary endpoint was target-vessel failure ( TVF ) at 1 year , defined as a composite of cardiac death , target-vessel myocardial infarction ( TV-MI ) or target-vessel revascularization ( TVR ) . The secondary endpoint was a composite of cardiac death or target segment MI . RESULTS : Overall , 983 patients were included ( median age 66 years , 8 % women ) . Lesions with OFR </=80 ( n = 120 ) showed more frequently a minimum lumen area < 5 mm2 ( p < 001 ) , a thin-cap fibroatheroma ( TCFA ) ( p = 023 ) and a large lipid arc >180 degrees ( p = 001 ) as compared to OFR-preserved lesions . TVF was significantly more frequent in patients with versus without OFR-detected flow-limiting lesions ( 8 % and 8 % ; HR 25 , 95 %CI 21-21 ) . This association was directionally consistent for TV-MI and TVR . Patients with both TCFA and impaired OFR lesions were at the highest risk of the primary ( HR 47 , 95 %CI 79-02 ) and secondary endpoint ( HR 78 , 95 %CI 92-43 ) . CONCLUSIONS : The presence of OFR-detected flow limitation was associated with highrisk morphological features and a higher incidence of adverse events . The combined presence of TCFA and OFR-derived flow limitation was associated with the highest incidence of primary and secondary endpoints .
The rapid advancement of RNA-based therapeutics , particularly in the wake of COVID-19 vaccine success , has prompted significant research into optimizing RNA delivery mechanisms . This study evaluates the NeoLNP ( TM ) RNA Transfection Kit developed by Scindy Pharmaceutical , which utilizes lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) for efficient RNA encapsulation and delivery . We systematically investigate various parameters affecting transfection efficiency , including RNA concentration , RNA/LNP volume ratios , mixing techniques , LNP stability , and culture media . Our results demonstrate that the optimal RNA concentration for transfection efficiency is around 40-60 ng/microL , with a 1 : 75-1 : 1 RNA-to-LNP ratio yielding the highest protein expression . Additionally , we find that gentle mixing techniques outperform harsher methods , and the stability of LNP-RNA complexes significantly influences transfection outcomes . This research provides practical guidelines for enhancing RNA transfection efficiency , paving the way for more effective RNA therapeutics .
N-acyl phosphatidylethanolamine-hydrolyzing phospholipase D ( NAPE-PLD ) hydrolyzes phosphatidylethanolamines ( PE ) where the headgroup nitrogen has been enzymatically modified with acyl chains of four carbons or longer ( N-acyl-PEs or NAPEs ) . The nitrogen headgroup of PE can also be non-enzymatically modified by reactive lipid aldehydes , thus forming N-aldehyde modified-PEs ( NALPEs ) . Some NALPEs such as N-carboxyacyl-PEs are linked to PE via amide bonds similar to NAPEs , but others are linked by imine , pyrrole , or lactam moieties . Whether NAPE-PLD can hydrolyze NALPEs was unknown . We therefore characterized the major NALPE species formed during lipid peroxidation of arachidonic acid and linoleic acid and generated various NALPEs for characterization of their sensitivity to NAPE-PLD hydrolysis by reacting synthesized aldehydes with PE . We found that NAPE-PLD could act on NALPEs of various lengths and linkage types including those derived from PE modified by malondialdehyde ( N-MDA-PE ) , 4-hydroxynonenal ( N-HNE-PE ) , 4-oxo-nonenal ( N-ONE-PE ) , 9-keto-12-oxo-dodecenoic acid ( N-KODA-PE ) , and 15-E-isolevuglandin ( N-IsoLG-PE ) . To assess the relative preference of NAPE-PLD for various NALPEs versus its canonical NAPE substrates , we generated a substrate mixture containing roughly equimolar concentrations of seven NALPEs as well as two NAPEs ( N-palmitoyl-PE and N-linoleoyl-PE ) and measured their rate of hydrolysis . Several NALPE species , including the N-HNE-PE pyrrole species , were hydrolyzed at a similar rate as N-linoleoyl-PE and many of the other NALPEs showed intermediate rates of hydrolysis . These results significantly expand the substrate repertoire of NAPE-PLD and suggest that it may play an important role in clearing products of lipid peroxidation in addition to its established role in the biosynthesis of N-acyl-ethanolamines .
INTRODUCTION : Calcific aortic valve stenosis ( CAVS ) is a disease associated with significant morbidity and mortality in the aging population . Recently , bile acids have been shown to play a significant role in many disease processes , and untargeted metabolomic analyses of CAVS patient valves has shown a disrupted bile acid pathway . AIM : We aimed to understand the changes in human valvular bile acids in relation to CAVS severity . METHODS : A total of 100 human aortic valves were collected from patients undergoing aortic valve replacement surgery . Bile acids were quantified by ultrahigh performance liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry . RESULTS : Patients with mild aortic stenosis ( AS ) showed a distinct valvular bile acid composition compared to moderate and severe AS groups , with five bile acids being significantly elevated in patients with moderate and severe AS . These included norcholic , nordeoxycholic , glycodeoxycholic , glycocholic and taurodeoxycholic acid . When classified by calcification score , five species were significantly different between mild and severe AS groups ; four bile acids were similar when stratified based on AS severity . Using k means clustering we were able to distinguish valve severity by their bile acid composition . Grouping bile acids by conjugation and by primary versus secondary revealed that conjugated primary and secondary bile acids were significantly increased in stenotic valves compared to the mild AS group . CONCLUSION : Conjugated bile acids are significantly elevated in the valvular tissue of patients with severe calcific aortic stenosis . These findings suggest a potential link between liverand gut microbiome physiologyand bile acid pathways in contributing to the pathophysiology of valvular stenosis .
BACKGROUND : Lifestyle factors have been widely associated with various major chronic diseases ( MCDs ) and life expectancy . OBJECTIVES : Our study aimed to investigate the relationship of healthy lifestyle with the odds of healthy aging and the mediating role of plasma proteins . METHODS : We included 26 , 774 participants from UK Biobank aged 64 years or older who were free of 15 MCDs at baseline . Healthy aging was defined as survival to age 80 without developing MCDs at the end of follow-up . According to a composite score of seven lifestyle factors , the participants were grouped as having healthy ( 6 or 7 healthy lifestyle factors ) , intermediate ( 3-5 healthy lifestyle factors ) , or unhealthy ( 0-2 healthy lifestyle factors ) lifestyles . Multivariable logistic regression models were used to evaluate the association of lifestyle categories with the odds of healthy aging . In a subsample ( n = 3231 ) , proteomic signatures of healthy lifestyle were identified and their potential mediation on the relationship of healthy lifestyle with healthy aging were assessed . RESULTS : A total of 16 , 269 participants achieved healthy aging . Compared to an unhealthy lifestyle , a healthy lifestyle was associated with 117% ( 95% CI : 95%-141% ) higher odds of healthy aging , as well as lower risks of all-cause mortality and various MCDs . There were 879 plasma proteins associated with healthy lifestyle , largely involving the pathways associated with immune-inflammatory responses and lipid metabolism and atherosclerosis . There were 26 proteins which had the strongest correlations with healthy lifestyle ( absolute value of effect size >15 ) , among which 13 proteins were found to significantly explain 9% to 7% of the relationship between healthy lifestyle and healthy aging . Fatty acid-binding protein 4 , adrenomedullin , and hepatocyte growth factor were the leading mediators . CONCLUSIONS : A healthy lifestyle is associated with substantially higher odds of healthy aging , potentially through the regulation of specific circulating proteins .
While the tumor-suppressive functions of p53 are well established , the role of its homolog , TAp73 , in cancer remains incompletely characterized and is a subject of active investigation . In this study , we observed downregulation of TAp73 protein expression in cervical cancer tissues , which significantly correlated with adverse clinical outcomes . Through co-expression network analysis , we identified functional associations between TAp73 and key pathways involved in lipid metabolism and redox homeostasis-both critical regulators of ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of programmed cell death mediated by lipid peroxidation . Mechanistically , we demonstrate that TAp73 promotes ferroptosis by directly upregulating the transcription of beta-transducin repeat-containing protein ( beta-TRCP ) , thereby facilitating the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) , a master regulator of cellular antioxidant defenses . This TAp73-mediated suppression of NRF2 activity renders cells more susceptible to ferroptotic death . Furthermore , TAp73 expression is transcriptionally induced during ferroptosis through the combined inactivation of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 ( EZH2 ) , a core component of polycomb repressive complex 2 , and activation of E2F transcription factor 1 ( E2F1 ) . Notably , pharmacological inhibition of EZH2 synergized with sulfasalazine ( SAS ) to enhance ferroptosis in vivo , an effect largely dependent on TAp Together , these findings delineate a novel ferroptosis regulatory axis-EZH2/TAp73/beta-TRCP/NRF2-and highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for cervical cancer intervention .
Three engineered Synechocystis sp . PCC6803 strains , the OEphaAB ( syn ) ( OE ) strain , HEphaCAB ( cn ) ( HE ) strain , and HOphaAB ( syn ) -phaCAB ( cn ) ( HO ) strain , were constructed by overexpressing native and/or exogenous gene fragments to enhance the PHB synthesis . These strains exhibited a slight reduction in growth compared to the wild-type ( WT ) algae . The addition of high-concentration NaHCO improved this situation , and the highest PHB content ( 51% ) in the HO strain increased by 8-fold compared to the WT algae . Other metabolite contents in engineered strains also showed various changes relative to the WT algal . NaHCO further reduced the protein , glycogen , and lipid contents . Additionally , under the high light combined with minimum nutrient conditions , NaHCO stimulated the PHB highly accumulation ( the content up to 72% ) in the HO strain . Collectively , this study initially explored the potential of engineering algal strains through the combined overexpression of PHB synthetase to produce PHB from inorganic carbon sources under high-efficiency induction conditions . A new insight into how cyanobacteria can produce PHB and other high-value products from inorganic carbon sources was presented .
Fexaramine , a gut-restricted farnesoid X receptor ( FXR ) agonist , promotes glucose and lipid homeostasis , improves insulin sensitivity , promotes white adipose tissue browning , and stimulates nonshivering thermogenesis . Enhancement in energy expenditure due to an increase in amount of energy burned by brown and ' beige ' adipocytes results in subsequent weight loss . Fexaramine is poorly absorbed into circulation when delivered orally , which limits systemic FXR activation and toxicity . An increase in beta3-adrenoceptor signaling , activation of Takeda G protein-coupled receptor 5/glucagon-like peptide-1 ( TGR5/GLP-1 ) signaling , and induction of fibroblast growth factor ( FGF ) -19/FGF-15 play crucial roles in fexaramine metabolic actions . Intestinal FXR activation is a promising , potentially safe approach for treating obesity and metabolic syndrome .
The free fatty acid receptor 1 ( FFAR1 ) is a transmembrane G-protein coupled receptor that mediates the metabolic and insulinotropic effects of endogenous free fatty acids in pancreatic cells while also exerting neuro-regulatory effects in the brain . The complexity of FFAR1 derives from its multiple binding sites and the absence of conventional activation motifs observed in class A GPCRs . This study uses molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the molecular mechanisms that underpin endogenous signaling and allosteric regulation in the FFAR We investigated and compared three ligand-bound states and the APO state . The ligand-bound simulations included FFAR1 in complex with gamma-linolenic acid , FFAR1 in complex with gamma-linolenic acid and TAK875 , and a fully activated FFAR1 bundle complexed with docosahexaenoic acid and G-protein . The results highlight distinct protein contact fingerprints and dynamics in the ligand-bound states relative to the APO state . While ligand binding , in the absence of stabilizing G-protein , destabilizes the intracellular domain of the receptor , the second extracellular loop exhibits greater stability and salt bridge contact with the transmembrane domain . Notably , simulations of FFAR1 complexed with gamma-linolenic acid , bound at the intracellular domain , revealed stable interactions between gamma-linolenic acid and the receptor , as well as similar activation fingerprints when compared to FFAR1 in complex with docosahexaenoic acid and Gq . This suggests an effective allosteric regulation of the receptor following gamma-linolenic acid binding to the intracellular domain . Finally , a set of hydrophobic amino acid residues at the intracellular and extracellular domains appears to function as potential rotameric switches , facilitating water-mediated receptor activation .
The stingless bee Partamona helleri plays a crucial role in pollinating both native and cultivated plants . However , the intensive use of pesticides in agriculture are contributing to the decline of its population . Thiamethoxam , a systemic neonicotinoid insecticide , acts on the nervous system , however , it can also affect other non-target insect organs . This study evaluated the sublethal effects of chronic oral exposure to a thiamethoxam formulation on the fat body and Malpighian tubules in P . helleri workers . Bees were exposed orally for seven days to sublethal concentration of thiamethoxam ( 09ngg ( -1 ) ) . The results revealed histopathological alterations in the fat body and Malpighian tubules , including changes in protein and carbohydrate reserves , nuclear pyknosis , cytoplasmic vacuolization , and affect lipid peroxidation in P . helleri . These findings indicate that chronic exposure of P . helleri workers to the residual concentration of thiamethoxam found in the field elicits a detoxification response in the fat body and Malpighian tubules ; however , the previously reported high mortality rate suggests that these physiological responses are insufficient to mitigate the toxic effects of thiamethoxam on this pollinator .
Lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) have enabled the vaccine and therapeutic use of RNA molecules . To fully exploit the wide therapeutic potential of these types of therapies , a better understanding of the physicochemical properties-activity relationship for LNPs carrying RNA-based therapies is needed . The apparent pKa ( pKa ( A ) ) of the instrumental ionizable lipids ( ILs ) in siRNA- and mRNA-loaded LNPs is one of the few physicochemical parameters that have been identified as critical for high in vivo potency . Numerous data have shown that siRNA- and mRNA-LNPs are typically potent within a narrow pKa ( A ) range of ILs - pKa ( A ) values derived from the TNS assay , which likely , for the most part , probes ILs at the LNP surface . Interestingly , these data have also revealed a broad spectrum of potencies across ILs within this optimal range . Here , we discuss the pKa ( A ) concept , including factors influencing this parameter , such as co-lipids and nucleic acid molecules surrounding the ILs ; why it is a critical parameter ; how to measure the pKa ( A ) of ILs located differently in LNPs and potential complications associated with this ; and the recent use of computational methods to determine the pKa ( A ) value of ILs in LNPs . Based on the environmental impact on the pKa ( A ) of ILs , it seems likely that ILs located in the LNP surface and core , either bound or unbound to mRNA , exhibit different pKa ( A ) values ( or at least exhibit different propensities to be protonated ) . We speculate whether the internal dynamic and structural packing of the ILs sensitive to pH may also be critical to facilitate efficient endosomal escape of nucleic acid payloads . These internal features may explain some of the variability in potencies among ILs within the optimal TNS-derived pKa ( A ) range . It would be rather superficial to believe that only the outside of the LNPs matters .
Genetic studies can offer powerful insights for the development of disease-modifying therapies for Alzheimer ' s disease . Protective genetic variants that delay the onset of cognitive impairment have been found in people with sporadic Alzheimer ' s disease and in carriers of mutations that usually cause autosomal-dominant Alzheimer ' s disease in mid-life . The study of families who carry autosomal dominant mutations provides a unique opportunity to uncover genetic modifiers of disease progression , including rare variants in genes such as APOE and RELN . Understanding how these variants confer protection can help identify the biological pathways that contribute to cognitive resilience , such as the heparan-sulphate proteoglycan-APOE receptor pathway , the TREM-2-driven signalling pathways in the microglia , and phagocytosis . Therapies able to replicate the beneficial effects of these natural defences could provide novel strategies for slowing or preventing the progression of Alzheimer ' s disease .
The mammalian liver exhibits remarkable regenerative capabilities after injury or resection . Central to this process is the precise modulation of gene expression , driven by changes in chromatin structure and the temporal activation of distal regulatory elements . In this study , we integrated chromatin accessibility and transcriptomic data after partial hepatectomy in mice . We show that the expression of crucial regeneration genes is orchestrated by a diverse array of cis-regulatory elements , including regeneration-specific enhancers and enhancers repurposed from various developmental stages . These enhancers collaborate to activate the transcriptional programs required for hepatocyte priming and proliferation , with their activity initially regulated by the activator protein-1 ( AP-1 ) complex and ATF3 , and subsequently by nuclear factor erythroid 2 ( NFE2 ) -related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) during proliferation . Our results also indicate that hepatic regeneration involves the repression of enhancers regulating liver-specific metabolic functions , particularly those involved in lipid metabolism . This study provides a genome-wide atlas of enhancer-gene interactions , offering new insights into the regulatory mechanisms underlying liver regeneration .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Recent evidence suggests that gut microbiota has a potential role in the pathophysiology of obesity and other cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk factors , including hypertension , dyslipidemia , and type 2 diabetes . However , clinical trials evaluating the effects of probiotics supplementation on these outcomes have found inconsistent results , probably due to the wide heterogeneity in trial designs . In addition , there is a lack of studies investigating whether probiotics can enhance the beneficial effects of caloric restriction in individuals with increased risk of CVD as individuals with hypertension and excess body adiposity . Thus , the aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of multi-strain probiotics supplementation on body adiposity , glycemic homeostasis , lipid profile , and serum adipokine levels in individuals with hypertension and excess body weight following an energy restricted diet . METHODS : A randomized , double-blind , placebo controlled clinical trial was conducted for 12 weeks . Were included 66 individuals aged between 40 and 65 years ; both sexes ; body mass index ( BMI ) >/= 25 and < 40 kg/m and diagnosis of hypertension . Were excluded smokers ; individuals using probiotics , prebiotics , symbiotics and antibiotics in the last 3 months ; presenting diabetes , chronic kidney disease or liver failure ; and pregnant and lactating women . Participants were allocated into 2 groups : group with supplementation of 8 probiotic strains in capsules ( 3 x 10 CFU/day ) or control group ( placebo capsules ) . Both groups followed a low-calorie diet . Participants underwent anthropometric , body composition ( dual-energy radiological absorptiometry ) and biochemical ( glucose metabolism , lipid profile , adiponectin , and leptin ) evaluation at baseline and at the end of the study . RESULTS : After 12 weeks of intervention , the probiotics group presented : a ) reduction of body weight , BMI , circumferences of waist , hip and neck and waist-to-height ratio ; b ) decrease in total fat mass ( kg ) ; and c ) reduction of glycated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) . In the control group , it was observed : a ) significant reduction in all anthropometric variables ; b ) significant reduction in total fat mass ( kg and % ) , trunk fat mass ( kg ) , visceral fat and load capacity index . In the comparison between groups , there was a higher decrease in HbA1c in the probiotics group ( p < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Multi-strain probiotics supplementation associated with energy restriction in individuals with excess body weight and hypertension promoted a significant improvement in glucose homeostasis assessed by HbA1c . The clinical trial was registered at www . ensaiosclinicos . gov . br : RBR-7jw4ry .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is a significant public health concern , with macrophage phenotypes implicated in its progression . Although extensive inflammation-suppressing circular RNA ( ciR-EIS , formerly named as hsa_circ_0008882 ) has been implicated in inflammation regulation , its role in macrophage polarization within the context of MASH remains unexplored . This study aimed to clarify the effect of ciR-EIS on macrophage polarization in MASH . METHODS : Immunofluorescence-fluorescence in situ hybridization was used to evaluate the localization of ciR-EIS in human liver sections . THP-1-derived macrophages ( TDMs ) were utilized to study ciR-EIS functions in vitro . Flow cytometry and RT-qPCR were employed to evaluate macrophage polarization after transfection . Bodipy assay was used to measure lipid buildup in HepG2 cells . Immunohistochemistry was used to confirm liver insulin-like growth factor 1 ( IGF1 ) expression . Retrospective clinical records were analyzed to examine the association between cir-EIS , IGF1 , and MASH . RESULTS : CiR-EIS was downregulated in patients with MASH and colocalized with the macrophage marker CD CiR-EIS and mitochondrially encoded NADH dehydrogenase 5 ( MT-ND5 ) were downregulated in M1 macrophages and upregulated in M2 macrophages . TDM-derived supernatants overexpressed ciR-EIS , significantly reducing HepG2 lipid deposition and inhibiting LX2 proliferation . Overexpression of ciR-EIS in TDMs significantly inhibited M1 macrophage markers CD86 , interleukin-1 beta , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha while enhancing M2 macrophage markers CD163 and CD CiR-EIS regulated macrophage polarization in a manner involving the miR-548m/IGF1 axis . Serum IGF1 levels were positively correlated with ciR-EIS , and both of them were notably reduced in patients with MASH and inversely correlated with APRI and FIB-4 scores . CONCLUSIONS : CiR-EIS regulates macrophage polarization in a manner involving the miR-548/IGF1 axis , thereby reducing hepatocyte lipid accumulation and stellate cell proliferation in MASH . It demonstrates potential as a diagnostic marker and therapeutic target for MASH .
Phosphoglucomutase-3 ( PGM3 ) is an enzyme that plays a pivotal role in glycosylation , the process of adding glycan sugars to other glycans , proteins , or lipids . It plays a crucial role in many physiological functions and pathological conditions . PGM3 has a functional variant , c . 1396G > A ( rs473267 ) . Our previous research indicated that this polymorphism may be associated with the development of diabetic nephropathy and diabetic neuropathy in a Japanese population . In this study , we developed a fluorescence melting curve analysis ( FMCA ) using a TaqMan probe to identify the c . 1396G > A of PGM The validity of this method was ascertained using 67 subjects of Mexican ancestry from the 1000 Genomes Project . The present FMCA method was validated because the results obtained in the FMCA were in perfect agreement with the database sequence results of 67 subjects . The FMCA method is a valuable tool for investigating the association between the c . 1396G > A polymorphism in PGM3 and various pathological conditions across diverse populations .
BACKGROUND : Previous studies have found that exposure to fine particulate matter ( PM ( 5 ) ) is associated with metabolic alterations , but the specific effects of its composition on metabolic changes remain unclear . OBJECTIVE : To identify key metabolites associated with PM ( 5 ) exposure and its elemental components , with validation through animal experiments . METHODS : A total of 112 healthy older adults were enrolled in the cross-sectional study between winter 2020 and summer Individual PM ( 5 ) exposure levels were quantified by personal samplers , and ten trace elements in PM ( 5 ) were analyzed using inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry ( ICP-MS ) . Animal experiments were conducted on male rats to validate the associations between PM ( 5 ) , its elemental composition , and metabolomic changes . Fasting venous blood samples from participants and rat heart blood were collected for non-targeted metabolomic analysis using Orthogonal Projections to Latent Structures-Discriminant Analysis ( OPLS-DA ) and pathway enrichment analysis via MetaboAnalyst RESULTS : PM ( 5 ) exposure was significantly associated with changes in 218 plasma metabolites ( p < 05 ) . Non-targeted metabolomic analysis identified 29 and 7 metabolic pathways associated with PM ( 5 ) exposure and trace elements , respectively , primarily associated with lipid metabolism , including linoleic acid metabolism . Significant overlaps of metabolomic pathways were observed in chromium ( Cr ) and PM ( 5 ) . A total of 29 human metabolic pathways affected by PM ( 5 ) exposure were identified in the human study , of which 17 common to both humans and rats , including glycerophospholipid metabolism . These metabolites and pathways are related to metabolic disorders , with PM ( 5 ) -related metabolites showing associations with diseases like diabetes ( P = 049 ) . CONCLUSIONS : These findings highlight the important role of Cr in PM ( 5 ) -induced metabolic changes , emphasizing the need to monitor specific PM ( 5 ) components for assessing health risks and informing public health policies .
BACKGROUND : Hyperlipidemia has been linked to cognitive impairment ( CogI ) caused by Alzheimer ' s disease and vascular disease . Nevertheless the relationship between long-term trajectories of serum lipids and the risk of developing CogI is still lacking . METHODS : Research enrolled participants aged 40 years or older in the suburbs of Xi ' an , China and conducted follow-ups every two years from 2014 to Fasting serum lipid ( including total cholesterol , TC ; triglyceride , TG ; high density lipoprotein , HDL-c ; low density lipoprotein , LDL-c ) levels were tested . Those with normal cognition at baseline and diagnosed with MCI or dementia during follow-up were defined as having new-onset CogI . We used group-based trajectory model for serum lipid trajectory classification , and multivariable logistic regression models to investigate the relationship between long-term serum lipids trajectories and CogI . RESULTS : Our final sample included 1268 participants . There were 33 ( 6% ) new-onset CogI of whom 20 met the criteria for MCI and 13 met the criteria for dementia during the follow-up . Trajectories of TC and LDL-c were divided into three categories ( low , medium and high level ) respectively ; lgTG and HDL-c were divided into low and high level respectively . Univariate analysis showed that the incidence rate of CogI in low TC group ( 4% ) or high TC group ( 3% ) was higher than that in medium TC group ( 5% ) . Multivariable logistic regression analysis showed that compared to medium level , the risk of developing CogI was increased for both low TC level ( OR=679 [95% CI , 140-295] ) and high TC level ( OR=828 [95% CI , 927-624] ) . Other lipid trajectory levels were not associated with the risk of developing CogI . CONCLUSIONS : Long-term low or high TC levels may be a predictive factor for the risk of CogI .
Salmonella Typhimurium ( S . Typhimurium ) is a major contributor responsible for food contamination and foodborne illnesses . In this study , the antibacterial activity of natural compound carvacrol ( CAR ) against S . Typhimurium were evaluated , and the combined inhibitory effects of CAR and blue light-405 nm ( BL-405 nm ) were also assessed for chicken meat preservation . CAR showed efficient antibacterial activity with a minimal inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) at 5 mg/mL . CAR at 2MIC significantly compromised bacterial membrane integrity , resulting in intracellular content leakage . The combined effect of CAR and BL-405 nm achieved a remarkable 62 log CFU/mL reduction in S . Typhimurium viability . The antibacterial mechanism investigations demonstrated that BL-405 nm and CAR triggered the cell oxidative stress by producing highly reactive oxygen species , such as reactive hydroxyl radicals ( OH ) , leading to cellular destruction and ultimately resulting in cell death . In practical application test , CAR combined with BL-405 nm treatment effectively extended chicken meat shelf life by maintaining moisture content , stabilizing pH , preserving color and texture , and inhibiting microbial growth and lipid oxidation . The study provided novel insights into the antibacterial mechanisms of CAR combined with BL-405 nm against S . Typhimurium , which could offer a new strategy for extending the shelf life of poultry meat .
Ceiling culture-derived preadipocytes ( ccdPAs ) are fibroblast-like cells believed to originate from mature adipocytes after the loss of lipid droplets . Unlike adipose-derived stem cells ( ASCs ) , which are heterogeneous , ccdPAs are considered a more homogeneous population . However , their response to adipogenic differentiation stimuli at the single-cell level has not been fully characterized . In this study , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) and epigenetic analyses to investigate early transcriptomic changes following adipogenic induction in ASCs and ccdPAs . scRNA-seq revealed that , in addition to preadipocytes/adipocytes , a substantial population of regulatory or structural cells , characterized by the expression of genes associated with extracellular matrix organization , structural support , and cell-cell interactions , such as F3 and MGP , emerged in both ASCs and ccdPAs . Notably , ATOH8 , a transcription factor with limited prior characterization in adipogenesis , showed markedly higher expression in ccdPAs than in ASCs . This was supported by epigenetic analyses demonstrating lower CpG methylation and higher H3K4me3 levels at the ATOH8 locus in ccdPAs . Our findings suggest that adipogenic induction of ccdPAs generates diverse cell populations . This study provides the first single-cell level insight into the adipogenic response of primary cultured human ccdPAs .
l-aspartate is a nonessential amino acid involving tricarboxylic acid cycle , amplifying hepatic l-aspartate level is a practicable and promising therapeutic approach in treating metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) and liver injury-induced liver fibrosis . However , fewer compounds have been reported to increase hepatic l-aspartate level for ameliorating MASLD in vivo . Asparagine synthetase ( ASNS ) catalyzes the conversion of l-aspartate into asparagine , here , we identified a natural molecule , named 1 , 2 , 3 , 4 , 6-O-Pentagalloylglucose ( PGG ) , from the compound library ( approximately 7133 compounds ) using the free energy perturbation ( FEP ) -based virtual screening strategy . PGG showed strong binding affinity ( K ( D ) = 8 muM ) against recombinant human ASNS and inhibited its enzymatic activity ( IC = 1 muM ) , subsequently increased cellular l-aspartate level and activated LKB1/AMPK metabolic axis and enhanced lipid oxidation , leading to lipid accumulation suppression in hepatocytes . Correspondingly , treating PGG ( 10 mg/kg/per 2 days , i . p . ) in mice for 6 weeks efficiently corrected high-fat and high-cholesterol ( HFC ) diet induced bodyweight gained , glucose tolerance impairment , insulin resistance , and all the typical manifestations of MASLD , including hepatic steatosis , liver injury , and inflammation . These therapeutics were associated with decreases in ASNS expression level in liver , leading to increases in hepatic l-aspartate level , activation of LKB1/AMPK axis , and improvement of mitochondrial oxidation . These data indicate that increasing hepatic l-aspartate level would be a promising therapeutic strategy in treating MASLD , and ASNS would be a novel target for developing anti-MASLD agents .
Lipid oxidation reduces frying oil shelf life , which can be mitigated by adding antioxidants . Repeated use of frying oil can lead to the formation of harmful compounds , posing health risks for consumers . This study evaluated Kamut ( R ) wheat bran extract ( KWBE ) as a natural antioxidant to improve the oxidative stability of sunflower oil at frying temperatures ( 180 degrees C ) . KWBE was compared with TBHQ , and natural antioxidants like trans-ferulic acid , quercetin , and p-coumaric acid . Antioxidant efficacy was determined using peroxide value , conjugated dienes/trienes content , HPLC-HRMS and H NMR spectroscopy . KWBE was more effective than TBHQ in reducing the degradation of unsaturated acyl groups and slowing the formation of oxidation products . Aldehydic signals in KWBE-fortified oil had lower intensities than TBHQ and the control , while conjugated dienes and trienes levels remained lower throughout the heating process . The results suggest KWBE as a promising natural alternative to synthetic antioxidants for enhancing frying oil stability and reducing lipid oxidation .
Hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) plays a crucial role in maintaining a chemical and ecological equilibrium in aquatic environments . However , there is still a lack of comprehensive understanding regarding the potential drivers of HO production . This study investigates the source and potential drivers of HO production in natural aquatic systems , revealing its concentrations as a synergistic outcome of photochemical and biological processes , and establishes a multiparameter predictive framework . By analyzing dissolved organic matter ( DOM ) extracted from four lakes ( Fan Shen , Cai Yun , Jiu Long , Bao Sheng ) through water quality parameters , spectral characteristics , and molecular composition , combined with artificial solar irradiation experiments , we demonstrate that DOM abundance and low-molecular-weight components promoted photochemical HO generation via photosensitized reactions , while total phosphorus ( TP ) suppresses photochemical production through organophosphorus-HO interactions . Biological assays with Microcystis aeruginosa , non-toxic Microcystis spp , and Chlorella vulgaris reveal that proteins-/lipids-rich DOM significantly elevates biogenic HO generation by phytoplankton species . Chlorella vulgaris which exhibited the highest ability to generate HO was the most resilient to oxidative stress caused by HO . Combined photochemical-biogenic ( P&B ) experiments confirmed that synergistic HO concentrations ( combined P&B HO ) were lower than the biogenic HO concentrations due to algae experiencing oxidative stress from photochemical HO and activating its decomposition capacity , with the Variance Partitioning Analysis ( VPA ) identifying that HO production was influence by a combination of water quality , DOM spectral traits and biological factor ( 45-45 % ) , which was higher than the influence of individual factors ( 21-07 % ) . A multiple multiparameter regression model incorporating TOC , E2/E3 , TP , and microbial-derived tryptophan ( C2 ) achieves robust HO prediction across eight lakes . By elucidating the DOM-algae mechanistic interplay governing HO dynamics and modeling HO concentrations , our study establishes an operationalized framework for assessing oxidative stress and predicting algal blooms , providing critical tools to the early warning of algal bloom events in aquatic ecosystems .
BACKGROUND : Targeting metabolic disorders has emerged as a promising therapeutic strategy in the treatment of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) . 18beta-glycyrrhetinic acid ( 18beta-GA ) is known for its metabolic regulatory and antioxidant effects in various diseases . However , the precise effects and underlying mechanisms of 18beta-GA on CKD remain unclear . PURPOSE : This study aims to evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of 18beta-GA on CKD and to identify the molecular targets of 18beta-GA with a particular emphasis on its role in metabolic regulation . STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS : A high-fat diet-induced CKD model was established to investigate the influence of 18beta-GA on lipid metabolic disorders , cellular senescence and fibrosis in the kidneys . Co-immunoprecipitation was performed to investigate the impact of 18beta-GA on the interaction between transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) and sirtuin 1 ( SIRT1 ) . Additionally , network pharmacology and molecular docking analyses were conducted to identify the specific target proteins of 18beta-GA . RESULTS : 18beta-GA alleviated renal lipid accumulation , tubular cell senescence and renal interstitial fibrosis in CKD mice . Treatment with 18beta-GA largely restored mitochondrial function and attenuated intracellular lipotoxicity and associated cellular senescence by promoting lipophagy in renal tubular cells . Mechanistically , 18beta-GA acting as a partial antagonist of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) enhanced lipophagy through SIRT1-mediated nuclear translocation of TFEB which induced the expression of microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 ( LC3 ) . CONCLUSION : Our findings demonstrate that 18beta-GA , functioning as a partial antagonist of PPARgamma , counteracts CKD progression by activating the SIRT1-TFEB-LC3 signaling axis-mediated lipophagy and thus uncover a novel mechanism by which 18beta-GA improves renal lipid metabolism disorders and exerts renoprotective effects . These results highlight the potential of 18beta-GA as a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment and prevention of CKD .
OBJECTIVES : Heart disease is a leading cause of death worldwide , with its prevalence exacerbated by inadequate nutritional intake . Particularly concerning is the elevated risk induced by imbalanced nutrition during development , which can impact lifelong heart health . Recent research has underscored mitochondrial dysregulation as a pivotal mechanism driving the enduring consequences of nutritional excess . Building upon previous findings wherein a maternal high-fat diet ( HFD ) led to cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis , our current study aimed to evaluate the impact of such a challenge on myocardial mitochondrial function . METHODS : Female rats were fed a chow diet or HFD during gestation and lactation . The hearts of male offspring were analyzed at adulthood . Mitochondrial DNA abundance was evaluated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction . Proteins involved in mitochondrial biogenesis , fusion , fission , damage to the electron transport chain , metabolism , cell death , proliferation , and inflammation were measured by western blot . Mitochondrial clearance was evaluated by the measurement of mitophagy markers on isolated mitochondria . Lipids were visualized by histologic approaches . RESULTS : We detected decreased cardiac mitochondrial fission factor and mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate synthase beta subunit and increased Parkin , pro-tumor necrosis factor alpha , and pro-interleukin 1 beta protein levels associated with decreased microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B light chain 3B levels in cardiac mitochondrial fraction , with a tendency for increased Oil Red O staining in the adult hearts of male offspring exposed to HFD . CONCLUSIONS : Maternal exposure to HFD enhanced mitochondrial damage and impaired fission and clearance in offspring hearts at adulthood . These alterations were associated with altered expression of proteins involved in the mitochondrial electron transport chain coupled with a propensity for increased fatty acid accumulation and elevated proinflammatory markers .
The polarity of lipid droplets ( LDs ) is a key indicator of their state and function , playing a crucial regulatory role in diverse biological processes . However , aberrant changes in LDs polarity can disrupt lipid metabolism , resulting in LDs dysfunction and contributing to the development of various diseases , such as obesity , fatty liver and diabetes . Consequently , it is imperative to monitor and track changes in LDs polarity within organisms . Herein , we constructed a D-pi-A structure fluorescence probe HAB , using a phenothiazine ( PTZ ) derivative as electron donor and 4-pyridine-acetonitrile as electron acceptor . This probe accurately monitored the polarity of LDs through the intramolecular charge transfer ( ICT ) mechanism . Especially , probe HAB exhibited high specificity and sensitivity towards polarity , a significant Stokes shift , and the maximum emission wavelength falling within the near infrared ( NIR ) region . Within a certain range , both the maximum emission intensity and the maximum emission wavelength of probe HAB exhibited a strong linear correlation with the polarity parameters ( Deltaf ) . Furthermore , HAB displayed minimal cytotoxicity and enabled wash-free imaging . The probe has high specificity for LDs and could effectively detect the formation and dynamic behavior of LDs . In addition , it successfully monitored changes in LDs polarity under conditions of ferroptosis and anticancer drug therapy . These findings underscore its significant potential for diagnosing non-alcoholic fatty liver disease and tumors , thereby highlighting its value in both disease diagnosis and biological research .
Per ( poly ) fluoroalkyl substances ( PFASs ) are persistent pollutants with significant environmental risks . However , their partitioning behavior and ecological impacts under dynamic hydrological conditions remain unclear . Our study examined PFAS release , transport , bioaccumulation , and rhizosphere microenvironment responses under submerge-emerge alternation ( ASE ) compared to continued submergence ( CS ) and emergence ( CE ) through indoor simulations . Results showed that ASE significantly promoted the transport and bioaccumulation of PFASs in plant roots . The total PFAS concentration in ASE sediment was 54 times that in CS and 66 times that in CE at the end of the experiment . The Log bioconcentration factors ( Log BCFs ) in ASE ranged from -09 to 02 kg/L , significantly higher than in CS ( -23 to 58 kg/L ) and CE ( -79 to 26 kg/L ) . Substitutes exhibited higher Log BCFs compared to PFOA and PFOS , especially PFBA and PFHxS . Metabolomic analysis revealed that PFAS partitioning under alternating conditions induced the remodeling of root exudates ( REs ) , significantly increasing the secretion of organic acids ( 23 % ) and carbohydrates ( 20 % ) while decreasing the relative abundance of lipids ( 41 % ) . Additionally , PFAS partitioning under ASE reduced the abundance of Pseudomonadota ( 10 % ) while notably increasing the abundance of Patescibacteria ( 84 % ) , Thermodesulfobacteriota ( 30 % ) , and Sphingomonas ( 18 % ) in rhizosphere microorganisms ( RMs ) . Co-occurrence network analysis revealed that ASE strengthened the interactions between REs and RMs . Both the mediation of REs and the central role of dominant bacteria within the network were enhanced . Our study elucidates PFAS partitioning behavior under hydrological fluctuations and provides important insights into the management of rhizosphere pollution in submerge-emerge alternating regions .
Sterilization can change the flavor of mutton soup ( MS ) , with different sterilization methods having distinct effects on the MS flavor . This study aims to investigate the flavor alterations in MS following pasteurization ( PS ) , high-temperature sterilization ( TS ) , high hydrostatic pressure ( HHP ) , and ultrasonic sterilization ( US ) using flavoromics and lipidomics . TS treatment significantly enhanced the contribution of warmed-over flavors ( WOFs ) , including nonanal , 1-octen-3-ol , hexanal , 2-pentylfuran , heptanal , and ( E ) -2-decenal , preserved inosine monophosphate levels but significantly decreased amino acids concentration . Lipidomics found PS and TS treatment accelerated lipid oxidation and produced sterol esters and phosphatidylethanolamine , which are positively correlated with WOFs . While , HHP and US treatments enhanced characteristic flavor compounds , suppressed WOFs formation , preserved nucleotides ( GMP , AMP , CMP ) concentrations and amino acids , as well as improved sensory qualities by promoting triglyceride precursors critical to MS flavor . This study provides a scientific basis for the sterilization of MS and promotes its industrial production .
Surfactants , as foliar sprays , are widely used to increase the uptake of agrichemicals through plant leaf surfaces . Study of the effects of surfactants on plants has mainly focused on investigation of the mechanisms that underlie changes in droplet behavior on leaf surfaces . However , how surfactants may affect leaf chemical composition is largely unknown . The standard analysis techniques that have been widely used for leaf chemical analyses such as mass spectroscopy require complex and extensive sample preparation and leaf tissue destruction . Here , we have used an advanced technique , synchrotron macro-Attenuated Total Reflectance-Fourier Transformed InfraRed spectroscopy ( synchrotron macro-ATR-FTIR ) , which provides a fast , non-destructive and in vivo method to capture the leaf surface and enable the chemical mapping of essential functional groups . The development of two Quasar workflows for analyzing complex FTIR data in this study highlights and strengthens the advantages of synchrotron macro-ATR-FTIR for plant research . We found that the treatment of 5-week-old maize ( Zea mays L . ) leaves with a commercial surfactant , Silwet-L-77 , resulted in alterations in the FTIR spectral signatures associated with lipids , proteins and carbohydrates commencing 1 h after treatment . The effects of the surfactant on maize leaf water droplet behavior and photosynthetic performance were concentration-dependent . Synchrotron macro-ATR-FTIR is thus a newly emerging and powerful analytical technique for quantitative studies in plant physiology and biochemistry , especially for plant responses to external environmental factors including both abiotic and biotic stresses .
The interaction between lipids and proteins impacts on a multitude of cellular processes and may contribute to the onset of several pathologies and ageing . Such processes are frequently linked to oxidative stress , whereby polyunsaturated fatty acids act as substrates for in vivo lipoxidation . The subsequent lipid peroxidation and/or isomerisation is known to affect membrane organization , as well as to modify proteins and DNA , leading to functional alterations . Aim of this study was to evaluate the capacity of UV denaturation experiments to induce lipid modification and to investigate the influence of lipid presence on the conformational stability of selected soluble model proteins . To this end , the UV-denaturation experiment developed at the B23 beamline of the Diamond Light Source ( UK ) is employed , which high photon flux and brilliance of the incident beamlight induce protein denaturation when repeated consecutive synchrotron radiation circular dichroism spectra are acquired in the far-UV region , diagnostic of protein folding . This allows the estimation of protein photostability . Our findings show that the presence of lipid vesicles ( SUVs ) significantly impacts the UV-denaturation of proteins , preserving the native structure in proteins with a high helical content . This suggests that lipids may play a protective role against light-induced damage to proteins .
Climate change is exerting significant negative impacts on various sectors , with livestock farming being particularly affected . One of the most pressing challenges in this context is the growing shortage in the availability of conventional fodder . This scarcity has intensified the search for alternative feed sources , with particular interest in underutilized resources often considered waste due to limited knowledge of their nutritional value . This study aimed to assess whether watermelon plant silage ( WPS ) could be used as a forage source in ruminants . The chemical composition of WPS and alfalfa hay ( AH ) was analyzed . Results showed similar protein content ( 1 vs . 9 g CP/100 g DM , respectively ) , with WPS exhibiting higher crude fat content ( 16 vs . 29 g/100 g DM ) but lower hemicellulose ( 95 vs . 6 g/100 g DM ) and cellulose ( 0 vs . 8 g/100 g DM ) content compared to AH . In the first in vitro trial , WPS and AH were incubated independently to compare their fermentation behavior . WPS produced a higher concentration of short chain fatty acids ( SCFA ) ( 9 vs . 0 mM ; P = 304 ) , lower proportions of propionate ( P = 001 ) , and higher proportions of isobutyrate ( P = 001 ) . In a second in vitro trial , a formulated goat diet ( commercial concentrate and AH in a 1 : 1 ratio ) was used as a control to assess the impact of replacing 25% and 50% of AH with WPS . Trends towards higher value were observed in pH and CH4 concentration as AH was replaced by WPS . The study concluded that WPS could serve as a viable fodder to replace AH in conventional goat diets , simultaneously reducing agricultural waste and serving as a regenerative model for implementing circular economy strategies in affected agronomic sectors .
Microbial responses to environmental changes are well studied in laboratory cultures , but in situ adaptations of plankton lipidomes remain less understood . Building upon a global lipidomic study showing temperature-driven lipid unsaturation regulation in marine plankton , we expanded the analysis spatially and methodologically to investigate the in situ adaptations of marine plankton . Through weighted correlation network analysis of 3164 lipid species from 930 samples , we identified 16 structurally distinct lipid clusters co-occurred across diverse oceanographic conditions . The highest lipid diversity was observed in the polar oceans , where plankton uses chain shortening for cold acclimation . Conversely , in the surface of tropical and subtropical oceans , plankton showed enrichment in non-phosphorus lipids , likely responding to warm temperature , with potential implications for the elemental stoichiometry of the biological pump . In the subsurface of these regions , highly unsaturated lipids were enriched , suggesting phytoplankton adaptation to low light and contributing unsaturated fatty acids to tropical and subtropical ocean food webs . FAU - Liu , Weimin
BACKGROUND : Obesity negatively affects reproduction and in vitro fertilization ( IVF ) outcomes . However , its effects on lipid metabolism during embryonic development remain unclear . We examined follicular fluid ( FF ) lipid composition and body mass index ( BMI ) -related embryological outcomes in Korean women undergoing IVF/intracytoplasmic sperm injection ( ICSI ) . METHODS : This prospective cohort study included 68 Korean women with infertility without metabolic diseases who underwent IVF/ICSI . Patients were categorized according to the 2022 guidelines of the Korean Society for the Study of Obesity as follows : Group A ( obese , BMI >/= 25 kg/m2 , n = 28 ) and Group B ( non-obese , BMI < 25 kg/m2 , n = 40 ) . Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) was used to analyze lipids in the FF . Principal component analysis ( PCA ) and correlation analyses were performed . Embryological outcomes according to the BMI were compared using the QUADE nonparametric analysis of covariance adjusted for age and anti-Mullerian hormone . RESULTS : LC-MS identified 159 of the 230 lipids in the FF samples . Diacylglycerol ( DAG ) , triacylglycerol ( TAG ) , and acylcarnitine ( AC ) levels were significantly higher in the obese group ; whereas monoacylglycerol ( MAG ) and plasmenyl phosphatidylcholine levels were lower . PCA explained 9% of the variance between the groups . Significant inter-group differences were found in the DAG ( adjusted p < 05 ) and AC 16 : 1 ( adjusted p = 0139 ) levels . BMI and TAG , DAG , and AC levels ( adjusted p < 05 ) were positively correlated . Obese group had fewer fertilized oocytes ( 07 +/- 16 vs . 65 +/- 61 , p = 043 ) , cleavage-stage embryos ( 86 +/- 26 vs . 63 +/- 61 , p = 016 ) , and morula-stage embryos ( 00 +/- 51 vs . 05 +/- 14 , p = 024 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Obesity alters FF lipid composition in women with infertility undergoing IVF/ICSI , potentially affecting early embryonic development . This study improves our understanding of its effects on the ovarian microenvironment and offers insights into targeted IVF interventions .
Conjugation of an NSAID such as ibuprofen to the head group of oxanorbornane-based lipids and the use of their aggregates as carriers for doxorubicin ( Dox ) are discussed here . These conjugates were characterized by various spectroscopic techniques , including 2D-NMR , and insights into their assembly were gathered through PXRD , AFM , SEM , DLS , and qNano techniques . Free lipids as well as their formulations ( lipid : cholesterol : Dox in a 3 : 5 : 2 molar ratio ) showed a high tendency to form solid lipid particles , which was verified by TEM analysis . The presence of the ibuprofen unit led to an increase in interlipid spacing and a characteristic change in their packing . Active loading through a pH gradient allowed us to achieve high drug entrapment and a controlled release profile . The formulation AT3 , prepared by this method , showed a Dox entrapment of approximately 90% , with a controlled release of approximately 18% by the end of 24 h ; only approximately 66% of the entrapped Dox was released by the end of 5 days . Cytotoxicity studies in NIH3T3 cells and hemolytic assay results showed that these lipids and their formulations have a good safety profile . Results from flow cytometry experiments in A549 cells revealed that the formulation AT3 induces effects similar to free Dox , with cell cycle arrest predominantly at the S phase and G/M phase . At the same time , the response from the blank formulation was comparable to that of the control . Confocal microscopy studies in NIH3T3 and A549 cells showed that free Dox gets localized mainly in the nucleus , while the use of the carrier ( AT3 ) causes significant localization of the drug on the cytoplasmic side as well . ROS induction due to free Dox and its formulation ( AT3 ) in cardiomyocytes and A549 cells was also compared , and the results showed a protective effect in cardiomyocytes when using this formulation . FAU - Saroj , Soumya
The circulatory system plays a significant role in the adaptation of the human body to varying environmental conditions and stress factors , such as cold water immersion . The aim of the study was to determine whether a single immersion in cold water below 4 degrees C , at air temperature of -15 degrees C constitutes a health risk in young healthy men . For this purpose , the following parameters were determined in the blood samples collected in 13 young males before and after cold water immersion : electrolytes , renal profile , liver profile , lipid profile , glucose , testosterone , thyroid-stimulating hormone , cortisol . After the immersion , a statistically significant decrease was found for Cl- ( p </= 027 ) , mean values of renal profile indicators : urea ( p = 0019 ) , creatinine ( p = 0007 ) , and uric acid ( p = 0293 ) , as well as testosterone ( p = 000037 ) . In turn , higher values of estimated glomerular filtration rate ( p = 0425 ) , total bilirubin ( p = 0033 ) , aspartate transaminase ( p = 0023 ) , alanine transaminase ( p = 0053 ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( p = 0336 ) , creatine kinase ( p = 0117 ) , CK-MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase ( p = 0028 ) , and high-density lipoprotein ( p = 0270 ) were measured after cold water immersion . No significant changes in other biochemical parameters were observed . Single cold water immersion thus resulted in significant changes of blood parameters within non-pathological limits .
The human central nervous system simultaneously has the most highly unsaturated fatty acids ( HUFAs ) and the highest metabolic rate among body tissue . Up to 1% of consumed O is converted to reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) that cause unregulated damage to HUFA-rich membrane phospholipids ( PLs ) . Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) is the brain ' s most unsaturated and abundant HUFA . Reinforcing the ROS-labile bis-allylic positions with deuterium ( D-DHA ) protects against oxidative damage in vitro and in vivo . We developed an LC-MS/MS method to detect ambient levels of nascent oxidation products of DHA and D-DHA containing PLs in vivo in rat brain lipid extracts . Multiple reaction monitoring ( MRM ) -triggered mass spectra confirmed D-DHA incorporation in D-DHA-fed rat brain PLs . DHA-PL nascent oxidation products add 2 O , consistent with known peroxidation reactions . In contrast , D-DHA oxidation is primarily detected as a single O addition , consistent with epoxidation . D-DHA-PL showed 20%-30% lower overall oxidation compared to DHA-PL . Our data are consistent with a mechanism of action whereby D-DHA blocks excess lipid peroxidation , leading to lower overall membrane damage . D-DHA is a unique therapeutic approach against neurodegenerative diseases where ROS-driven oxidation is implicated . FAU - Garza , Secilia
BACKGROUND : The production of VLDL is one of the primary mechanisms through which liver cells regulate intracellular lipid homeostasis . We hypothesize that the disease characteristics of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) differentially impact VLDL lipid composition . This study comprehensively examines the relationship between VLDL-lipidome and MASLD histology and disease-associated genetics , aiming to define MASLD-related VLDL changes . METHODS : We performed untargeted lipidomics on serum VLDL particles in a cohort of biopsy-proven MASLD patients to examine the relationship between VLDL-lipidome and MASLD disease features as well as MASLD-related genetic variants . RESULTS : Among 1514 detected lipid species in VLDL , triglyceride ( TG ) , phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , and ceramide ( Cer ) were the top classes . Moderate to severe hepatic steatosis was associated an increase in VLDL-TG , especially those with palmitic acid ( C16 : 0 ) . A unified acyl chain distribution analysis revealed that steatosis was associated with increases in TGs with saturated and monounsaturated fatty acyl chains , but decreases in polyunsaturated fatty acyl chains , a pattern that was not mirrored in acyl chains from VLDL-PC or VLDL-Cer . Lobular inflammation was associated with reductions in lipids with polyunsaturated acyl chains , particularly docosahexaenoic acid ( C22 : 6 ) . Meanwhile , patients with advanced liver fibrosis ( stages 3-4 ) had reductions in VLDL-TGs with both saturated and polyunsaturated acyl chains and overall enrichment in Cer species . Furthermore , MASLD-associated genetic variants in PNPLA3 , TM6SF2 , GPAM , HSD17B13 , and MTARC1 demonstrated distinct VLDL-lipidomic signatures in keeping with their biology in lipoprotein metabolism . CONCLUSIONS : Hepatic steatosis and liver fibrosis in MASLD are associated with distinct VLDL-lipidomic signatures , respectively . This relationship is further modified by MASLD-genetics , suggesting a differential impact of pathogenic features on hepatocellular lipid homeostasis .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Cholangiocarcinoma ( CCA ) is a globally rare , increasingly incident cancer . Metabolic reprogramming is common in cancer cells , and altered lipid homeostasis favors tumor development and progression . Previous studies have described lipid deregulation in HCC cells , while in CCA , the lipidome profile is still poorly characterized . METHODS : We used liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to examine the lipid level profile of intrahepatic CCA ( iCCA ) and non-tumor surrounding tissue from patients , as well as in patients ' and healthy controls ' sera . RESULTS : All lipid classes were upregulated in tumor specimens and iCCA-derived sera . Newly synthesized fatty acids ( FAs ) accumulated in iCCA and were only marginally directed to mitochondrial beta-oxidation and scarcely folded in lipid droplets as neutral species . Metabolic flux assay showed that FAs were instead redirected toward plasma membrane formation and remodeling , being incorporated into phospholipids and sphingomyelin . A distinct lipid droplet and macrophage distribution was revealed by immunohistochemistry and Imaging Mass Cytometry . Lipid droplets were fewer in iCCA than in normal tissue and present mainly in the intratumoral fibrous septa and in M2 macrophages . Monocytes modified their lipid content and phenotype in the presence of iCCA cells , and the same effect could be recapitulated by FA supplementation . CONCLUSIONS : Our results reveal a profound alteration in the lipid content of iCCA tissues and demonstrate that FA accumulation prompts iCCA aggressiveness by supporting membrane biogenesis , generating bioactive lipids that boost proliferation , and by modifying macrophage phenotype .
Long regarded as an accessory sense , olfaction is now emerging as a metabolic architect-an active agent in energy homeostasis , appetite regulation , and systemic physiology . This review explores the converging lines of evidence positioning the olfactory system not as a passive enhancer of flavor but as a dynamic mediator between environment , behavior , and internal metabolic state . Food odors engage specific olfactory receptors ( OR ( s ) ) , which are embedded in neural circuits that project to hypothalamic , limbic , and reward regions . These circuits modulate insulin release , lipid metabolism , thermogenesis , and feeding behavior-often before a single bite is taken . This sensory-metabolic dialogue is continuously tuned by hormonal signals ( e . g . , leptin , ghrelin , insulin ) and deeply shaped by genetic variation across the ~400 human OR genes , where individual differences in perception carry metabolic consequences . Yet this ancient sensory system now operates in a radically altered chemical landscape . Synthetic volatiles , industrial food aromas , and urban pollutants desensitize olfactory pathways , potentially contributing to overeating and metabolic disease . In parallel , a new therapeutic frontier is emerging : targeted modulation of olfactory pathways-via intranasal hormones , neuromodulation , sensory retraining , and personalized interventions informed by OR genotypes-offers a compelling strategy for precision metabolic care . Revisiting Sydney Whiting ' s 1853 satire , in which " Smell " was cast as a meddling underling at the digestive gates , we now find this once-overlooked sentinel wielding remarkable authority . The nose , it turns out , knows-and may yet hold the key to rebalancing metabolism in a world that smells very different from the one we evolved to navigate . FAU - Manoel , Diogo
BACKGROUND : People with atopic dermatitis ( AD ) suffer from dry , itchy skin with reduced skin barrier function that leaves it prone to irritant and allergen penetration . Alterations in the composition and structure of the stratum corneum ( SC ) lipid lamellae underpin this increase in permeability . A wide range of emollients are used to ameliorate the skin of AD patients , but the majority have unclear effects on the lipid lamellae and barrier function . OBJECTIVES : To compare the effects of a multivesicular emulsion containing physiologic lipids and glycerine ( MVE+GL ) to a commonly prescribed oil-in-water emulsion containing glycerine without physiologic lipids ( OW+G ) . METHODS : A double-blind , intra-participant-controlled study was undertaken in adults with a history of eczema . Participants applied MVE+GL to one forearm and lower leg and OW+G to contralateral sites twice daily for 28 days . Skin properties were assessed before and after treatment . A detailed lipidomic profile was generated from SC samples , alongside in vivo ATR-FTIR spectroscopic analysis of its molecular composition . RESULTS : Fifty-eight people were included in the study ( aged 46+/-21 years ) . At sites treated with MVE+GL skin barrier integrity improved significantly ( 02+/-64 g/m2/h TEWL20 before vs 79+/-47 after treatment , p=0002 ) whereas O/W+G had no effect ( 6+/-39 g/m2/h versus 4+/-69 g/m2/h ) . Concordantly skin sensitivity to sodium lauryl sulphate ( SLS ) was significantly reduced by MVE+GL treatment ( Post-SLS TEWL was 58+/-43 before treatment and 54+/-64 g/m2/h after treatment , p=0008 ; erythema was also reduced ) . Skin moisture increased more rapidly at sites treated with MVE+GL compared to OW+G , leading to a more rapid reduction in visual skin dryness . Over 1600 lipid species were detected in the SC . Ceramide species NP and AP with 18 carbon sphingoid bases , both ingredients of MVE+GL , increased significantly by 24 and 19% respectively following MVE+GL treatment . In contrast changes of 9% for NP and 6% for AP were non-significant at sites treated with O/W+G . Increased abundance of NP species relative to NdS species were related to improvements in skin barrier integrity . CONCLUSIONS : Whilst the glycerine-containing emollient reduced skin dryness , it had no impact on barrier function . In contrast , MVE+GL improved the physical integrity of the barrier and reduced the sensitivity of the skin .
Cold ischemia significantly affects tissue sample quality and analytical accuracy . However , research on the effects of cold ischemia on tissue proteomics and metabolomics is limited , and efficient tools for assessing tissue quality are lacking . In this study , mass spectrometry ( MS ) -based proteomics and metabolomics were employed to evaluate the impact of cold ischemia times and temperature , and MS imaging ( MSI ) was explored as a high-throughput platform for tissue quality assessment . Our findings indicated that the proteome exhibits greater overall stability than the metabolome and that cold ischemia at 25 degrees C causes tissue molecular degradation more rapidly than at 4 degrees C . We also identified functional pathways particularly sensitive to cold ischemia , including the upregulation of cellular detoxification and small-molecule metabolism , alongside the inhibition of nucleotide excision repair functions . Additionally , MALDI MSI can identify the change in certain highly unsaturated lipids caused by cold ischemia . Specifically , phosphatatidylcholines ( 40 : 6 ) and phosphatatidylcholines ( 34 : 3 ) showed sensitivities of 67% and specificities of 89% for identifying ' ' low-quality ' ' leiomyoma tissues , indicating their potential as quality biomarkers . These insights can guide sample collection and selection strategies based on analytical objectives and provide a theoretical basis for preanalysis quality management . FAU - Su , Rong
Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) wound infections remain a significant global challenge and demand new-generation biomaterials to eliminate bacterial infections and promote rapid wound healing . Although the nanozyme is a promising approach , the restricted unimodal bactericidal functionality hinders its efficacy in treating complex wound infections . In this study , copper-tannic acid ( Cu-TA ) nanozymes ( NMs ) with multifunctional properties were developed for the treatment of bacterial infections and biofilms via cuproptosis-like cell death . The as-prepared Cu-TA demonstrated peroxidase-like ( POD-like ) activity , generating substantial amounts of hydroxyl radicals ( ( * ) OH ) . In vitro studies revealed that Cu-TA efficiently disrupted bacterial biofilms , while in vivo experiments demonstrated its ability to promote anti-inflammatory responses , angiogenesis , collagen synthesis , and cellular proliferation . Transcriptome sequencing revealed that bacterial reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) caused damage to the cell membrane and disrupted metabolic processes . Furthermore , copper overload triggered lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) buildup and interfered with the tricarboxylic acid ( TCA ) cycle , culminating in cuproptosis-like bacterial death . Overall , this study successfully developed a spindle-shaped , multifunctional nanozyme for combating bacterial infections through cuproptosis-like cell death while promoting infected wound healing . The results validate the clinical potential of Cu-TA NMs for treating MRSA-infected wounds . FAU - Yu , Chongqing
PURPOSE : Pathological epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) of lens epithelial cells ( LECs ) plays a crucial role in the formation of lens fibrosis , particularly in fibrotic posterior capsular opacification and anterior subcapsular cataract ( ASC ) . Here we investigated the potential roles of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress in the development of lens fibrosis . METHODS : RNA sequencing was performed to examine global gene expression changes in patients with ASC , as well as in TGFbeta2-induced human lens explants and rabbit primary LECs . Rabbit LECs were treated with TGFbeta2 in the presence or absence of the ER stress modulator , PERK inhibitor ISRIB , and autophagy inducer for in vitro studies . In vivo investigations were carried out using a mouse model of injury-induced capsular fibrosis , with ISRIB administration . To uncover the underlying mechanisms , we conducted lipidomics analysis , transmission electron microscopy , immunostaining , quantitative PCR , Western blot , and capillary Western immunoassay . RESULTS : ER stress genes were upregulated in patients with ASC , TGFbeta2-stimulated human explants and primary LECs . Pharmacologic ER stress induction promoted EMT , while its inhibition reduced TGFbeta2-induced mesenchymal gene levels . Blocking the PERK axis of ER stress with ISRIB or targeting downstream factor ATF4 suppressed EMT , whereas the IRE1 axis showed no effect . Consistent with these in vitro observations , anterior chamber injection of ISRIB also reduced subcapsular plaque formation in a mouse model of lens fibrosis by suppressing SMAD2/3 activation . Mechanistically , ISRIB suppressed LC3-II conversion and P62 degradation , indicating autophagy suppression . Lipidomics revealed phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) , essential for autophagosome formation , was downregulated in TGFbeta2-treated LECs and upregulated with ISRIB cotreatment . Inducing autophagy with rapamycin significantly rescued the mesenchymal gene suppression by ISRIB , whereas autophagy inhibitor CQ produced opposite effects . CONCLUSIONS : ER stress , particularly the PERK axis , promotes LECs ' EMT through autophagy and PE metabolism , offering potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of lens fibrosis . FAU - Wang , Xiaoran
Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFASs ) are emerging contaminants widely found in drinking water and food , potentially entering the human body through these sources . To investigate these effects , we simulated PFAS exposure doses in animal models , ranging from general population to occupational levels , and analyzed blood and spleen samples . Epidemiological studies linked PFAS exposure to immunosuppression and hematotoxicity , while toxicogenomic analyses validated the underlying biological mechanisms . PFAS exposure caused immunotoxic effects , including altered blood parameters and lymphocyte edema . Cellular abnormalities such as decreased cytoplasmic density , incomplete rough endoplasmic reticulum , chromatin condensation , lymphocyte nuclear shrinkage , and reduced mitochondrial cristae were observed . Epidemiological evidence revealed a dose-response relationship between mixed PFAS exposure and hematologic indices such as hematocrit ( HCT ) , hemoglobin ( HGB ) , platelet count ( PLT ) , platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio ( PLR ) , white blood cell count ( WBC ) , monocyte percentage , and platelet large cell ratio ( PLCR ) , with perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) playing a dominant role . Toxicogenomic analysis identified genes associated with platelets , anemia , and leukocyte function , linked to inflammation , Th17 cell differentiation , apoptosis , lipid metabolism , atherosclerosis , and JAK-STAT signaling . This study provides novel insights into the hematotoxicity and immunosuppressive effects of mixed PFAS exposure , emphasizing the need for PFAS substitution , removal , and policies addressing mixed exposures to protect public health . FAU - Du , Xiushuai
LIPUS , low intensity pulsed ultrasounds , are considered a safe and non-invasive tool that have been used extensively in medicine for chronic diseases . We evaluated the effects produced by LIPUS on the physiological behaviour of mouse and human adipose stem cells ( ASCs ) as well as on adipose tissue explants . LIPUS stimulation for one minute did not affect mouse or human ASC proliferation or apoptosis , with no evident changes in morphology or cell growth . Further , RNA-seq analysis revealed more than 200 genes differentially expressed after ultrasound stimulation of mouse and human ASCs . Among them , the changes in gene expression mainly belong to the canonical pathways of stemness , energy metabolism or chemokine signalling . On the other hand , the migration ability of mouse and human ASCs was partially affected by the ultrasound protocol , slightly increasing their capacity to migrate , while maintaining their stemness properties . Major affection was detected on the adipocyte differentiation capacity . Indeed , LIPUS-treated ASCs were unable to differentiate into mature adipocytes and their inflammatory secretion profile was reduced in both mouse and human ASCs . These effects were confirmed on an ex vivo model of adipose tissue explants , demonstrating that LIPUS also provoked an anti-inflammatory profile in the adipose tissue while reducing adipocytes differentiation and lipids content . Overall , the strong adipogenesis blockade , the reduction of their secretion profile and the RNA-seq analysis suggest that LIPUS-treated ASCs may be prevented from differentiating into mature adipocytes and from exacerbating inflammation , thus limiting their contribution to obesity .
The association between obesity and cancer risk carries substantial public health ramifications as obesity promotes cancer advancement via many cellular and molecular mechanisms . This study utilizes Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses ( PRISMA ) and narrative systematic review guidelines to evaluate 221 research articles selected from an initial collection of 1 , 288 publications sourced from multiple databases . Obesity-driven cancer risk is linked to hormonal imbalances including increased oestrogen levels that heighten the likelihood of breast and endometrial cancers , and insulin resistance that activates the insulin/ Insulin and Insulin-like Growth Factor 1 ( IGF-1 ) pathway promoting colorectal cancer progression . Chronic low-grade inflammation , metabolic dysfunction , and hypoxia in expanding adipose tissue contribute to pancreatic , oesophageal , colorectal , renal , and liver malignancies . Recent research has identified novel mechanisms that drive obesity-induced cancer progression . The adipose tissue secretome , extracellular vesicle-mediated lipid and RNA transfer , ferroptosis resistance , and metabolic reprogramming via Cluster of Differentiation 36 ( CD36 ) , Fatty Acid Binding Protein 4 ( FABP4 ) , and Carnitine Palmitoyl transferase 1A ( CPT1A ) create a tumour-permissive microenvironment . Obesity-induced epigenetic memory sustains cancer risk even after weight loss through persistent histone modifications ( Histone H3 Lysine 4 Trimethylation ( H3K4me3 ) , Histone H3 Lysine 27 Trimethylation ( H3K27me3 ) , DNA methylation , and RNA modifications , particularly through the Fat Mass and Obesity-Associated ( FTO ) gene . Additionally , organ and cell size expansion increase mutation susceptibility . Emerging pathways including the Von Hippel-Lindau ( VHL ) -Hypoxia-Inducible Factor ( HIF ) axis , PR Domain Zinc Finger Protein 16 ( PRDM16 ) /Uncoupling Protein 1 ( UCP1 ) inhibition , Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) -driven FABP4 upregulation , and Yes-Associated Protein ( YAP ) /Transcriptional Co-Activator with PDZ-Binding Motif ( TAZ ) signalling , further highlight obesity ' s role in oncogenesis . Future research should investigate weight-loss drugs ' effects on cancer pathways , expand demographic diversity , and develop biomarkers for adiposity . Integrating Mendelian randomization , multi-omics , and artificial intelligence could reveal novel therapeutic targets . A comprehensive prevention strategy combining lifestyle interventions , pharmacological therapies , and biomarker-driven diagnostics is crucial to reducing obesity-related cancer burden and improving patient outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Clinical observational studies have highlighted differences in plasma lipid profiles between lung carcinoma patients and healthy individuals . However , the causal relationship underlying these differences remains unclear . This study aims to investigate the bidirectional causal relationship between 179 plasma lipids and lung carcinoma . METHODS : A bivariate two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) study was conducted using data from public genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) . The primary analytical technique employed was the inverse variance weighting method ( IVW ) , with MR-Egger , weighted-median , and weighted mode as supplementary methods . Sensitivity analyses including Cochran ' s Q test and MR-Egger intercept test were performed to ensure the robustness of the results . RESULTS : Mendelian randomization analysis revealed positive associations between levels of certain plasma lipidome-Sterol ester 27 : 1/20 : 5 levels ( OR 162 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) 077-1254 , P 15e ( -4 ) ) , Phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) 20 : 4_0 : 0 levels ( OR 112 , 95%CI 051-176 , P 33e ( -4 ) ) , PC 17 : 0_20 : 4 levels ( OR 108 , 95%CI 051-167 , P 33e ( -4 ) , PC 18 : 0_20 : 4 levels ( OR 094 , 95%CI 046-144 , P 08e ( -5 ) ) , PC O-16 : 0 : 4 levels ( OR 180 , 95%CI 089-277 , P61e ( -5 ) ) , PC O-16 : 1_20 : 4 levels ( OR 155 , 95%CI 077-239 , P 00e ( -5 ) ) -with the risk of lung carcinoma . Conversely , PC 15 : 0_18 : 2 levels ( OR 823 , 95%CI 760-892 , P95e ( -6 ) ) , PC 16 : 0_18 : 2 levels ( OR 863 , 95%CI 801-931 , P 28e ( -4 ) ) , PC 16 : 1_18 : 2 levels ( OR 856 , 95%CI 791-926 , P 13e ( -4 ) ) , PC 18 : 1_18 : 2 levels ( OR 847 , 95%CI 77-911 , P 15e ( -6 ) ) were inversely associated with the risk of lung carcinoma . Reverse Mendelian randomization analysis indicated that lung carcinoma did not have a significant causal effect on the 179 plasma lipids . CONCLUSION : Our study reveals the causal relationship between plasma lipidome and lung cancer , provides preliminary genetic evidence , and provides a new idea for understanding the pathogenesis of lung cancer and finding promising therapeutic targets .
Parthenocarpic fruit development in prickly pear involves up-regulation of the transcription factor BZR1 and increased levels of brassinolide in developing ovules . We explored the complex process of parthenocarpic fruit development in prickly pear Opuntia ficus-indica ( Cactaceae ) by comparing the fruits of the parthenocarpic Beer Sheva1 ( BS1 ) mutant and revertant non-parthenocarpic fruits . The mutant plants produce flowers with enlarged ovules that develop into degenerated seed-like stony structures . Pollen tubes fail to penetrate the ovule , resulting in the formation of lignified and hard seed coat brown in colour . Some new stems on BS1 plants bear normal revertant flowers containing small and viable fertilized ovules . BS1 thus provides a unique model for elucidating the regulatory mechanisms underlying parthenocarpy in prickly pear . Our working hypothesis was that parthenocarpy is induced by elevated levels of brassinolide in the ovules of BS By comparing transcriptomes , we identified 7717 differentially expressed genes between BS1 and the revertant among them brassinosteroid-related genes . Quantification of the brassinosteroids confirmed higher brassinolide levels and up-regulation of the brassinosteroid positive regulator BRASSINAZOLE RESISTANT1 ( BZR1 ) in BS1 ovules compared to revertant ovules displaying normal seed development . Thereby , implicating the involvement of brassinolide in ovule development , fruit phenology , and parthenocarpy . The early flowering and fruit ripening observed in BS1 support our hypothesis that brassinolide promotes parthenocarpic fruit development and ripening .
PURPOSE : Fish oil supplements and plasma fatty acid levels were reported to be associated with lung function . We aimed to investigate the association of fish oil supplements and plasma fatty acids with lung function . METHODS : We included 248 , 133 participants with complete data on relative index of plasma fatty acids from the UK Biobank . Linear regression models were used to investigate associations of fish oil supplements and plasma fatty acids with pulmonary function . Mediation analysis was performed to identify the potential mediating role of plasma fatty acid . All analyses were multivariable-adjusted . RESULTS : Higher lung function was observed in fish oil users ( 59 ml for FEV1 and 92 ml for FVC ) . We found that each 1-unit increment of plasma PUFA , omega-3 , omega-6 , DHA , LA , and PUFA/MUFA were positively associated with lung function ( 74 ml , 15 ml , 81 ml , 23 ml , 44 ml , and 67 ml for FEV1 , respectively ; 04 ml , 39 ml 63 ml , 51 ml , 53 ml , and 02 ml for FVC , respectively ) , while SFA and MUFA were inversely associated with lung function ( -74 ml and -19 ml for FEV1 , respectively ; -44 ml and -83 ml for FVC , respectively ) . Omega-6/omega-3 only showed a negative association with FEV1 ( -17 ml ) . Mediation analysis suggested that plasma fatty acids partly mediated the associations between fish oil supplements intake and lung function , mainly DHA ( 70% and 50% for FEV1 and FVC , respectively ) . CONCLUSIONS : We provided evidence that fish oil supplements and plasma fatty acids were both associated with lung function parameters , and the positive association between fish oil intake and lung function was mainly mediated by DHA .
BACKGROUND : Gestational hypertension ( GH ) and pre-eclampsia ( PE ) are common high-risk complications of pregnancy , and are also one of the important causes of global maternal mortality and perinatal mortality . It has been suggested that abnormal lipid metabolism may play a key role in the pathogenesis of GH and PE . However , the results of different studies are controversial and lack of systematic quantitative analysis . PURPOSE : The aim of this study is to evaluate the differences in lipid levels between patients with GH and PE and healthy controls by meta-analysis , and to explore the potential role of abnormal lipid metabolism in the disease . DESIGN : In this study , PubMed , EMBASE , Cochrane Library , CNKI , and other Chinese and English databases were searched . The subjects included in the study were patients with hypertensive disorders during pregnancy ( including GH and pre-eclampsia ) and healthy controls . To evaluate the differences in triglyceride ( TG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , and low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) levels by systematic review and meta-analysis . Revman software was used to calculate the standardized mean difference ( SMD ) and its 95% confidence interval ( CI ) . Heterogeneity was evaluated by I statistic and Q test . Publication bias and sensitivity analysis were also performed . RESULTS : A total of 5 studies were included in the meta-analysis of gestational hypertension and lipid profile during pregnancy , including 321 patients with gestational hypertension and 1171 healthy pregnant women . A total of 7 studies were included in the meta-analysis , including 1114 women with gestational hypertension and 32 , 537 healthy pregnant women . The results showed that HDL levels in patients with gestational hypertension were significantly lower than those in the control group ( SMD = - 20 , 95% CI - 35 to - 06 , P = 006 ) , while LDL ( SMD = 40 , 95% CI 22 to 59 , P < 00001 ) , TC ( SMD = 37 , 95% CI 23 to 51 , P < 00001 ) , and TG ( SMD = 64 , 95% CI 50 to 79 , P < 00001 ) were significantly elevated . HDL levels were significantly lower in the pre-eclampsia group than in the control group ( SMD = -30 mmol/L , 95% CI - 36 , - 11 , P < 00001 ) , while LDL ( SMD = 25 , 95% CI 18 , 31 , P < 00001 ) , TC ( SMD = 27 mmol/L , 95% CI 21 , 22 , P < 00001 ) and TG ( SMD = 15 , 9% CI 55 , 74 , P = 0002 ) were significantly increased . Heterogeneity analysis showed moderate-to-high heterogeneity in some indicators ( I range : 56-99% ) . No significant bias was found in the publication bias test , and the results were robust . CONCLUSION : This study suggests that abnormal lipid metabolism may be an important feature of GH and pre-eclampsia , suggesting that dynamic monitoring of lipid levels has clinical value for early prediction and management of the disease . The decrease of HDL level may impair the vascular protective function , and the increase of LDL , TC , and TG levels may aggravate endothelial dysfunction and oxidative stress , thereby affecting placental perfusion function .
This research investigated the protective properties of Carvacrol ( CVC ) against Isoproterenol ( ISO ) -induced oxidative stress , neuroinflammation , and mitochondrial dysfunction in rats . The findings showed that CVC treatment did not significantly modify baseline oxidative stress levels in healthy rats but successfully alleviated ISO-induced oxidative damage by augmenting antioxidant enzyme activity and diminishing lipid peroxidation , as demonstrated by a reduction in MDA levels . These findings indicate that CVC can reinstate antioxidant capability and reduce oxidative damage . Concerning neuroinflammation , ISO therapy markedly increased the expression of pro-inflammatory markers , including TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , c-Fos , BDNF , Nfl , and GFP , signifying a robust inflammatory and damage response . The injection of CVC following ISO exposure markedly decreased the expression of these markers , suggesting that CVC may exert a neuroprotective effect by regulating the inflammatory response and mitigating neuronal and glial damage . CVC demonstrated a notable protective effect on mitochondrial integrity , evidenced by the decreased mRNA expression of mitochondrial damage markers , including NSE , s100B , CALP1 , and CALM1 in the CVC-treated groups , showing that CVC mitigates mitochondrial dysfunction . The analysis revealed no significant alterations in the expression levels of Abeta40 , pTau181 , and tTau across all groups , indicating that these biomarkers were not substantially influenced by CVC treatment under the study ' s conditions . However , beta-amyloid accumulation varied significantly between groups , highlighting the need for further research to explore CVC ' s potential implications in amyloid-related diseases . These findings endorse CVC ' s neuroprotective efficacy and therapeutic potential in neurological disorders associated with oxidative stress , inflammation , and mitochondrial impairment .
INTRODUCTION : Bile acid diarrhea ( BAD ) is a socially debilitating disease characterized by diarrhea , fecal urgency , and fecal incontinence . It is caused by excessive amounts of bile acids in the colon and is estimated to affect up to 1% of the population . Among other actions , bile acids regulate systemic glucose and lipid metabolism , and BAD has been associated with a dysmetabolic prediabetic-like state . Here , we investigate the association between BAD and type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) and cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , respectively . METHODS : By using nationwide Danish health registries , individuals with BAD were identified by referral to the diagnostic 75selenium-homotaurocholic acid test followed by redemption of a prescription of a bile acid sequestrant within 365 days or a BAD diagnosis code ( n=5 , 954 ) . A reference population of age and sex-matched individuals was included for comparison ( n=59 , 540 ) . RESULTS : More individuals with BAD than controls developed T2D ( 8% vs . 2% ) and experienced CVD ( 7% vs . 0% ) after index date ( i . e . , BAD diagnosis or matching , respectively ) . Sensitivity analyses revealed earlier onset of T2D and CVD in the BAD population compared with matches but no difference between sexes . The cause-specific hazards for T2D and CVD were 79 and 34 , respectively , in the BAD population compared with matches . All-cause mortality-but not CVD-related mortality-was increased among individuals with BAD compared with matches . DISCUSSION : BAD is associated with increased risk and earlier onset of T2D and CVD , respectively , as well as disturbed glucose and lipid metabolism , indicating BAD as a high-risk condition requiring intensified monitoring and relevant preventive interventions .
Surgically castrated male pigs , which are commonly produced in pork production systems , have slightly lower production efficiency , compared to intact female pigs ( gilts ) . This is mainly due to an unfavorable feed conversion rate and fatter carcasses . These differences influenced by physiological and genetic factors can be identified through metabolomics , which describes metabolic profiles . In this study , we used untargeted metabolomics to analyze the plasma of 694 Italian Large White pigs ( 228 castrated males and 466 intact gilts ) , sampled at slaughter . The metabolomic profiles included 731 metabolites covering 98 sub-pathways . The raw metabolomic data were cleaned and imputed using Multivariate Imputation by Chained Equations . The Boruta algorithm was then employed to identify metabolites that have different concentrations between castrated males and intact gilts . To address the random nature of feature selection , multiple Boruta runs were generated , nested within a 10-fold cross validation , resulting in 1 , 250 Boruta datasets . These datasets helped identify 40 informative metabolites , with a reduced core of 15 metabolites consistently confirmed across all runs . Their calculated random forest Out-Of-Bag ( OOB ) error was 25 and 27 , respectively . The relevance , ranking and predictive ability of each selected metabolite were determined based on the Mean Decrease Gini ( MDG ) and the area under the curve ( AUC ) of the Receiver Operating Characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis , with MDG values of 024+/-007 and 030+/-009 and AUC values of 62+/-04 and 65+/-03 for the two metabolite sets , respectively . Of the 40 selected metabolites , 60% had higher concentrations in castrated males than in intact gilts , while in the 15 metabolites set , this percentage was 80% . Network and biological pathways analyses indicated that the selected metabolites were primarily amino acids and lipids , many of which belonged to their respective sub-pathways , suggesting minimal biological differences between castrated males and intact gilts . These findings support previous results obtained using a targeted metabolomic platform . This study represents the largest investigation to date on the pig sex metabolome , providing essential biological insights that could inform precise husbandry and feeding strategies in pigs , taking into consideration the castration status of the males .
Lysocardiolipin acyltransferase 1 ( LCLAT1 ) is a lipid acyltransferase that plays an important role in mitochondrial function maintenance and lipid metabolism . Nevertheless , there is scarce research regarding its involvement in tumors . This study sought to investigate the potential role of LCLAT1 in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . We obtained HCC expression profile data from The Cancer Genome Atlas and Gene Expression Omnibus databases ; verified LCLAT1 expression in HCC by qRT-PCR , Western blotting , and immunohistochemical ( IHC ) staining ; and analyzed the potential pathogenic mechanisms of LCLAT1 in HCC bioinformatically . The associations of the LCLAT1 expression level with HCC patient prognosis , immune escape , and treatment response were also explored using bioinformatics tools and IHC staining . LCLAT1 was significantly overexpressed in HCC cell lines and tissues , and its expression level was positively correlated with histologic grade , tumor status , fibrotic Ishak score , and poor patient prognosis in HCC patients . Gene set enrichment analysis suggested that patients with high LCLAT1 had significant enrichment for methylation- , immune- , and cell proliferation-related pathways . The prognosis of HCC was found to be linked to the DNA methylation status of the five CpG islands within the LCLAT1 gene . Immune infiltration and single-cell level analyses showed that LCLAT1 was closely associated with the tumor microenvironment . Moreover , high LCLAT1 expression may promote immune evasion in HCC , and the abundance of several immune cells correlated with HCC prognosis . Finally , HCC patients with low LCLAT1 responded better to treatment with transarterial chemoembolization , sorafenib , and immune checkpoint inhibitors . LCLAT1 might serve as a potential prognostic biomarker and as a multipathway target involved in the malignant progression of HCC . Importantly , LCLAT1 was related to immune infiltration and could aid in predicting treatment response in HCC .
This study aimed to evaluate the mechanisms involved in skeletal muscle lipotoxicity , impaired lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress induced by a sucrose-rich diet ( SRD ) that mimics human Metabolic Syndrome ( MS ) , and to assess the preventive effects and molecular mechanisms of astaxanthin ( AXT ) extracted from freshwater crabs ( Dilocarcinus pagei ) on these alterations . Male Wistar rats received a reference diet ( RD ) , RD + AXT , SRD , or SRD + AXT ( 10 mg kg ( -1 ) day ( -1 ) orally ) for 90 days . Serum glucose , triglycerides , and cholesterol were measured . In skeletal muscle , triglyceride content , activities of lipogenic enzymes [fatty acid synthase ( FAS ) , acetyl-CoA carboxylase ( ACC ) , malic enzyme ( ME ) , glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( G-6-PDH ) ] and mitochondrial beta-oxidation enzyme [carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 ( CPT-1 ) ] were assessed , along with the expression of transcription factors sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c ( SREBP-1c ) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha ( PPARalpha ) by qPCR . Oxidative stress was evaluated by reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , glutathione ( GSH ) , and antioxidant enzymes ( CAT , GPx , GR ) , as well as pNFkappaB p65 and NrF2 protein levels . SRD feeding induced dyslipidemia , intramuscular triglyceride accumulation , increased de novo lipogenesis and SREBP-1c expression , and reduced CPT-1 activity and PPARalpha expression in skeletal muscle . Oxidative stress was evidenced by elevated ROS and decreased GSH and antioxidant enzyme activities , with reduced NrF2 and increased pNFkappaB p65 levels . AXT supplementation attenuated these alterations by downregulating lipogenic enzymes and SREBP-1c , enhancing CPT-1 and PPARalpha expression , and modulating NrF2 and pNFkappaB p65 , thus improving lipid metabolism and redox balance in skeletal muscle . This study revealed new aspects of skeletal muscle lipid accumulation , lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress in SRD-fed rats . We demonstrated the novel properties and molecular mechanisms of AXT extracted from freshwater crabs on these parameters in the skeletal muscle of an experimental model of MS . FAU - Oliva , Maria Eugenia
Alzheimer ' s disease has long been associated with the aggregation of amyloid beta peptides ( Abeta42 ) into macroscale plaques , although specific neurodegenerative agents have not been definitively identified . Much evidence has pointed to the soluble nanoscale oligomers that form early in the Abeta42 aggregation pathway , but there is little understanding of these structures , their mechanisms of formation , or how they grow into plaques . Here , we show that a solvatochromic fluorophore with near-infrared ( NIR ) emission can track synthetic Abeta42 aggregation through environment-sensitive spectral shifts from the earliest time points through plaque formation . This azide-functionalized phosphine oxide azetidine rhodol ( Phazr-N ) shows large polarity-dependent changes in fluorescence emission , with maxima shifting from 630 nm in toluene to 703 nm in aqueous buffer , and a maximum quantum yield of 62% . Upon induction of Abeta42 aggregation , we observe immediate solvatochromic changes in Phazr-N fluorescence , with multiple apparent phases over 12 h , and which culminate before the onset of any major fluorescence changes of conformation-specific aggregation fluorophore thioflavin T . Solution anisotropy measurements show a low micromolar affinity of Phazr-N for disordered , free Abeta42 in solution , and real-time measurements are consistent with rapid liquid-liquid phase separation and slow dehydration of the growing aggregate . Spectral imaging of synthetic plaques stained in the presence of live cells and lipid-binding protein albumin shows over 4000-fold Phazr-N fluorescence intensity above background under no-wash conditions , and over 100-fold intensity above coplated microglial cells or a large excess of albumin . This use of a solvatochromic probe with structure-independent binding to free Abeta42 offers real-time , minimally invasive insight into the full Abeta42 aggregation pathway . FAU - Wang , Zeming
The excessive intake of monosodium glutamate ( MSG ) increases its cellular levels in different organs and induces organ toxicity . The current study aims to investigate the metabolic changes and possible causes of hepatic , renal , and cardiac toxicity induced by MSG overconsumption . Thirty adult male rats were randomly allocated into five groups : control , MSG8 , MSG1 , MSG2 , and MSG3 , which were orally treated with a daily oral dose of saline , 8 , 1 , 2 , and 3 g MSG/kg BW , respectively , for eight weeks . The hepatic , renal , and cardiac biochemical markers ; lipid profile ; glucose ; electrolytes ; iNOS ; alpha-KGD ; oxidative stress ; and inflammatory markers were investigated . The histopathological examination of hepatic and renal tissues was also performed . The results revealed MSG-induced hepato-renal and cardiac toxicity , as indicated by the changes in the biochemical markers and tissue architecture of these organs . The toxicity is observed in the form of dyslipidemia , oxidative stress ( increased MDA and NO and decreased GSH , SOD , CAT , and GST ) , and inflammatory responses ( increased TNF-alpha and IL-6 ) . The histopathological changes in liver and kidney architecture confirmed the obtained results . In conclusion , the MSG-induced hepatic , renal , and cardiac toxicity was dose-dependent , and awareness should be raised about the side effects of the overconsumption of MSG . FAU - Abdou , Heba M
Altered body condition and diminished growth in wildlife in the Alberta Oil Sands Region ( AOSR ) are prompting investigations into the impact of oil sands industrial activity on wildlife in the region . Chemical constituents from bitumen-influenced waters , including oil sands process-affected water ( OSPW ) , can disrupt endocrine signaling , leading to aberrant lipid accumulation and altered glycemic control in mammals . This study aimed to investigate the effects of naphthenic acid fraction components ( NAFCs ) , derived from OSPW , on energy homeostasis using the McA-RH7777 rat hepatocyte model . Cells were exposed to NAFCs at nominal concentrations of 0 , 73 , 7 , and 4 mg/L for 24 and 48 h . We assessed gene expression related to lipid and glucose metabolism and measured triglyceride accumulation , glucose , and fatty acid uptake . NAFC exposure ( 7 and 4 mg/L ) reduced triglyceride levels and glucose uptake and increased fatty acid uptake and the expression of beta-oxidation genes , suggesting a metabolic switch from glucose to fatty acid oxidation . This switch in substrate availability signifies a shift in cellular energy dynamics , potentially linked to altered mitochondrial function . To investigate this , we conducted adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) , mitochondrial membrane potential , and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling ( TUNEL ) assays to measure cellular ATP levels , mitochondrial membrane potential , and apoptosis , respectively . At both time points , 4 mg/L NAFC exposure resulted in increased ATP levels , induced mitochondrial membrane hyperpolarization , and increased apoptosis . These results suggest that mitochondrial efficiency is compromised , necessitating metabolic adaptations to maintain energy homeostasis . Given that cells exhibit metabolic flexibility that allows them to dynamically respond to changes in substrate availability , we further demonstrated that the kynurenine-tryptophan ratio ( KTR ) serves as a marker for a shift in energy metabolism under these stress conditions . This work provides a mechanistic framework for understanding how bitumen-derived organic contaminants may disrupt metabolic function in wildlife living in the AOSR . These findings further support the use of molecular markers like KTR to evaluate sub-lethal metabolic stress in environmental health monitoring . FAU - Jamshed , Laiba
Effective wastewater management is critical for mitigating environmental and health impacts in ecologically sensitive regions like the Peruvian Amazon , where rapid urbanization has led to increased discharge of nutrient-rich effluents into freshwater systems . Conventional treatment methods often fail to address nutrient imbalances while generating secondary pollutants . This study aims to evaluate the bioremediation potential of a non-axenic cyanobacterium , Synechococcus sp . , isolated from the Amazon Basin , for municipal wastewater treatment within a circular bioeconomy framework . The strain was cultivated in different concentrations of municipal wastewater ( 25% , 50% , 75% , 100% ) from Moronacocha Lake in the Peruvian Amazon to assess growth kinetics , ammonium removal efficiency , and biochemical composition . The cyanobacterium exhibited optimal performance in 25% wastewater , achieving the highest specific growth rate ( 8 x 10 ( -2 ) mu . day ( -1 ) ) and biomass increase ( 2% ) , exceeding even the standard BG-11 medium . This treatment also demonstrated exceptional ammonium removal efficiency ( 4% ) and enhanced phycocyanin production ( 6 mug/mg , 56% higher than the control ) . As wastewater concentration increased , both growth parameters and removal efficiency progressively declined . Biochemical analysis revealed that higher wastewater concentrations resulted in decreased protein content and increased lipid accumulation in the biomass . These findings demonstrate the dual potential of Synechococcus sp . for effective wastewater remediation and production of valuable biomass with modifiable biochemical characteristics , offering a sustainable approach for wastewater management in the Peruvian Amazon region . FAU - Cabezudo , Remy G
Objective : This study analyzed the relationship between self-perceived physical fitness and anthropometric and biochemical variables in young athletes from extracurricular sports programs in northeastern Spain . Methods : A cross-sectional design was used with a sample of 673 young athletes . Data collection included self-reported physical fitness and objective anthropometric and biochemical measurements . The analysis explored associations between perceived fitness dimensions and physical/biochemical variables , with attention to sex differences . Results : Fat mass showed significant inverse associations with all perceived fitness dimensions : general fitness ( OR = 62 , 95% CI [41 , 94] ) , cardiorespiratory fitness ( OR = 56 , 95% CI [37 , 83] ) , muscular strength ( OR = 61 , 95% CI [41 , 91] ) , speed/agility ( OR = 59 , 95% CI [39 , 88] ) , and flexibility ( OR = 57 , 95% CI [39 , 84] ) . Higher fat mass was consistently linked to lower perceived fitness . HDL levels were positively associated with general ( OR = 40 , 95% CI [13 , 74] ) and cardiorespiratory fitness ( OR = 32 , 95% CI [07 , 62] ) , while LDL levels showed no significant effect ( p > 05 ) . Sex differences emerged for general fitness ( OR = 52 , 95% CI [33 , 82] ) and flexibility ( OR = 51 , 95% CI [33 , 78] ) , favoring boys , but no differences were found for cardiorespiratory fitness , muscular strength , or speed/agility ( p > 05 ) . This suggests that shared athletic environments may reduce typical sex-based disparities . Conclusions : Our findings emphasize the importance of considering both anthropometric and biochemical variables when evaluating perceived fitness in youth athletes . Regular athletic engagement may buffer sex-based differences in fitness perception . FAU - Pano-Rodriguez , Alvaro
In eukaryotic cells , communication between organelles and the coordination of their activities depend on membrane contact sites ( MCS ) . How MCS are regulated under the dynamic cellular environment remains poorly understood . Here , we investigate how Pex30 , a membrane protein localized to the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , regulates multiple MCS in budding yeast . We show that Pex30 is critical for the integrity of ER MCS with peroxisomes and vacuoles . This requires the dysferlin ( DysF ) domain on the Pex30 cytosolic tail . This domain binds to phosphatidic acid ( PA ) both in vitro and in silico , and it is important for normal PA metabolism in vivo . The DysF domain is evolutionarily conserved and may play a general role in PA homeostasis across eukaryotes . We further show that the ER-vacuole MCS requires a Pex30 C-terminal domain of unknown function and that its activity is controlled by phosphorylation in response to metabolic cues . These findings provide new insights into the dynamic nature of MCS and their coordination with cellular metabolism .
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) are ubiquitous neutral lipid storage organelles that form at discrete subdomains in the ER bilayer . The assembly of these ER subdomains and the mechanism by which proteins are recruited to them is poorly understood . Here , we investigate the spatiotemporal distribution of Pex30 at the ER-LD membrane contact sites ( MCSs ) . Pex30 , an ER membrane-shaping protein , has a reticulon homology domain , a dysferlin ( DysF ) domain , and a Duf4196 domain . Deletion of SEI1 , which codes for seipin , a highly conserved protein required for LD biogenesis , results in accumulation of Pex30 and phosphatidic acid ( PA ) at ER-LD contact sites . We show that PA recruits Pex30 at ER subdomains by binding to the DysF domain . The distribution of Pex30 as well as PA is also affected by phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) levels . We propose that PA regulates the spatiotemporal distribution of Pex30 at ER subdomains that plays a critical role in driving the formation of LDs in the ER membrane .
Nanomedicine is an emerging field of research , demanding new analytical methods to respond to stringent regulatory and safety requirements . Particle size and size distributions are critical quality attributes that require accurate and affordable measurements suitable for both R&D activities and routine quality control in production pipelines . Here we propose a new approach combining multidetector asymmetric flow field flow fractionation ( MD-AF4 ) with multiangle dynamic light scattering ( MADLS ) for determination of particle size on bioinspired colloids and on polymeric particles , without the need for calibration materials . We benchmarked our results against established analytical methods , using a set of model liposome formulations to cover a wide range of particle sizes . The liposomes , prepared by the traditional lipid thin-film extrusion method , were characterized by cryogenic transmission electron microscopy ( cryoTEM ) and MADLS , showing high monodispersity and long-term stability . These model samples allowed us to evaluate the effect of key variables on the performance of AF4 coupled to in-flow dynamic light scattering , identifying the influence of sample concentration on analytical bias for size determination . We extended the analysis to other types of particles ( i . e . polystyrene and polymethyl methacrylate ) , which are relevant for environmental and drug delivery applications . Our results demonstrate that the analytical bias for in-flow DLS measurements follows a universal law , nearly independent of the chemical nature of the nanoparticles investigated . Subsequently , we combined MADLS and AF4 techniques , exploiting a programmable fraction collection system , enabling the accurate determination of particle size and number concentration in the absence of flow , and providing higher resolution for the size distributions . Our approach could be extended to any kind of colloid suitable for light scattering methods and paves the way for the revisitation of AF4-DLS instrumentation that may become widely available in the future , expanding the set of analytical tools for nanomedicine applications . FAU - Doveri , Lavinia Rita
The past decade has witnessed the emergence and spread of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacter cloacae complex ( CRECC ) , presenting a significant clinical challenge and urgently demanding new treatment strategies against antimicrobial resistance ( AMR ) . This study focused on the impact of tigecycline on the susceptibility of CRECC isolates to colistin and the collateral sensitivity in CRECC . Under tigecycline pressure , the resistance of five clinically isolated CRECC strains to colistin was converted from resistance to sensitivity . These mutants exhibited significantly higher expression of acrA , acrB , and ramA genes , with mutations in the ramR gene . Overexpression of ramA in certain mutants did not alter ramR expression . No mutations were identified in lipid A synthesis genes ; however , phoQ was consistently downregulated , and arnA expression varied among CRECC405-resistant mutants . Low-dose colistin and tigecycline combination therapy outperformed monotherapy in antimicrobial efficacy . Overall , collateral susceptibility to tigecycline was observed in CRECC isolates with colistin resistance . The overexpression of acrA , acrB , and ramA , due to ramR mutations , led to tigecycline resistance . Inconsistent expression levels of lipid A synthesis genes affected lipid A modification , which in turn upregulated arnA expression in CRECC405-resistant mutants . Increased sensitivity to colistin was associated with the downregulation of phoQ and arnA expression . IMPORTANCE : Antimicrobial resistance ( AMR ) is escalating faster than our ability to manage bacterial infections , with antibiotic-resistant bacteria emerging as a significant public health risk . Innovative strategies are urgently needed to curb AMR dissemination . Our research identified collateral sensitivity in Enterobacter cloacae complex following tigecycline ( TGC ) resistance , resulting in newfound sensitivity to colistin ( COL ) , a drug to which it was once resistant . Synergistic tigecycline and colistin therapy significantly suppress bacterial growth , offering a promising approach to combat infections and curb AMR progression through the strategic pairing of antibiotics with complementary sensitivities . FAU - Yu , Kaixin
CONTEXT : Apigenin , a naturally flavonoid , is reported to have protective effects in chronic and metabolic diseases . But the therapeutic or ameliorative effects of apigenin on atherosclerosis are not known . OBJECTIVE : Our study aimed to elucidate the underlying mechanism of apigenin on preventing atherosclerosis by enhancing selective autophagy/lipophagy and promoting RCT process . MATERIALS AND METHODS : ApoE ( -/- ) mice fed with a high-fat diet ( HFD ) for 18 weeks were used to establish atherosclerosis model . Oil-Red-O staining of the plaques in the aorta and the heart was used to determine the severity of atherosclerosis . The autophagy flux was evaluated by western blot and reverse transcription quantitative PCR ( RT-qPCR ) . Then triton WR-1339 ( TWR ) was injected into muscles of C57BL/6 mice , and the role of autophagy was assessed by autophagy inhibitor LY294002 intervention . The transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) and immunofluorescence microscopy analysis ( IFM ) were used to elucidate the lipid-lowering mechanism of apigenin . RESULTS : In HFD-induced mice , apigenin inhibited the dangerous progression of atherosclerosis through decreasing lipid deposition in plaques , lowering serum and liver lipid contents , activating autophagy and promoting reverse cholesterol transport ( RCT ) . In TWR-induced mice , apigenin reduced the serum and liver lipid levels , enhanced the autophagy flux and increased RCT , but the above effects of apigenin were weakened by LY The TEM and IFM images revealed that apigenin promoted the formation of autophagosomes and the co-localization between autophagy proteins with lipid protein . DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS : The lipid-lowering effects of apigenin were mediated through promoting RCT and enhancing selective lipophagy , meanwhile it provided a potential therapeutic option for atherosclerosis . FAU - Hu , Zixuan
Parkinson ' s disease is one of the neuropathies characterized by accumulation of the alpha-synuclein protein , leading to motor dysfunction . Levodopa is the gold standard treatment ; however , in long-term usage , it leads to levodopa-induced dyskinesia ( LID ) . New therapeutic options are need of the hour to treat the alpha-synuclein-based neuropathies . The role of imbalance of neurotransmitters other than dopamine has been underestimated in alpha-synuclein-based neuropathies . Here , we explore the role of serotonin , epinephrine , and norepinephrine as a therapeutic moiety . For the efficient in vivo delivery , we use a DNA nanotechnology-based DNA tetrahedron that has shown the potential to cross the biological barriers . In this study , we explore the use of DNA nanodevices , particularly a DNA tetrahedron functionalized with neurotransmitters , as a novel therapeutic approach for MPTP ( 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1 , 2 , 3 , 6-tetrahydropyridine ) -induced Parkinson ' s disease in a PC12 cellular system . We first establish the effect of these nanodevices on the clearance of the alpha-synuclein protein in cells . We follow the study by understanding the various cellular processes like ROS , iron accumulation , and lipid peroxidation . We also explore the effect of the neurotransmitter-loaded nanodevices in an in vivo zebrafish model . We show that neurotransmitter-loaded DNA nanocages can potentially clear the MPTP-induced alpha-synuclein aggregates in cells and in vivo . The findings of these works open up new avenues for use of DNA nanotechnology by functionalizing it with neurotransmitters for future therapeutics in treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson ' s disease . FAU - Vaswani , Payal
BACKGROUND AND AIM : Lipid metabolism is altered in human immunodeficiency virus ( HIV ) infection and chronic liver diseases , but common and unique pathways have not been elucidated , limiting prevention and treatment strategies . The aim of this study was to discover lipid metabolite signatures for persons with HIV ( PWH ) , PWH with HCV coinfection ( PWH-HCV ) , and individuals with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease and steatohepatitis ( MASLD , MASH ) . METHODS : Plasma metabolite profiling was performed in adult participants in five cohorts from a single center : PWH ( N = 50 ) , PWH-HCV ( N = 50 ) , HIV-negative biopsy-proven MASLD ( N = 46 ) and MASH ( N = 50 ) , and controls without HIV or chronic liver disease ( N = 29 ) . Plasma metabolites were assessed using Biocrates Q500 , Bile Acid , and oxylipin assays . Latent factor analysis along with unadjusted and adjusted logistic regression models were performed . Significance was defined as p-value < 05 and false discovery rate ( FDR ) < RESULTS : Compared to controls , 457 of 816 measured metabolites were detected at different levels in PWH , 352 in PWH-HCV , 466 in MASLD , and 487 in MASH . Triglycerides and oxylipins were increased across disease states , but to a higher degree in PWH . PWH-HCV had a distinct metabolite signature with decreased ceramides and sphingomyelins . Levels of bile acid , amino acid , and fatty acid metabolites also differentiated cohorts . CONCLUSIONS : Lipid metabolites demonstrated pathways common to , and unique to , HIV , HCV , and MASLD . Further studies will hopefully reveal the pathogenic role of these metabolites in liver disease severity , particularly in PWH with steatotic liver disease .
FAT atypical cadherin 1 ( FAT1 ) is one of the most frequently mutated genes in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma ( HNSCC ) , exhibiting the highest mutation rate across different tumor types . Although FAT1 ' s role has attracted considerable attention , its impact on cancer metabolism and treatment resistance remains poorly understood . In this study , it is demonstrated that knockout of mutant FAT1 in HNSCC cells attenuates CPT1A-driven fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) through downregulation of the transcription factor ASCL2 , leading to marked suppression of tumor growth . Notably , FAT1-mutant HNSCC cells exhibit resistance to the TCA cycle inhibitor CPI-613 through activation of CPT1A-mediated FAO , whereas genetic ablation of mutant FAT1 restores sensitivity to CPI- To achieve in vivo depletion of FAT1 , LNP-sgFAT1 is developed , a novel lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) system encapsulating Cas9 mRNA and FAT1-targeting sgRNA . In murine models bearing FAT1-mutant head and neck tumors , LNP-sgFAT1 demonstrated enhanced antitumor activity when combined with CPI- Collectively , these findings establish that mutant FAT1 drives CPT1A-dependent FAO , facilitating a metabolic bypass that confers resistance to TCA cycle inhibition in HNSCC . This mechanistic insight highlights promising opportunities for combinatorial therapeutic strategies co-targeting genetic and metabolic vulnerabilities in cancer .
Salmonella enterica infections , characterized by strong invasiveness , are prone to causing serious systemic transmission , posing a significant threat to public health . This study proposes a " Trojan horse " strategy for oral treatment of Salmonella infection utilizing a " micro-nano composite " platform with intestinal microenvironment responsiveness , host cell targeting , and bacterial membrane fusion characteristics . The oral composite microspheres release silicasomes in response to elevated matrix metalloproteinase-9 ( MMP9 ) levels at infected intestinal sites . The released silicasomes adhere to the intestinal mucus layer , prolonging retention time , and are subsequently internalized into epithelial and macrophage cells via the SR-B1 receptor . Crucially , the membrane fusion lipid layer of the silicasomes fused with the intracellular Salmonella membrane , thereby overcoming the outer membrane barrier of the Gram-negative bacteria . In vivo and in vitro results showed that this process broadened the antibacterial activity of linezolid against Salmonella by more than 16-fold , achieving an intracellular bacterial clearance rate of 85-95% . Moreover , this system repaired intestinal barrier by increasing TJ protein expression by over 70% and reducing inflammatory cytokine levels by more than 80% . Summarily , this ' ' micro-nano composite ' ' platform eradicated Salmonella following a sequential tissue-cell-bacteria order , restored gut microbiota balance , and prevented systemic dissemination , offering a promising solution for intestinal infections . FAU - Chen , Yingxian
Current vaccines rely on the sequence of Spike ( S ) protein to induce immunity against the severe acute respiratory coronavirus-2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) virus . Because of the high mutation rate of the viral S protein , new mutant strains are developed to generate new infectivity profiles . Bioactive lipid mediators ( LMs ) derived from docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) are synthesized on demand to sustain homeostasis . The purpose of this study was to determine the action of selected LMs in the viral replication of SARS-CoV-2 Omicron BA . 5 variant in human lung and nasal epithelial cells . Cells from healthy donors were infected with Omicron BA . 5 for one hour and treated with 500 nM Elovanoid ( ELV ) -N32 , ELV-N34 , Resolvin D6 isomer ( RvD6i ) , Neuroprotection D1 ( NPD1 ) , or vehicle before and after infection . Impedance was recorded to determine cell death by infectivity . Cells were then immunostained for nucleocapsid ( N ) protein , microtubule-associated protein 1B-light chain 3 ( LC3B ) , and autophagic proteins . N and S RNA were measured to assess the synthesis of viral components . The addition of ELV-N34 or RvD6i decreased the synthesis of N RNA by 7% and 9% , respectively , in lung primary culture , while NPD1 exerted the same effect in nasal epithelial cells ( 7% reduction ) . In lung cells , transcription of autophagy-related gene-3 ( ATG3 ) and Sequestosome 1 ( SQSTM1/p62 ) , components of the autophagy initiation process , decreased compared to the non-treated infected cells . The results suggest that specific LMs prevent viral autophagy machinery hijacking , leading to a decrease in BA . 5 replication . This novel effect of the bioactive LMs as antivirals , regardless of the protein sequence , would potentially complement vaccination and other prevention and treatment therapeutics .
The antiviral enzyme cholesterol 25-hydroxylase ( CH25H ) and its metabolite 25-hydroxycholesterol ( 25HC ) , which modulates cholesterol metabolism during infection , have been associated with vascular pathology . Viral infections have been linked to intracerebral haemorrhage ( ICH ) risk , but the molecular mechanisms leading to ICH via antiviral responses remain unknown . We hypothesised that the CH25H/25HC pathway impacts neuroendothelial integrity in the context of infection-associated ICH . Using a severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 ( SARS-CoV-2 ) spike protein-induced zebrafish ICH model and foetal human SARS-CoV-2-associated cortical tissue containing microbleeds , we identified upregulation of CH25H in infection-associated cerebral haemorrhage . Using zebrafish models and human brain endothelial cells , we asked whether 25HC promotes neurovascular dysfunction by modulating cholesterol metabolism . We found that 25HC and pharmacological inhibition of cholesterol synthesis had an additive effect to exacerbate brain bleeding in zebrafish and in vitro neuroendothelial dysfunction . 25HC-induced dysfunction was also rescued by cholesterol supplementation in vitro . These results demonstrate that 25HC can dysregulate brain endothelial function by remodelling cholesterol metabolism . We propose that CH25H/25HC plays an important role in the pathophysiology of brain vessel dysfunction associated with infection and cholesterol dysregulation in the context of ICH .
Drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics ( DMPK ) plays a crucial role in optimizing peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) modulators by influencing metabolism , therapeutic efficacy , and safety . Rosiglitazone is primarily metabolized by cytochrome 2C8 ( CYP2C8 ) and CYP2C9 , with the CYP2C83 polymorphism increasing clearance , reducing efficacy , and altering fluid retention . Troglitazone metabolism via CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 generates a reactive quinone metabolite , depleting glutathione ( GSH ) , elevating mitochondrial oxidative stress , and inducing hepatotoxicity . Glitazones also undergo GSH conjugation through open-ring formation , influencing detoxification and toxicity . Inflammation downregulates CYP enzymes and transporters , altering drug clearance and increasing drug-drug interaction ( DDI ) risks . Ketoconazole and troleandomycin inhibit rosiglitazone metabolism by 52% and 40% , respectively , while pioglitazone inhibits CYP2C8-mediated arachidonic acid metabolism , impairing renal function . Gemfibrozil further increases pioglitazone ' s area under the curve ( AUC ) threefold by inhibiting CYP2C Additionally , rosiglitazone modulates OATP1B1 , enhancing pravastatin uptake at low concentrations but inhibiting it at higher levels , affecting plasma levels . Troglitazone inhibits organic anion-transporting polypeptide 1B1 ( OATP1B1 ) mediated rosuvastatin uptake , reducing hepatic delivery and efficacy , necessitating strategic drug combinations . Furthermore , new PPARgamma modulators are being developed via selective and partial activation to mitigate toxicity , incorporating non-thiazolidinedione scaffolds and optimizing DMPK properties through nanocarriers such as lipid-based nanoparticles . A deeper understanding of these factors is essential for designing next-generation PPARgamma-targeted therapeutics , ensuring improved efficacy , reduced toxicity , and enhanced suitability for personalized medicine . FAU - Jangra , Aryan
Inflammatory changes in perivascular adipose tissue are associated with atherosclerotic lesions in the adjacent artery and can also be used as a marker in patient workup . While adipocyte size is known to be closely related to adipose tissue dysfunction and inflammation , it has not been widely studied in perivascular adipose tissue obtained from healthy human subjects without clinical atherosclerosis . In this cross-sectional study , we addressed this issue by measuring adipocyte size and defining its relationship to cardiovascular risk factors in a healthy cohort of living kidney donors . The presence of cardiovascular risk factors was established by a standardized questionnaire , clinical measurements and body composition analyses . Adipocyte size was measured in the perivascular depot . The proportions of various macrophage subtypes were determined by flow cytometry . To confirm the results , the proportion of CD68 + macrophages was additionally assessed by immunohistochemistry . A correlation and principal component analyses were performed to explore associations . Adipocyte size in perivascular adipose tissue correlated with markers of lipid metabolism , inflammation , and glucose metabolism . Further , the positive correlation with the pro-inflammatory subpopulation of macrophages suggests a strong local effect of perivascular adipose tissue . Perivascular adipocyte size was associated with cardiovascular risk factors and markers of inflammation in a healthy cohort of living kidney donors . This further supports the local role of adipose tissue dysfunction and inflammation in early atherosclerosis development and detection . FAU - Bartuskova , Hana
BACKGROUND : Biofilm formation significantly contributes to the rise of antimicrobial resistance , treatment failures and recurrent infections . Essential oils ( EOs ) , particularly lavender EO ( LEO ) , have gained attention for their antimicrobial and antibiofilm activities . This study investigates the effects of LEO and linalool on Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) , Staphylococcus epidermidis ( S . epidermidis ) , and Candida albicans ( C . albicans ) isolates . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The chemical composition of LEO was analysed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . Eight clinical and reference microorganisms were tested , including four C . albicans , three S . aureus , and three S . epidermidis isolates , to assess their biofilm-producing potential with the tissue microtiter plate method . Antimicrobial and antibiofilm activities of LEO and linalool were evaluated in planktonic , single-biofilm , and dual-biofilm phases through microbroth dilution and scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) . RESULTS : The minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) and minimum bactericidal/fungicidal concentration ( MBC/MFC ) of LEO in the planktonic phase were 1250 microg/mL and 2500 microg/mL against Staphylococcus isolates , respectively , while the corresponding value for C . albicans isolates was 5000 microg/mL . 90% biofilm inhibition was achieved at concentrations of 5000 microg/mL and 40 , 000 microg/mL for Staphylococcus and C . albicans , respectively . LEO completely inhibited dual biofilms formed by C . albicans/S . aureus and C . albicans/S . epidermidis at 20 , 000 microg/mL , whereas linalool attained 100% inhibition at 40 , 000 microg/mL . CONCLUSION : LEO demonstrates significant antimicrobial and antibiofilm activity against Staphylococcus and C . albicans isolates , effective in both planktonic and biofilm phases .
The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 has resulted in a significant impact on public health , particularly for individuals with underlying health conditions such as obesity and diabetes . While vaccination efforts have played a crucial role in reducing hospitalizations , it remains unclear whether the effectiveness of these vaccines varies among different population groups . In this study , we investigated the immune responses generated by various SARS-CoV-2 vaccine platforms in mouse models with obesity and diabetes , focusing on both cell-mediated and humoral immune responses . Our findings revealed diminished immune responses in diabetic and obese mice compared to healthy counterparts . After vaccination with adjuvanted subunit or mRNA lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) vaccines , both humoral and cell-mediated responses were significantly reduced in diabetic mice . Obese mice also exhibited decreased immunogenicity , albeit to a lesser extent . However , it should be noted that mRNA vaccines demonstrated strong neutralizing responses across all metabolic states , while adjuvanted subunit vaccines elicited higher antibody avidity in mice with type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) and obesity compared to healthy mice . These results suggest that the impaired humoral and cell-mediated responses observed in altered metabolic states may be linked to chronic inflammation associated with obesity and suboptimal glycemic control in diabetes . Understanding the impact of these metabolic disturbances on vaccine immunogenicity is crucial for developing optimized vaccines that can effectively enhance immune responses and provide long-lasting protection against SARS-CoV-2 , even in individuals with obesity and diabetes . By contributing these findings , we support efforts to improve vaccine efficacy in populations affected by metabolic disorders , advancing effective immunization against SARS-CoV- FAU - Smith , Olivia A
INTRODUCTION : Cervical carcinoma ( CC ) remains one of the significant cancers threatening women ' s health globally . Increasing evidence suggests that alterations in the microbiota are closely associated with cancer development . However , the understanding of reliable biomarkers and underlying mechanisms during the aggravation of cervical neoplasia such as cervical intraepithelial neoplasia ( CIN ) and CC is still relatively limited . METHODS : In this study , cervical swab samples from 53 healthy controls , 51 high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion ( HSIL ) , and 52 CC patients were subjected to 16S rDNA sequencing and metabolomics analysis . RESULTS : We observed significant differences in the cervical microbiota between CC patients and healthy controls or HSIL groups . Compared to the healthy controls , CC patients exhibited increased microbial diversity , decreased abundance of Lactobacillus , and notable changes in microbial composition . Metabolomics analysis revealed significantly elevated levels of the inflammatory mediator Prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2 ) in CC samples . Through random forest modeling and ROC curve analysis , we identified a combination of key microbiota ( Porphyromonas , Pseudofulvibacter ) and metabolites ( Cellopentaose , PGE2 ) as diagnostic biomarkers with high diagnostic value for CC . Furthermore , we found a significant correlation between the cervical microbiota Porphyromonas and the metabolite PGE2 , suggesting a potential role of key microbiota in inducing inflammation . DISCUSSION : These findings indicate that alterations in cervical microbiota and metabolites may be closely associated with the occurrence and aggravation of cervical neoplasia , providing new insights for further understanding the mechanisms of cervical neoplasia progression and developing novel diagnostic markers and therapeutic approaches .
INTRODUCTION : Specific antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) regimens are associated with weight gain in people living with HIV ( PLWH ) . Gut microbiota is involved in weight gain in humans and animals . Human gut microbiota can be classified into enterotypes with distinct microbial and functional profiles . METHODS : In a cohort of 118 PLWH , we analyzed the gut microbiome in relation to weight gain and ART regimen using 16S rRNA gene sequencing , taking enterotype classification into account . RESULTS : The enterotype was strongly associated with sexual orientation . Of the 67 individuals forming a Prevotella-dominated enterotype cluster in principal coordinates analysis , 93% were men who had sex with men ( MSM ) , while 31% of individuals in the Bacteroides-dominated enterotype cluster were MSM and 69% were non-MSM . Forty-nine genera differed significantly between the MSM and non-MSM individuals . When stratified by dominant genus , only six taxa were associated with weight gain . Of these , five were restricted to Bacteroides-dominated individuals . Among them , the class Actinobacteria and genus Bifidobacterium differed between individuals gaining more than 5% weight and less than 5% weight 1 year after ART switch . Additionally , three taxa were significantly different between 15% of individuals with the highest weight gain ( >/=3% ) and the highest weight loss ( </=19% ) 1 year after ART switch , including the phyla Firmicutes , Verrucomicrobia , and Synergistetes . Distinct functional properties in Bacteroides , but not Prevotella-dominated enterotype individuals , linked to weight gain were observed , particularly for glycan and lipid metabolism . Additionally , ART regimen-associated differences were observed for the phylum Actinobacteria , although this was limited to Prevotella-dominated enterotype individuals . DISCUSSION : Differences in the composition and functional characteristics of the gut microbiome associated with weight gain and ART regimens were enterotype-specific and relatively small compared with differences linked to sexual orientation . Due to the substantial differences in gut microbiome structure among many MSM , categorization into enterotypes is useful for identifying differences in microbiome composition associated with variables such as weight gain or ART , which may be limited to a single enterotype . This may further advance the identification of microbes that contribute to weight gain or alter the gut microbiome composition in the context of the enterotype .
AIM : Insulin resistance ( IR ) is a hazard to human health in which peripheral insulin-target organs , like the liver , become less sensitive to normal levels of insulin . Dexamethasone ( DEX ) -induced IR is a distinct model of IR . Hence , the present study investigates the efficacy of mangiferin ( Mang ) in the reversal of DEX-induced IR in the livers and aortas of rats . MAIN METHODS : Rats were randomly assigned into six groups : control ( CTRL ) , Mang , DEX , and three pretreated groups ( received Mang 25 mg/kg , 50 mg/kg , or 100 mg/kg , orally for 14 days , with DEX ( 1 mg/kg ) injected from day 8 to day 14 ) . On day 15 , serum , liver , and aorta tissues were obtained and examined using biochemical , histological , and immunohistochemical assessments . KEY FINDINGS : Mang administration attenuated DEX-induced IR , evidenced by decreased oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) and fasting serum insulin levels , in addition to improving the DEX-induced hepatic and aortic histopathological alterations . Additionally , Mang attenuated DEX-induced alterations in liver function parameters and improved serum lipid profiles , oxidative stress , and antioxidant biomarkers . Mang also markedly increased hepatic and aortic levels of insulin receptor substrate 1 ( IRS1 ) , protein kinase B ( AKT ) , AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) , and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ( PPAR-gamma ) levels . Mang reduced hepatic and aortic tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , forkhead box protein O1 ( FOXO-1 ) , hepatic NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 ( NLRP3 ) , phosphoenol pyruvate carboxy kinase ( PEPCK ) , and glucose 6-phosphatase ( G6Pase ) . Mang elevated hepatic glycogen synthase kinase3 ( GSK3alpha ) and glycogen synthase ( GS2 ) levels . Furthermore , Mang ameliorated aortic expression levels of endothelin-1 ( ET-1 ) , vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( VCAM ) , c-Jun N-terminal kinase ( JNK ) , nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) and increased endothelial nitric oxide synthase ( eNOS ) and prostacyclin ( PGI2 ) levels . CONCLUSION : Mang administration could confer hepato- and vasculo-protective activity via its hypolipidemic , hepatoprotective , anti-inflammatory , and antioxidant efficacy .
BACKGROUND : The sodium glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor ( SGLT2i ) dapagliflozin has been demonstrated cardiovascular benefits in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) . However , the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood . METHODS : We conducted an 8-week , single-arm clinical trial , which enrolled 12 patients with inadequate glycemic control on metformin monotherapy . These patients were treated with SGLT2i dapagliflozin ( 10 mg/day ) . We assessed changes in clinical parameters pertinent to glucose metabolism and risk factors of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , as well as alterations in the gut microbiota using macrogene sequencing . RESULTS : Improvements were observed in anthropometric parameters , glucose metabolism , blood lipid-related indices , inflammatory markers , and endothelial cell function-related parameters . Concurrently , SGLT2i led to changes in composition and functional pathways of the gut microbiota , manifested as increased abundance of probiotics and decreased abundance of harmful bacteria . Importantly , reduced abundance of Fusobacterium was correlated with improvements in various clinical indicators . CONCLUSION : SGLT2i represents a superior initial therapeutic option for T2DM patients at risk of CVD . The cardiovascular benefits of SGLT2i may be attributed to shifts in the gut microbiota , particularly the reduced abundance of Fusobacterium .
BACKGROUND : Dedifferentiated fat ( DFAT ) cells have been used in regenerative medicine due to their multipotent potential . According to the literature , the process of adipocyte dedifferentiation is characterized by liposecretion which results in a fibroblastlike , proliferating cell population , with increased expression of genes related to cell cycle . A number of pathways have been implicated in the process , but the role of the cell cycle in adipocyte dedifferentiation has yet to be investigated . Here we characterize the process of liposecretion , the cellular features of DFAT cells and the role of the cell cycle . METHODS : Primary adipocytes and adipocyte-derived pluripotent cells ( APC ) were isolated from human adipose tissue and mature adipocytes were dedifferentiated in ceiling culture . The intracellular organization of DFAT and APC were compared using transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) , and the changes of intracellular lipid content over time were tracked with Oil Red O . Finally , we tested whether liposecretion is a cell cycle-dependent phenomenon by cultivating mature adipocytes in ceiling culture with or without four different inhibitors of the cell cycle ( AraC , Irinotecan , Vincristine and RO-3306 ) . RESULTS : DFAT cells were enriched in intracellular lipids , which are stored in small lipid droplets . In addition , liposecretion , which characterizes mature adipocyte dedifferentiation , is characterized by the rapid secretion of a large lipid droplet that is coated by a membrane . This phenomenon seems to be hindered by the presence of cyclin dependent kinase 1 ( CDK1 ) inhibitor RO- CONCLUSION : Both human adipose tissue depots undergo dedifferentiation in vitro , but visceral adipose tissue DFAT cells retain more lipids than subcutaneous-derived DFAT cells . Liposecretion is characterized by the rapid ejection of a membrane-wrapped lipid droplet . This phenomenon is dependent on CDK1 and likely relies on the presence of integrin-mediated cellular adherence .
BACKGROUND : DR represents a major cause of global vision loss ; however , the genetic basis of functional homotopy , a critical neurobiological metric reflecting interhemispheric functional synchronization , remains largely unexplored . Emerging evidence suggests that DR patients exhibiting aberrant VMHC may potentially associate with distinct transcriptional profiles . These findings could provide novel mechanistic insights into the neuropathological substrates underlying DR-related visual and cognitive dysfunction . METHODS : Resting-state fMRI data from 46 DR patients and 43 HCs were analyzed to compute VMHC for assessing interhemispheric functional connectivity . Spatial transcriptomic-neuroimaging associations were examined using AHBA , revealing genes significantly correlated with VMHC alterations . Subsequent analyses included functional enrichment assessment and PPI network construction . RESULTS : DR patients demonstrated significantly lower VMHC in bilateral LING , PoCG , and PreCG versus controls , indicating impaired interhemispheric connectivity in visual-sensorimotor networks . VMHC variations spatially correlated with 4 , 000 genes ( 2 , 000 positive/negative each ) , enriched in transcriptional regulation , mitochondrial function , synaptic activity ( BP/CC/MF ) , and lipid metabolism/N-glycan biosynthesis ( KEGG ) . PPI network identified hub genes ( ACTB/MRPL9/MRPS6 , positive ; H4C6/NDUFAB1/H3C12 , negative ) regulating mitochondrial dynamics , cytoskeleton , and epigenetics . CONCLUSION : This study represents the first integration of fMRI and transcriptomics to elucidate the genetic determinants underlying VMHC disruption in DR . The findings demonstrate that impaired interhemispheric connectivity in DR involves complex interactions among genes regulating neurovascular , metabolic , and neurodegenerative pathways . These results significantly advance the understanding of neurological manifestations in DR and identify potential therapeutic targets for clinical intervention .
BACKGROUND : Community-acquired pneumonia ( CAP ) represents a significant public health concern due to its widespread prevalence and substantial healthcare costs . This study was to utilize an integrated proteomic and metabolomic approach to explore the mechanisms involved in severe CAP . METHODS : We integrated proteomics and metabolomics data to identify potential biomarkers for early diagnosis of severe CAP . Plasma samples were collected from 46 CAP patients ( including 27 with severe CAP and 19 with non-severe CAP ) and 19 healthy controls upon admission . A comprehensive analysis of the combined proteomics and metabolomics data was then performed to elucidate the key pathological features associated with CAP severity . RESULTS : The proteomic and metabolic signature was markedly different between CAPs and healthy controls . Pathway analysis of changes revealed complement and coagulation cascades , ribosome , tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) signaling pathway and lipid metabolic process as contributors to CAP . Furthermore , alterations in lipid metabolism , including sphingolipids and phosphatidylcholines ( PCs ) , and dysregulation of cadherin binding were observed , potentially contributing to the development of severe CAP . Specifically , within the severe CAP group , sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) and apolipoproteins ( APOC1 and APOA2 ) levels were downregulated , while S100P level was significantly upregulated . CONCLUSION : The combined proteomic and metabolomic analysis may elucidate the complexity of CAP severity and inform the development of improved diagnostic tools .
BACKGROUND : Whether lipid-modifying drugs directly impact the outcome of sepsis remains uncertain . Therefore , systematic investigations are needed to explore the potential impact of lipid-related therapies on sepsis outcomes and to elucidate the underlying mechanisms involving circulating inflammatory cytokines , which may play critical roles in the pathogenesis of sepsis . This study aimed to utilize drug-target Mendelian randomization to assess the direct causal effects of genetically proxied lipid-modifying therapies on sepsis outcomes . METHODS : First , a two-sample Mendelian randomization study was conducted to validate the causal associations among high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , and sepsis . A subsequent drug-target Mendelian randomization study assessed the direct causal effects of genetically proxied lipid-modifying therapies on the risk of sepsis , sepsis-related critical care admission , and sepsis-related death . The identified lipid-modifying drug targets were subsequently explored for direct causal relationships with 36 circulating inflammatory cytokines . Finally , enrichment analyses of the identified cytokines were conducted to explore the potential relationships of lipid-modifying drugs with the inflammatory response . RESULTS : Genetically proxied cholesteryl ester transfer protein ( CETP ) inhibitors were significantly associated with sepsis-related critical care admission ( OR=84 , 95% CI [74 , 95] , P=008 , ) and sepsis-related death ( OR=68 , 95% CI [52 , 88] , P=004 ) . The genetically proxied CETP inhibitors were strongly associated with the levels of 15 circulating inflammatory cytokines . Enrichment analyses indicated that CETP inhibitors may modulate inflammatory cytokines and influence the inflammatory response pathway . CONCLUSION : This study supports a causal effect of genetically proxied CETP inhibitors in reducing the risk of sepsis-related critical care admission and death . These findings suggest that the underlying mechanism may involve the modulation of some circulating inflammatory cytokines , influencing the inflammatory response pathway .
Studies and applications of membrane proteins remain challenging due to the requirement of maintaining them in a lipid membrane or a membrane mimic . Modern machine learning-based protein engineering methods offer a possibility of generating soluble analogs of membrane proteins that retain the active site structure and ligand-binding properties ; however , clear examples are currently missing . Here , we report successful engineering of proteins dubbed NeuroBRs that mimic the active site ( retinal-binding pocket ) of bacteriorhodopsin , a light-driven proton pump and well-studied model membrane protein . NeuroBRs are soluble and stable , bind retinal and exhibit photocycles under illumination . The crystallographic structure of NeuroBR_A , determined at anisotropic resolution reaching 76 A , reveals an excellently conserved chromophore binding pocket and tertiary structure . Thus , NeuroBRs are promising microbial rhodopsin mimics for studying retinal photochemistry and potential soluble effector modules for optogenetic tools . Overall , our results highlight the power of modern protein engineering approaches and pave the way towards wider development of molecular tools derived from membrane proteins .
Parainfluenza viruses enter host cells by fusing their envelope with the cell membrane . In this process mediated by the fusion glycoprotein , the fusion peptide plays an essential role in membrane binding and triggering fusion . Previously , we demonstrated that the parainfluenza fusion peptide ( PIFP ) oligomerizes into porelike structures within the membrane , leading to membrane perturbations , fusion , and leakage . Additionally , we identified two key amino acid residues in the PIFP , F103 and Q120 , which are important in inducing lipid tail protrusion and maintaining peptide-peptide interactions , respectively . Here , we seek to elucidate the role of these two residues in the PIFP function by studying the impact of F103A and Q120A substitutions on peptide activity . We compared the substituted peptides with the native peptide using biophysical experiments and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations . Our results show that the F103A substitution significantly impairs PIFP ' s interaction with the membrane and its ability to induce lipid mixing and membrane leakage in experimental assays . Moreover , a decrease in lipid perturbation and water flux through the membrane was observed in the MD simulations . In contrast , the Q120A substitution appears to have minimal impact on membrane interaction and PIFP-induced membrane leakage . Interestingly , a pronounced change in the interpeptide interactions within the membrane of the substituted peptides was observed in the MD simulations . These findings provide crucial insights into the potential role of F103 and Q120 in PIFP activity : the N-terminal phenylalanine ( F103 ) is pivotal for membrane insertion and fusion , while the Q120 is crucial for regulating peptide oligomerization and pore formation .
INTRODUCTION : Dementia is a neurodegenerative syndrome marked by the accumulation of disease-specific proteins and immune dysregulation , including autoimmune mechanisms involving autoantibodies . Current diagnostic methods are often invasive , time-consuming , or costly . METHODS : This study explores the use of proteome-wide autoantibody screening ( PWAbS ) for noninvasive dementia diagnosis by analyzing serum samples from Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , dementia with Lewy bodies ( DLB ) , and age-matched cognitively normal individuals ( CNIs ) . Serum samples from 35 subjects were analyzed utilizing our original wet protein arrays displaying more than 13 , 000 human proteins . RESULTS : PWAbS revealed elevated gross autoantibody levels in AD and DLB patients compared to CNIs . A total of 229 autoantibodies were differentially elevated in AD and/or DLB , effectively distinguishing between patient groups . Machine learning models showed high accuracy in classifying AD , DLB , and CNIs . Gene ontology analysis highlighted autoantibodies targeting neuroactive ligands/receptors in AD and lipid metabolism proteins in DLB . Notably , autoantibodies targeting neuropeptide B ( NPB ) and adhesion G protein-coupled receptor F5 ( ADGRF5 ) showed significant correlations with clinical traits including Mini Mental State Examination scores . DISCUSSION : The study demonstrates the potential of PWAbS and artificial intelligence integration as a noninvasive diagnostic tool for dementia , uncovering biomarkers that could enhance understanding of disease mechanisms . Limitations include demographic differences , small sample size , and lack of external validation . Future research should involve longitudinal observation in larger , diverse cohorts and functional studies to clarify autoantibodies ' roles in dementia pathogenesis and their diagnostic and therapeutic potential .
Apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) gene variations are involved in lipid metabolism and cholesterol transport , with the ApoE4 allele being a known risk factor associated with neurodegenerative conditions later in life . Emerging evidence suggests these genetic variations may also influence respiratory function and vitality . However , the specific impact of different ApoE genotypes on breathing patterns remains largely unexplored . This work investigates differences in breathing waveform characteristics and entropy statistics derived from plethysmography ( PLETH ) data between rat models possessing two distinct ApoE genotypes ( referred to herein as gene59 and gene95 ) . Findings reveal significant distributional differences in common plethysmography metrics and approximate entropy between the two genotypes , observed during both active and resting states . Additionally , the study examines the transient impact of sighs ( deep breaths ) on these breathing metrics , demonstrating that entropy and other measures are altered in the breaths immediately following a sigh . FAU - Wormald , Stephen E
Unreasonable ratio of protein to lipid in feeds could affect growth , antioxidant , and related pathway genes expression . This study aimed to investigate the suitable proportion of protein to lipid in feed with Parabramis pekinensis . The ratio protein-lipid ( P/L ) indicated by G1 ( 52 ) , G2 ( 16 ) , G3 ( 03 ) , G4 ( 33 ) , G5 ( 49 ) , and G6 ( 67 ) , which were fed to P . pekinensis ( 80 +/- 52 g ) for 56 days . The present results showed that diets with a protein-to-lipid ratio of approximately 5 : 1 ( 35% protein and 10% lipid , or less ) were optimal for enhancing growth parameters , including body weight , WGR , PER , VSI , HSI , SGR , and feed conversion ratio ( FCR ) . The quadratic regression analysis of FCR and protein efficiency ratio ( PER ) in P . pekinensis showed that P/L ratio performed best around As the P/L ratio in feeds turned down , the best growth performance appeared at about 33 ( p < 05 ) , which was due to the unbalanced feed protein and fat levels . Meanwhile , P/L in 33 group exerted a protective function against oxidative damage in P . pekinensis . In addition , the increased antioxidant capacity contributed to the growth performance of the fish in 33 group , which showed the connection obviously . Thus , the connection existed in target of rapamycin ( TOR ) and Nrf2 signaling pathway , which was downregulated when the P/L ratio was around 52 and On the contrary , the P/L ratio around 33 could enhance the expression of tor and s6k1 to improve the growth of P . pekinensis . In the Nrf2 signaling pathway , the expression of keap1 , sod1 , and gpx affected antioxidant ability and the P/L ratio from 03 to 49 could be able to balance the antioxidant capacity , maintaining in normal level of P . pekinensis .
Meibomian gland dysfunction ( MGD ) is an ocular surface disease lacking optimal treatment strategy . The Hedgehog pathway is involved in regulating MGEC proliferation and differentiation . Catalpol ( CAT ) is the main active ingredient in Rehmannia glutinosa with therapeutic potential . Exploring the effects and biological mechanisms of CAT on meibomian gland epithelial cells ( MGECs ) . Primarily cultured rat MGECs were co-cultured with 3T3 cells for 7 days . MGECs were exposed to 5 , 5 , and 10 mmol/L CAT , 10 mug/mL Azithromycin ( AZM ) , and 6 mumol/L Smoothened receptor agonist ( SAG ) for 48 h . Colony formation assays , Cell counting kit-8 , Ki67 immunofluorescence , Nile red and Oil red O staining , and HSD LipidTOX Green kits were used to assess cell proliferation and lipid accumulation . Real-time quantitative PCR and Western blot analysis were used to measure gene expressions related to Hedgehog- and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) -gamma . This study successfully isolated primarily rat MGECs ( expressed P63 and K14 ) . AZM and 5 , and 10 mmol/L CAT inhibited colony number , cell viability , and Ki67 mean fluorescence intensity ( MFI ) , while they enhanced MFI of Nile red and LipidTOX Green , as well as increasing the ratio of Oil red O staining area . Additionally , transcription and translation levels of the Hedgehog pathway were significantly suppressed , meanwhile , PPAR-gamma and SREBP-1 expression were increased . Interestingly , SAG reversed the effects of 10 mmol/L CAT on MGECs . CAT suppresses MGEC proliferation and promotes lipid accumulation by inhibiting the Hedgehog signaling pathway . This study offers a potential therapeutic strategy for MGD . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1007/s10616-025-00769-
This study evaluated the effect of feeding milk replacers ( MR ) differing in fat composition on plasma cholesterol of dairy calves . Forty-five individually housed male Holstein calves ( 3 +/- 82 d ; mean +/- SD ) were blocked by arrival day and age . Within each block , calves were randomly assigned to an MR containing a fat blend with 65% rapeseed and 35% coconut fats ( RC ) , an MR containing 65% palm and 35% coconut fats ( PC ) , and an MR containing 65% lard and 35% dairy cream ( LD ) . All MR were isoenergetic with 30% fat , 25% protein , and 36% lactose ( DM ) . Calves were fed 0 L/d from d 1 to 5 , 0 L/d from d 6 to 9 , and 0 L/d from d 10 to 35 at 5% solids . Water and chopped wheat straw were available ad libitum from arrival onward . Milk , water , and straw intakes were recorded daily . Blood was sampled and BW was measured weekly at 1300 h . Fecal scores were recorded daily after the morning meal . Growth and intakes did not differ among treatments . Plasma total cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were higher in calves fed RC than PC and LD , and higher in calves fed PC than LD . Additionally , plasma triglyceride was greater in calves fed PC than LD at wk 2 after arrival , while calves fed RC did not differ from other groups . The proportion of abnormal fecal scores was lower in calves fed RC than PC and LD in wk The fat composition in MR significantly influenced lipid metabolism in calves but had no impact on growth .
Fatty acids ( FA ) are normally considered a source of energy . However , some FA are essential nutrients with different biological functions , such as ligands for membrane and nuclear receptors ; upon binding , they modify cell function and transcript expression . The bioactive effects of the FA depend on the FA type and family ( i . e . , n-6 vs . n-3 ) . The FA effects on developmental programming have been studied in cattle and sheep , with some similarities in the outcomes between species . Feeding n-3 FA during late gestation improves offspring production performance ( i . e . , milk yield in dairy cows and growth in beef cattle and sheep ) compared with the offspring of dams supplemented with mono- and unsaturated FA or with offspring of dams with no FA supplementation . Also , there is a sexual dimorphism in the outcomes of n-3 FA supplementation , where the increase in growth due to n-3 FA seems to be more evident in males , but it might decrease growth in females . There are multiple assumptions as to how this physiological process occurs . Based on published literature , the developmental effect does not appear to be due to changes in hypothalamic regulations of DMI and energy expenditure or liver and adipose tissue functions . The changes in offspring growth can be attributed to changes in gastrointestinal tract physiology , changes in immune response , or both , probably due to epigenetic changes in those tissues . Feeding n-3 FA in late gestation to the pregnant dam increases expression of amino acid transporters ( mRNA and protein ) in the offspring ' s duodenum , associated with changes in DNA methylation . Regarding immune function , the increase in offspring performance has been associated with decreased haptoglobin after weaning in calves or increases in lipid mediators , such as resolvin-D1 at birth . Supplementation with n-3 FA during late gestation affects offspring growth ; changes in the offspring ' s gut and immune system biology can explain the sexual dysmorphism observed in changed body weight ; however , we are unaware which of these basic mechanisms is responsible for the observed changes in biology .
BACKGROUND : Arthritis is a common degenerative joint disease with a high prevalence especially in the elderly population . Due to its strong association with chronic pain and dysfunction , arthritis has become an important challenge in public health . Recent studies have shown that triglyceride ( TG ) levels , as key metabolic markers , may play an important role in the pathogenesis of arthritis , and its associated inflammatory response may accelerate joint degeneration and inflammatory process . OBJECTIVE : Based on the above findings , the aim of this study was to investigate the association between baseline TG levels and the incidence of arthritis in adults aged 45 years and older , utilizing data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) . METHODS : This study utilized the CHARLS from 2011 to 2018 , which included 7 , 551 participants aged 45 years and older . The association between TG levels and new-onset arthritis was assessed by logistic regression modeling , adjusting for demographic and health-related variables . The potential role of HDL-C , LDL-C , and BMI in the TG-arthritis association was further assessed by mediation analysis , which decomposed the association into direct and indirect effects . RESULTS : During the study period , 3 , 363 participants ( 5% ) developed arthritis . Higher TG levels were significantly associated with arthritis risk , with an 8% increase in arthritis risk for each interquartile range ( IQR ) increase in TG ( OR=08 ; 95% CI , 039- ) Interquartile analyses of TG levels showed a significant dose-response trend ( P trend <05 ) , suggesting that the risk of arthritis tended to rise progressively with higher TG levels . Mediation analysis further revealed that HDL-C mediated approximately 5% of the TG-arthritis association , suggesting an important role of HDL-C in the metabolic pathway of arthritis development . CONCLUSION : Elevated TG levels were significantly associated with an increased risk of arthritis , and this association was partially mediated by HDL-C . The findings suggest that interventions targeting reduced TG levels and enhanced HDL function may have potential value in arthritis prevention . Future studies should focus on lipid metabolism intervention strategies to reduce arthritis risk and delay disease progression , providing a new scientific basis for arthritis management .
BACKGROUND : The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index has been confirmed to be a predictor of cardiovascular diseases . The present study aimed to assess the predictive value of TyG index for left ventricular aneurysm ( LVA ) formation and prognosis in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) who underwent primary percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) . METHODS : This prospective study included 991 patients with acute STEMI who underwent primary PCI . Multivariable logistic regression and receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis were used to assess the predictive value of TyG index for LVA formation . Prognosis analysis was performed with cox proportional hazard regression . RESULTS : The prevalence of LVA was 4% . A higher TyG index was associated with a greater incidence of LVA ( 1% vs . 8% , P< 001 ) . The TyG index was also higher in the LVA group than in the non-LVA group ( 4 +/- 9 vs . 0 +/- 8 , P<001 ) . Multivariable logistic regression analysis revealed that the TyG index was independently associated with the risk of LVA [odds ratio ( OR ) = 4 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) = 51-82 , P< 001] . The predictive value of the TyG index remained significant even after cross-validation by dividing the study population into a training set ( OR= 32 , 95% CI= 24-35 , P= 009 ) and validation set ( OR= 19 , 95% CI= 42-19 , P= 005 ) . Higher TyG index was correlated with increased risk of cardiac death ( HR= 17 , P= 04 ) . The maximal length and width of LVA were significantly increased in patients with TyG index >/= 68 compared with < 68 ( P< 001 ) . The discriminant power of TyG index for LVA was 742 , which was superior to both triglyceride ( C statistic= 666 ) and fasting blood glucose ( C statistic= 613 ) . The combination of TyG index , left ventricular ejection fraction , gensini score , and left anterior descending artery as the culprit vessel could significantly improve the predictive ability ( C statistic= 908 ) . CONCLUSIONS : A higher TyG index was an independent predictor for LVA formation and increased risk of cardiac death in patients with STEMI who underwent primary PCI .
BACKGROUND : A common pathophysiological association between lipid metabolism and sex hormone levels has been revealed in recent research . The atherogenic index of plasma ( AIP ) is the marker currently used to evaluate metabolism . The purpose of this research was to discover the relationship between the AIP and testosterone deficiency ( TD ) in a nationwide representative population . METHODS : Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) database from 2011 to 2016 were utilized in this cross-sectional research . The formula , lg [TG ( mmol/L ) /HDL-C ( mmol/L ) ] , was applied to determine the AIP . Total serum testosterone levels were used to define TD . Our researcher utilized smoothed curve fitting and multivariate logistic or linear regression analysis to inspect the relationship between AIP and TD among adult males . The consistency of these results was examined in various population subgroups . RESULTS : In total , 1 , 198 individuals ( 6% ) were stratified into the TD group . We observed statistically significant differences ( P values < 05 ) in the TD population for all variables . After correcting for potential confounders , our researchers discovered a strong positive relationship between the AIP and the probability of developing TD . With each additional unit of the AIP , the incidence of TD increased by 81-fold in adult males . Subgroup analyses showed the correlations for the majority of the subgroups remained stable . However , marital status , CKD , smoking , and alcohol consumption may modify this association . CONCLUSIONS : A higher AIP is correlated with a lower level of testosterone in adult males . This correlation may be altered by factors including marriage , chronic kidney disease , alcohol , and smoking consumption .
OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the effectiveness of diagnosis and treatment at the collaborative National Standardized Metabolic Disease Management Center . METHODS : A nationally standardized selection process was used to recruit the healthcare team , followed by standardized training and assessment . The management center was equipped with coordinated healthcare resources , and clear workflows and responsibilities were established . A quality control management model was implemented throughout all stages . A convenience sample of 452 patients treated at the center between January 2018 and July 2023 was selected . After one year of management , a self-comparison was conducted to evaluate the impact of one-stop diagnosis and management on patients ' weight , fasting blood glucose , glycated hemoglobin , blood pressure , blood lipids , diet , and exercise . RESULTS : After one year of management , patients showed significant reductions in weight , BMI , waist circumference , and visceral fat compared to baseline data ( P=000 ) . Fasting blood glucose and glycated hemoglobin levels decreased significantly ( P<0001 ) , as did systolic and diastolic blood pressure ( P<05 ) . Triglycerides , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and total cholesterol levels also decreased significantly ( P<05 ) , but high-density lipoprotein levels did not change significantly ( P=5298 ) . Improvements were observed in dietary and exercise behaviors ( P<05 ) , though no significant change was observed in salt intake ( P=648 ) . CONCLUSION : The collaborative model at the National Standardized Metabolic Disease Management Center enhances comprehensive patient management . Combined with lifestyle guidance on diet and exercise , the model improves the prevention and control of glycemic and lipid metabolism indicators in diabetes patients .
BACKGROUND : The non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio ( NHHR ) is an emerging composite lipid marker . Prediabetes , characterized by an asymptomatic state with moderate hyperglycemia , is more prevalent than diabetes . This study aimed to elucidate the potential correlation between NHHR and the risk of diabetes and prediabetes among adults with hypertension . METHODS : In this cross-sectional survey , we screened National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) -collected data during 2009-2018 , identifying a qualifying population of 10 , 250 individuals . Weighted multivariate logistic regression and curve fitting evaluated the correlation between the NHHR and the incidence of diabetes and prediabetes . To test differences between subgroups , stratified analyses were performed . Additionally , prediction accuracy of the NHHR was assessed using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves . RESULTS : We included 10 , 250 patients with hypertension ( mean age , 31 +/- 06 years ) including 2 , 198 with diabetes and 4 , 138 with prediabetes-a combined prevalence of 81% . The fully adjusted model indicated each unit increase in NHHR was associated with a 21% higher risk of diabetes/prediabetes ( OR 21 ; 95% CI , 15-25 ) . Adjustment using multivariable classification models revealed that compared to the lowest NHHR quartile , the odds increased by 41% ( OR 37 ; 95% CI , 27-59 , p<001 ) in Q3 and ( OR 82 ; 95% CI , 62-98 , p<001 ) in Q In patients with hypertension , the NHHR was positively correlated with the prevalence of diabetes and prediabetes , with a nonlinear trend in the fitted curve ( nonlinearity , P=007 ) . The threshold effect analysis showed that the inflection point for NHHR and the risk of diabetes and prediabetes was In particular , when NHHR was below 09 , a positive correlation was found between NHHR and the risk of diabetes and prediabetes in this population ( OR 34 ; 95% CI , 28-39 ) . Subgroup analyses showed consistent associations across most groups , with a significant interaction in sex . CONCLUSIONS : NHHR is positively and non-linearly correlated with diabetes/prediabetes in patients with hypertension , particularly among women . It may serve as a valuable tool for early risk assessment and management .
BACKGROUND : Thyroid hormones impact on metabolic homeostasis , and low thyroid hormone levels , both systemically and hepatically , have been linked to hepatic steatosis . However , prior studies in this area often lacked quantification of steatosis . Ultrasound attenuation analysis ( USAT ) is a novel imaging technique for hepatic steatosis detection based on the attenuation coefficient . Our objective in this study was to assess the correlation between thyroid hormone levels and hepatic steatosis via the USAT attenuation coefficient in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) and chronic hepatitis B ( CHB ) groups . METHODS : This retrospective study included 86 patients with CHB and 45 patients with suspicious MASLD . Demographic information , biochemical parameters , and thyroid hormone levels were analyzed . The severity of steatosis in MASLD or CHB was assessed by USAT . RESULTS : Patients in the MASLD group were more likely to have type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) and hypertension as compared with those in the CHB group ( P<05 ) . The levels of triiodothyronine ( T3 ) were significantly lower and the platelet counts higher in the MASLD group than in the CHB group ( P<05 ) . The body mass index ( BMI ) , distance from skin to capsule , USAT values , and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) levels in patients with hepatic steatosis were significantly higher than those in patients without hepatic steatosis ( P<05 ) . Logistic regression analysis indicated a correlation between free triiodothyronine ( FT3 ) level and hepatic steatosis ( P=04 ) as well as between free thyroxine ( FT4 ) level and hepatic steatosis ( P=045 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Quantitative USAT evaluation suggested that hepatic steatosis is strongly correlated with thyroid hormones . These data emphasize the relevance of thyroid hormones for regulating hepatic lipid accumulation and metabolism .
Immunotherapies have yielded tremendous advances over the last three decades . However even the most promising therapies , for example monoclonal antibodies , require systemic infusion that can limit dosing and lead to off target immunotoxicity . To address such challenges and improve immunotherapy , the field is investing in synthetic biomaterials to target lymph nodes ( LNs ) - sites of coordinated immune activation and suppression . These synthetic materials allow enhanced targeting , retention , and control over the signals that are required to elicit desired immune processes during immunotherapy . Two broad classes of materials that have been employed for LN targeting include synthetic lipids and polymers . This review will discuss how the chemistries of these materials can be leveraged to improve lymph node targeting of immunotherapies to treat disease . We will also provide commentary on translational barriers to the clinic , an outlook on current therapies that are clinically used , and a forward-looking perspective . FAU - Bridgeman , Christopher J
Plant proteomics studies face two major challenges : limited databases due to the need for sequenced genomes and the difficulty in obtaining high-quality protein extracts . Olive ( Olea europaea ) , a key species in Mediterranean flora known for its rich biochemical content , presents additional complexity due to its lipidic structure and high levels of inhibitory compounds that hinder protein extraction . Consequently , various studies have focused on optimizing the protein extraction methods for olives . While different extraction protocols exist for leaf proteome analysis , their compatibility with LC-MS/MS has been scarcely studied . This work was carried out to compare three protein extraction protocols for LC-MS/MS analysis using olive ( O . europaea L ) leaf tissue . Denaturing SDS ( Method A ) , physiological CHAPS ( Method B ) , and phenolic TCA/acetone ( Method C ) were evaluated with LC-MS/MS data . The quantitative comparisons of the three extraction methods revealed that Protocol A gave the greatest yields . According to the results obtained , Protocol A uniquely identified 77 proteins , Protocol B identified 10 unique proteins , and Protocol C identified 19 unique proteins . Similarly , the peptide sequence analysis showed that Protocol A uniquely identified 208 peptide sequences , Protocol B identified 29 , and Protocol C identified Moreover , reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography ( RP-HPLC ) results suggest that Method A may be more efficient in removing and retaining hydrophobic proteins . Overall , Protocol A demonstrated greater sensitivity , efficiency , and reproducibility in LC-MS/MS analysis .
Aims/Background Bronchopneumonia is a common infectious disease in pediatrics , which can lead to myocardial and hepatic impairments . Children with bronchopneumonia accompanied by wheezing are vulnerable to hypoxia , which may damage other systems . Therefore , this study explored the influence of montelukast combined with methylprednisolone on liver function , platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzymes in children with bronchopneumonia accompanied by wheezing . Methods The clinical data of this retrospective study included 82 pediatric cases diagnosed with bronchopneumonia and wheezing between April 2022 and April Based on treatment methods , patients were divided into the methylprednisolone group ( 40 cases ) as well as the montelukast and methylprednisolone group ( 42 cases ) . Therapeutic efficacy , resolution time of clinical symptoms , and adverse effects were recorded . Furthermore , liver function indicators , platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzyme levels were comparatively assessed using biochemical analyzer , hematology analyzer and biological kits in both groups . Results The total efficacy rate of the montelukast and methylprednisolone group was 2% ( 40/42 ) , higher than the 5% of the methylprednisolone group ( p = 018 ) . Patients in the montelukast and methylprednisolone group had shorter hospitalization and clinical symptom disappearance times than the methylprednisolone group ( both p < 05 ) . In addition , there was no significant difference in total incidence of adverse reactions ( p = 700 ) . Methylprednisolone monotherapy or in combination with montelukast , substantially reduced liver function indicators , platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzyme levels ( p < 05 ) . Moreover , the platelet count , eosinophil count , and myocardial enzymes [aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) , creatine kinase ( CK ) , and creatine kinase isoenzyme ( CK-MB ) ] were reduced in the montelukast and methylprednisolone group compared to the methylprednisolone group after treatment ( p < 05 ) . Compared to the methylprednisolone group , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) , total bilirubin ( TBIL ) , direct bilirubin ( DBIL ) levels were significantly diminished in the montelukast and methylprednisolone group following treatment ( p < 05 ) . Conclusion Montelukast and methylprednisolone combination therapy reduces platelet and eosinophil counts , alleviates myocardial and liver function damage , and demonstrates good therapeutic efficacy in children with bronchopneumonia accompanied by wheezing . FAU - Yuan , Wei
Aims/Background Uremia is a severe manifestation of end-stage renal failure , with high cardiovascular risk , and current dialysis treatments like hemodialysis ( HD ) face limitations in toxin clearance , necessitating more effective therapeutic strategies . This study aims to evaluate the clinical efficacy of HD combined with hemodiafiltration ( HDF ) in treating uremia and its influence on cardiac ultrasound indices . Methods This study retrospectively analyzed clinical data from 80 uremic patients treated at the Taizhou Hospital of Zhejiang Province affiliated to Wenzhou Medical University between April 2019 and April Based on different therapeutic regimens , patients were divided into a control group ( n = 41 ) and an observation group ( n = 39 ) . The control group received HD , while the observation group underwent HD combined with HDF . The cardiac structure , cardiac function , lipid metabolism , and other biochemical indicators were comparatively assessed between the two groups . Results There were no significant differences in baseline characteristics between the two groups ( p > 05 ) . Before treatment , both groups demonstrated no significant difference in left atrial diameter ( LAD ) , left ventricular posterior wall thickness ( LVPWT ) , interventricular septal thickness ( IVST ) , left ventricular end-diastolic diameter ( LVEDD ) , brain natriuretic peptide ( BNP ) , and troponin T ( TnT ) ( p > 05 ) . However , after 6 months of treatment , these indices were significantly declined in the observation group ( p < 05 ) . Similarly , no significant differences were observed in left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , fractional shortening ( FS ) , cardiac output ( CO ) , stroke volume ( SV ) , and peak mitral E-wave velocity/peak mitral A-wave velocity ( E/A ) before treatment ( p > 05 ) . However , a significant improvement was observed in the observation group following 6 months of treatment ( p < 05 ) . Before treatment , there were no significant differences in serum creatinine ( Scr ) , blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) , beta2-microglobulin ( beta2-MG ) , and parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) between the two groups ( p > 05 ) . However , the observation group showed significant improvements in Scr , BUN , beta2-MG , and PTH after treatment ( p < 001 ) . Additionally , the two study groups had no significant differences in total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , and low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) before treatment ( p > 05 ) . However , their levels decreased significantly in the observation group after treatment ( p < 05 ) . Hypertension and hypotension occurred less frequently in the observation group ( p < 05 ) , with no significant differences observed in the incidence of arrhythmia and infection between the two groups ( p > 05 ) . Conclusion HD combined with HDF effectively improves cardiac structure and function , reduces metabolic wastes such as Scr , BUN and beta2-MG , and decreases blood lipid levels in uremic patients . This study further confirmed the clinical efficacy of this combined approach in treating uremia , which is of positive significance for the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular diseases in uremic patients . FAU - Feng , Haiyun
Aims/Background Sjogren ' s syndrome ( SS ) is a highly prevalent autoimmune disease with potentially serious consequences if left untreated , but methods for early detection and prevention of SS remain limited . This study aims to investigate the causal relationships between serum metabolites and SS using Mendelian randomization ( MR ) , focusing on identifying key metabolic pathways and biomarkers that contribute to SS pathogenesis . Methods We used a two-sample MR approach to investigate the causal relationships between serum metabolites and SS . The primary method for estimating these causal effects was inverse variance weighting ( IVW ) , with results presented alongside their corresponding 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) . Sensitivity analyses included the Cochran ' s Q statistical analysis and MR-Egger method . Furthermore , an enrichment analysis of metabolic pathways was applied to the identified metabolites . Results Thirty-seven serum metabolites that have causal links with SS , encompassing 7 metabolite ratios and 30 single metabolites ( 4 unknown and 26 known ) , were identified . Metabolite ratios , reflecting the balance between specific metabolites , were analyzed to identify metabolic shifts that may contribute to SS pathogenesis . Among the 26 known metabolites , 12 are protective factors and 14 are risk factors . The levels of cis-4-decenoate ( cDA ) ( 10 : 1n6 ) ( odds ratio [OR] = 125 ; 95% CI = 026-233 ; p = 012 ) is positively correlated with the incidence of SS , whereas the levels of butyrate/isobutyrate ( 4 : 0 ) ( OR = 822 ; 95% CI = 701-963 ; p = 016 ) are negatively correlated with the SS incidence . Most of these metabolites are associated with lipid and amino acid metabolism . Among lipids , the strongest risk-increasing factor was 2 , 3-dihydroxy-2-methylbutyrate ( OR = 307 ; 95% CI = 054-621 ; p = 015 ) , while the strongest risk-decreasing factor was hexadecadienoate ( 16 : 2n6 ) ( OR = 774 ; 95% CI = 635-944 ; p = 011 ) . Among amino acids , the strongest risk-increasing factor was N-acetylproline ( OR = 178 ; 95% CI = 024-355 ; p = 022 ) , and the strongest risk-decreasing factor was N-acetylserine ( OR = 802 ; 95% CI = 694-926 ; p = 003 ) . Furthermore , these metabolites are predominantly enriched in the arginine and proline metabolism pathway . Conclusion This study helped enhance our comprehension of the causal relationship between serum metabolites and SS , showing that some metabolites may influence the risk and development of this disease . These insights offer novel perspectives for the development of SS prediction and diagnosis . FAU - Li , Yuqiao
This study investigated oxygen scavenging efficiency and the risk of embolization of the cardiac vasculature using ultrasound-triggered phase-shift perfluorobutane ( PFB ) droplets in vitro and ex vivo . The emulsion comprised lipid-shelled perfluorobutane core droplets with a modal diameter of 98 +/- 03 mum . The droplets were prepared using a high-pressure microfluidizer . The embolization risk was assessed using a modified ex vivo rat Langendorff preparation to accommodate an EkoSonic Endovascular Device . The EkoSonic Device was composed of an infusion catheter and an ultrasonic core to generate ultrasound at 35 MHz and nucleate acoustic droplet vaporization of the droplets . The oxygen scavenging efficiency was studied in an isolated beating heart and an in vitro flow phantom setup with target concentrations ranging from 05 x 10 ( -4 ) to 0 x 10 ( -4 ) mL mL ( -1 ) . Gas embolization from the acoustic droplet vaporization ( ADV ) -nucleated microbubbles was assessed based on cardiac perfusion and cardiac functional parameters . No change in cardiac perfusion was observed when using droplets with target concentrations below 5 x 10 ( -4 ) mL mL ( -1 ) , either with or without ultrasound insonation of the droplets . Oxygen scavenging increased with increasing droplet target concentration . The ADV transition efficiency increased with increasing droplet concentration between 05 x 10 ( -4 ) and 5 x 10 ( -4 ) mL mL ( -1 ) and decreased for higher concentrations . The conclusion of this study was that ultrasound-triggered phase-shift perfluorobutane droplets effectively scavenge oxygen without causing significant embolization at concentrations below 5 x 10 ( -4 ) mL mL ( -1 ) . Oxygen scavenging increased with higher droplet concentrations , whereas the transition efficiency of ADV reached the largest value at 5 x 10 ( -4 ) mL mL ( -1 ) , indicating an optimal performance balancing safety and efficacy exists . FAU - Al Rifai , Nour
Vibrational spectroscopy is gaining popularity for understanding ecological and evolutionary patterns in plants , particularly in relation to the analysis of pollen grains . So far , Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ( FT-IR ) has been the main approach used to classify pollen grains based on chemical variations . However , FT-IR may be less suitable for detecting differences in the pollen grain exine , mainly composed of sporopollenin . In contrast , Raman spectroscopy has increased sensitivity for the main chemical components found within sporopollenins . We compare the classification performance and chemical information provided by FT-IR and FT-Raman using a large dataset of Quercus L . pollen , comprising five species in three sections : ( i ) Cerris : Q . suber , ( ii ) Ilex : Q . coccifera , Q . rotundifolia , and ( iii ) Quercus : Q . robur , Q . faginea ) . Here , we used multiblock sparse partial least squares discriminant analyses ( MB-sPLS-DA ) analyses to directly compare the two infrared methods . Both FT-IR and FT-Raman successfully classified Quercus pollen to section level ( 100% accuracy ) . At the species level our models achieved approximately 90% accuracy for FT-Raman and FT-IR separately and in the combined multiblock model . The multiblock results showed an increased number of sporopollenin peaks observed in FT-Raman spectra as compared to FT-IR . These peaks are also of a higher importance for classification . Results also showed differences in the types of vibrations that are of diagnostic value for the two infrared methods . CH deformations are more important in FT-Raman , while C-O-C , C-O , and C = O stretches are more important for FT-IR-based identification of pollen . These vibrations are indicators of carbohydrates , proteins and lipids . FT-Raman provides equally successful diagnostic potential to FT-IR , but uses more chemical information based on variations in sporopollenin chemistry than FT-IR . We suggest that the combined analysis of FT-IR and FT-Raman using multiblock analysis has great potential for classification . FAU - Muthreich , Florian
A cystathionine beta-synthase ( CBS ) gene , FpCBS , of the wheat crown rot pathogen , Fusarium pseudograminearum , was identified . FpCBS was highly expressed during conidiation and the early phases of infection . Compared to the wild-type and FpCBS complemented strains , the FpCBS deletion strain had a similar hyphal morphology and growth rate but reduced conidiation . In culture , the FpCBS deletion strain showed broad-scale changes with a decrease in HS levels , changes in sulphur-containing amino acids and 1207 differentially expressed proteins . The deletion strain also showed reduced deoxynivalenol ( DON ) production , cellophane penetration ability , antioxidant capacity , as well as increased hyphal iron levels , sensitivity to HO and lipid peroxidation . During infection , the DeltaFpcbs strain showed diminished virulence to wheat with fewer penetration structures , and there was a stronger host defence response with wheat epidermal cells having thickened walls and greater reactive oxygen species accumulation . Transcriptomic analysis of infected leaves showed 1954 differentially expressed genes in the FpCBS deletion strain compared to the wild-type strain . This included genes for sulphur metabolism , antioxidative defence , plant cell wall-degrading enzymes and trichothecene production . FpCBS not only plays a pivotal role in sulphur metabolism and HS production , but it is also important for a broad range of fungal functions , including iron homoeostasis , mycotoxin production and development ( conidiation and penetration structures ) . These factors may all contribute to varying extents to the significant decrease in virulence of the FpCBS deletion strain . The findings have shown that FpCBS is important for much more than sulphur metabolism and HS synthesis . However , its role in virulence highlights its potential as a novel target for developing strategies to control wheat crown rot .
BACKGROUND : Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent cell death , has been widely reported to impede the progression of various malignancies , including breast cancer ( BC ) . Previous evidence has indicated that high expression of non-coding RNA activated by DNA damage ( NORAD ) is correlated with poor prognosis in BC patients . Nonetheless , it is unclear whether NORAD plays a role in the ferroptosis of BC cells . METHODS : BC cells were treated with the ferroptosis agonist erastin to induce ferroptosis . Western blotting and qRT-PCR were employed to determine protein and RNA levels , respectively . The cell counting kit-8 assay was used to assess cell viability . Mitochondrial morphology , lipid peroxidation , and intracellular Fe2+ , MDA , and GSH levels were evaluated for ferroptosis . ChIP , luciferase reporter , and RIP assays were conducted to explore the molecular mechanism of NORAD . A xenograft mouse model ( BALB/c nude ) was established to evaluate NORAD ' s effect on ferroptosis of BC in vivo . RESULTS : NORAD displayed a high level in human BC tissues and cells . NORAD overexpression or silencing inhibited or facilitated erastin-induced ferroptosis of BC cells , respectively . NORAD upregulated NR3C1 expression via interaction with FUS , and NR3C1 could transcriptionally upregulate SLC7A Overexpressing SLC7A11 could reverse NORAD silencing-mediated promotion of ferroptosis . NORAD upregulation attenuated the antitumor activity of erastin in tumor-bearing mice . CONCLUSIONS : NORAD upregulates SLC7A11 via the FUS/NR3C1 axis , thereby suppressing erastin-induced ferroptosis of BC cells .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide . Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of programmed cell death driven by lipid peroxidation , has emerged as a promising strategy for cancer treatment . However , the development of ferroptosis resistance limits the efficacy of such treatments . This study reports that phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate 5-kinase 1 alpha ( PIP5K1A ) promotes HCC tumorigenesis and predicts poor prognosis in HCC patients . Knockdown of PIP5K1A enhances lipid peroxidation and increases sensitivity to sorafenib-induced ferroptosis by inhibiting the activation of downstream ferroptosis-related genes regulated by nuclear factor erythroid-2-related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) . Mechanistically , PIP5K1A competitively binds to the Kelch domain of Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 in a kinase-independent manner , leading to NRF2 escaping from ubiquitination degradation , thereby promoting NRF2-dependent transcription and suppressing ferroptosis . Furthermore , ISA-2011B , a PIP5K1A-specific inhibitor , effectively inhibits HCC growth and sensitized HCC cells to sorafenib . In conclusion , PIP5K1A is a promising therapeutic target for improving the efficacy of sorafenib and other ferroptosis inducers in HCC .
BackgroundPrevious studies suggest that transient receptor potential melastatin 2 ( TRPM2 ) plays a protective role in sepsis by enhancing bacterial clearance . This effect is mediated through the modulation of macrophage phenotypic changes , which strengthen the immune response against infection . However , the specific role and underlying mechanism of TRPM2 in macrophage polarization during sepsis remain unclear . MethodCecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) was used to establish a mouse sepsis model , and bone marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDMs ) and peritoneal macrophages were prepared from C57BL/6 wild-type and TRPM2 knockout ( trpm2 ( -/- ) ) mice . IPI549 was utilized as a specific inhibitor of PI3K . Macrophage polarization , bactericidal ability , and the PI3K/protein kinase B ( AKT ) /cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein signaling pathway were assessed . In addition , survival rate , bacterial burden , lung wet/dry weight ratio , lung and liver injury scores , and cytokine levels were measured in CLP-induced septic mice . ResultsIn lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -stimulated BMDMs , trpm2 deficiency increased the expression of characteristic markers associated with the M2b phenotype , reduced the bactericidal ability , and activated the PI3K/AKT/CREB signaling pathway . Consequently , both trpm2 ( -/- ) BMDMs and trpm2 ( -/- ) mice exhibited impaired bactericidal clearance during CLP-induced sepsis . Furthermore , IPI549 attenuated TRPM2 deletion-induced M2b polarization and restored the bactericidal function of BMDMs . Notably , IPI549 preconditioning reversed the increased susceptibility of the trpm2 ( -/- ) mice to sepsis . The 7-day mortality rate was 92% in trpm2 ( -/- ) mice , compared to 42% in IPI549-pretreated trpm2 ( -/- ) mice . Moreover , IPI549-treated mice exhibited improved lung wet/dry ratios , reduced lung and liver injury scores , reversed M2b polarization and decreased bacterial load . ConclusionThe PI3K/AKT/CREB pathway mediates the effect of TRPM2 by inhibiting M2b macrophage polarization and promoting bacterial clearance during sepsis . FAU - Shen , Yanping
This study presents the first comprehensive investigation on an easily neglected biogeochemical process of phenolic endocrine-disrupting chemical ( EDC ) capture and carbon sequestration by seagrass detritus . The results showed that Zostera marina L . detritus captured nonylphenol ( NP ) and bisphenol A ( BPA ) with high efficiency ( >90% ) and enhanced organic carbon sequestration in marine ecosystems . Under various seawater-sediment scenarios ( pure seawater , nonburial , and burial systems ) , phenolic EDC rerelease rates were low ( <20% ) , while total organic carbon ( TOC ) stocks increased by 5%-8% in EDC-treated groups compared to controls . Kinetic analyses revealed that NP and BPA were rapidly captured onto heterogeneous active sites of the detritus surface , with capture efficiency influenced by the physicochemical properties of contaminants , environmental factors , and the specific characteristics of the detritus . Laser scanning confocal microscopy ( LSCM ) and density functional theory ( DFT ) were employed to investigate synergistic mechanisms between phenolic EDCs and carbon at cellular and molecular levels . The lipids mediated NP sequestration through hydrophobic interactions with lipid-rich sites ( such as phospholipids ) , while polysaccharides facilitated BPA binding via electrostatic interactions , highlighting their crucial roles in capturing phenolic EDCs . These findings reinforced the importance of seagrass meadows in capturing emerging contaminants and storing carbon in marine ecosystems . FAU - Zhang , Cui
A previous study found that repeated intrauterine infusions of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) followed by an LPS infusion into the mammary glands attenuated the mammary inflammatory response . This suggests that repeated LPS infusion into the uterus promotes endotoxin tolerance ( ET ) in the mammary gland . However , the specific changes in mammary glands under ET conditions remain unclear . We hypothesized that ET affects leukocyte function in milk . This study aimed to investigate leukocyte function in milk under ET conditions induced through repeated LPS infusions into the uterus for three days followed by LPS infusion into the mammary glands of goats . Goats in the IU group ( n = 17 ) received an infusion of 100 mug LPS in 5 ml saline into the uterus for three consecutive days ( d -3 , -2 , and -1 ) , whereas the goats in the control group did not receive this infusion ( n = 19 ) . On d 0 , 1 mug LPS in 5 ml saline was infused into the mammary glands of both groups . Milk was collected 0 , 4 , 8 , 12 , 24 , 48 , 72 , and 120 h after LPS intramammary infusion . The IU group decreased cytokine production ( interleukin ( IL ) -1beta , tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) -alpha , and IL-1Ra ) in milk following intramammary LPS infusion . Moreover , leukocyte activation , measured by phagocytic activity and CD11b expression , was higher in the IU group than in the control group . These findings suggest that goats exhibit enhanced leukocyte function in mammary glands under ET conditions , induced by repeated intrauterine infusion of LPS . FAU - Jaisue , Jirapat
A series of 3 , 4-dimethoxybenzene-based fibrate derivatives were designed and synthesized , which were screened for preliminary lipid-lowering activity in a Triton WR-1339-induced hyperlipidemic mouse model . T5 had the strongest triglyceride ( TG ) and total cholesterol ( TC ) lowering effect among these target compounds . In a dose-dependent study , the lowering effects of T5 on TG and TC were progressively enhanced with increasing doses administered . Further studies revealed that T5 had a hypolipidemic significant effect on high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced hyperlipidemia mouse model , with substantial reductions in TG , TC , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels , and a significant reduction in aspartate transaminase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) levels in the liver , which had a protective effect on the liver . The of liver pathology showed that T5 could effectively inhibit lipid accumulation as well as inflammatory infiltration in the liver , thus reducing the degree of liver tissue damage . The expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha ( PPAR-alpha ) , which regulates lipid metabolism , was significantly upregulated in liver tissues . Molecular docking assays also confirmed the high binding affinity between T5 and PPAR-alpha active sites . In addition , T5 exhibited significant anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects . These findings suggest that T5 has multiple activities and may be a potential novel hypolipidemic drug with hypolipidemic and hepatoprotective effects .
Premature aging of red wines ( PremOx ) is an emerging defect in red wines , related to the onset of cooked fruit , plum and dried figs nuances , as well as the loss of aging potential . This review is focussed on the contribute of lipid-derived compounds , mainly originating from fatty acids oxidation , to this defect . Lactones [gamma-nonalactone , massoia lactone ) , ketones ( 3-methyl-2 , 4-nonanedione , ( Z ) -1 , 5-octadien-3-one] and aldehydes [ ( 2E , 4E , 6Z ) -nonatrienal and trans-4 , 5-epoxy- ( E ) -2-decenal] are reported among the most relevant odorants involved . Their occurrence and sensory significance are discussed and their candidate precursors , as well as possible pathways of formation , involving either enzymatic or radical oxidation , are reported . The literature reports about the effect of over-ripening , light exposure , disease infections , harvesting date and wine aging conditions are also discussed . Fatty acid oxidation could be the common origin of some of the compounds related to premature aging . Applying the principles of lipid chemistry to better understand the mechanisms underlying their formation and evolution could provide useful knowledge to adapt vineyard management , harvest and winemaking techniques to the emerging issues related to climate change . ( c ) 2025 The Author ( s ) . Journal of the Science of Food and Agriculture published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of Society of Chemical Industry .
Atherosclerosis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the blood vessels caused by elevated levels of lipoproteins . The hyperlipoproteinemia triggers a series of cellular changes , particularly the activation of the macrophages , which play a crucial role in the development and progression of atherosclerosis . The presence of free cholesterol ( FC ) in lipoproteins may contribute to macrophage stimulation . However , the mechanisms linking the accumulation of FC in macrophages to their pro-inflammatory activation remain poorly understood . Our research found a positive correlation between the number of pro-inflammatory macrophages ( CD14 + CD16 + CD36 ( high ) ) in visceral adipose tissue and the levels of LDL-C and cholesterol remnant particles in 56 healthy people . In contrast , the proportion of anti-inflammatory , alternatively activated macrophages ( CD14 + CD16-CD163+ ) correlated negatively with HDL-C . Additionally , our in vitro study demonstrated that macrophages accumulating FC promoted a pro-inflammatory response , activating the TNF-alpha and chemokine CCL3 genes . Furthermore , the accumulation of FC in macrophages alters the surface receptors on macrophages ( CD206 and CD16 ) and increases cellular granularity . Notably , the CD36 surface receptor and the ACAT and CD36 genes did not show a response . These results suggest a link between excessive FC accumulation and systemic inflammation to underlie the development of atherosclerosis .
BACKGROUND : Over-oxidation of lipids can lead to an offensive rancid off-flavor . However , in view of aroma , usually , a suitable oxidation of lipids is favored for meat and the foods containing oils and fats , and a fatty note is essential for meat and fried foods . Phospholipids ( PL ) play a crucial role in imparting characteristic flavors to meat products , and egg yolk phospholipid ( EPL ) has been demonstrated as an ideal precursor for the generation of fatty note odorants . There is no report about using oleogel as a flavored oil of fatty note . RESULTS : In the present study , EPL was utilized as an oleogelator to make oleogel , and then the physical and chemical characteristics of the oleogels were investigated . Finally the potential applications of oleogel containing EPL were considered . The results of the physical characteristics of the oleogels confirmed that the oleogel containing EPL was prepared successfully ; the results of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry demonstrated that the key odorants in the heated oleogel containing EPL were significantly richer in abundance compared to the control ; P NMR and H NMR spectra indicated that EPL was susceptible to oxidative degradation , and EPL was the precursor of lipid-derived odorants . Finally , sensory analysis confirmed that oleogel containing EPL exhibited a strong fatty odor intensity . CONCLUSION : The findings of the present study indicate that oleogel containing EPL is prone to generating large quantities of desired lipid-derived odorants , thereby suggesting its potential application as a flavored oil of fatty note and meeting the aroma requirement of different foods . ( c ) 2025 Society of Chemical Industry .
BACKGROUND : V-set and immunoglobulin domain containing 4 ( VSIG4 ) is a B7-family-related protein almost exclusively expressed on macrophages . The difference in its expression mediates the dynamic transformation of the polarization state of macrophages , but the underlying mechanism is still unclear . We sought to reveal the correlation between VSIG4 and the polarization of tumour-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and the immune escape of tumour cells in colorectal cancer ( CRC ) . METHODS : THP-1 monocyte-derived macrophages expressing different levels of VSIG4 were used for in vitro investigations . In addition , the co-culture system was used to verify the effect of tumour cells on the expression of VSIG4 in macrophages , and the effect of VSIG4 expression level on tumour cells in turn . Subcutaneous xenograft models evaluated the tumour growth inhibition efficacy of VSIG4 blockade as monotherapy and combined with immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) . RESULTS : CRC cells secreted lactate to promote VSIG4 expression in macrophages . On the contrary , VSIG4 promoted macrophage M2 polarization and induced malignant progression of tumour cells by promoting M2 macrophage secretion of heparin-bound epidermal growth factor . In vivo experiments confirmed that knockdown VSIG4 inhibited tumour growth and improved the efficacy of ICIs therapy . Mechanistically , lactate secreted by CRC cells promoted its expression by influencing the epigenetic modification of VSIG4 in macrophages . In addition , VSIG4 enhanced the fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) of macrophages and upregulated PPAR-gamma expression by activating the JAK2/STAT3 pathway , which ultimately induced M2 polarization of macrophages . Downregulation of VSIG4 or blocking of FAO reversed the M2 polarization process of macrophages . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings provide a molecular basis for VSIG4 to influence TAMs polarization by regulating the reprogramming of FAO , suggesting that targeting VSIG4 in macrophages could enhance the ICIs efficacy and represent a new combination therapy strategy for immunotherapy of CRC . KEY POINTS : Colorectal cancer cells secrete lactate to upregulate VSIG4 in macrophages via the H3K18la-METTL14-m6A axis . VSIG4 promotes fatty acid oxidation of macrophages and drives its M2-type polarization . These VSIG4-expressing M2 macrophages promote tumour progression and an immunosuppressive microenvironment . Inhibition of VSIG4 expression can synergistically enhance the therapeutic effect of anti-PD-1 antibody .
OBJECTIVES : This study investigated the relationship between metabolic factors ( blood lipids and glucose ) and inflammatory indicators ( tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha] and high-sensitivity C-reactive protein [hs-CRP] ) , disease activity , and the rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) risk . METHODS : Serum fasting blood glucose ( FBG ) and lipid profiles-including total cholesterol ( Chol ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , and low-density lipoprotein-were measured in 100 RA patients and 100 healthy individuals . Disease severity was assessed using the disease activity score Inflammatory indicators ( TNF-alpha and hs-CRP ) were measured using the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay method . RESULTS : In RA patients , serum FBG , TG , Chol/HDL , and TG/HDL were significantly elevated , whereas HDL levels reduced compared to healthy individuals . Multivariate analysis indicated that each unit increase in serum FBG , HDL , Chol/HDL , and TG/HDL was associated with a 64% increase ( p<001 ) , a 7% reduction ( p=001 ) , a 52% increase ( p=007 ) , and a 54% increase ( p=001 ) in the odds of RA , respectively . Disease activity showed no correlation with metabolic factors ( p>05 ) . Among all metabolic factors studied , FBG had the largest area under the curve ( 981 ) ( p<0001 ) for predicting RA . Across the total participant group , FBG , TG , and TG/HDL were positively associated with hs-CRP and TNF-alpha ( p<05 ) . HDL showed an inverse association with hs-CRP ( p=008 ) . Among RA patients specifically , TNF-alpha positively correlated with TG and TG/HDL , while hs-CRP correlated only with TG/HDL . CONCLUSION : These findings indicate that increased FBG and Chol/HDL and decreased HDL may elevate RA risk by promoting systemic inflammation . Among these , elevated FBG may serve as the strongest predictor of RA risk . FAU - Kheirouri , Sorayya
Abnormal aggregation of tau protein into beta-sheet amyloid fibrils is closely associated with Alzheimer ' s disease and other tauopathies . Interactions between tau and cell membranes can lead to accelerated fibrillization and membrane deformation , serving as a toxicity pathway for tau aggregation . The tau fibril-nucleating core motif PHF6 ( VQIVYK ) has been reported to play a key role in tau-membrane interactions . However , the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unexplored , and the effect of terminal capping on PHF6-membrane interactions has often been overlooked . Herein , we performed extensive all-atom molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the interactions between four PHF6 terminal acetylation-amidation variant fibrils and a mixed POPC/POPG membrane . Our simulations highlight the pivotal role of N-terminal capping in modulating the membrane binding of PHF6 fibrils ( bilayer beta-sheets ) , as well as the resulting fibril stabilization and membrane disruption . We find that regardless of their C-terminal amidation states , the N-terminally acetylated PHF6 ( Ac-PHF6 and Ac-PHF6-NH ) fibrils are prone to bind to the membrane surface through electrostatic attraction between cationic side chains of K311 and anionic POPG lipids . This membrane binding reduces the dynamics of PHF6 fibril compared to that in solution , thus facilitating inter- and intrasheet interactions , and in turn stabilizes the overall fibril structure . In contrast , the N-terminally nonacetylated PHF6 ( PHF6 and PHF6-NH ) fibrils tend to insert into membranes via their cationic N-termini . This membrane insertion favors PHF6 intrasheet interactions but disfavors intersheet interactions due to the interference of lipid molecules during the insertion process and causes more severe membrane disruption than N-terminally acetylated PHF6 fibrils . Additionally , MD simulations on N-terminally nonacetylated PHF6 protofibrils ( single-layer parallel beta-sheets ) show that membrane binding stabilizes the protofibrils , which are unstable in aqueous solution . These findings provide comprehensive atomistic insights into the role of terminal capping in membrane-associated tau peptide fibrillization and cytotoxicity . FAU - Pan , Tong
BACKGROUND : Proximal humerus fractures ( PHFs ) are the third most common fractures in elderly patients . Over 70% of PHFs in patients aged over 60 are displaced fractures , often necessitating surgical treatment . However , osteosynthesis is associated with a high rate of complications , highlighting the urgent need for additional therapeutic approaches to enhance bone healing and prevent osteonecrosis . This study evaluates the safety , feasibility and potential efficacy of local prostacyclin ( iloprost ) to improve bone healing in patients with PHFs . METHODS : Thirty eligible patients will be randomized into one of three groups at a 1 : 1 : 1 ratio . All patients will receive angular stable locking plate fixation . Two treatment groups will receive an additional single dose of local iloprost through a 24-hour infusion postoperatively ( group 1 : low dose ; group 2 : high dose ) , while the control group will only receive the osteosynthesis . Patients will be monitored for 52 weeks . The primary endpoint is safety , with secondary endpoints including the preservation of the screw tip apex distance as an indicator of fracture healing , head shaft angle , necrosis rate , and patient-related outcome measures . DISCUSSION : The Ilobone study aims to provide data on the potential for biological augmentation of osteosynthesis procedures in PHFs , prone to healing challenges and complications . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The trial is registered with ClinicalTrial . gov ( NCT04543682 ) , registered 02 Sep . 2020 , https : //clinicaltrials . gov/show/NCT04543682 and the German Clinical Trials Registry ( DRKS00027081 ) , registered 10 Nov . 2021 https : //drks . de/search/de/trial/DRKS00027081 .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic retinopathy ( DR ) is a progressive retinal disease that leads to vision loss if not detected early . Metabolomic analysis of vitreous humor offers a promising approach to identifying biomarkers associated with disease onset and progression . This pilot study investigates the metabolomic profiles of vitreous humor from patients at different stages of DR , aiming to uncover potential biomarkers for early detection and monitoring of disease progression . METHODS : Vitreous samples were collected during therapeutic pars plana vitrectomy of 23 patients without diabetes ( CTRL ) , with diabetes and without retinopathy ( DIA ) , non-proliferative DR ( NPDR ) and proliferative DR ( PDR ) . Metabolomics was performed using high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry . RESULTS : Principal component analysis revealed distinct metabolic signatures differentiating the patient groups . Lysine , proline , and arginine levels progressively increased from DIA to NPDR and PDR stages , highlighting their association with disease progression . Methionine and threonine showed notable increases in PDR compared to all other groups , while carnitine , a key metabolite in lipid metabolism , exhibited stage-specific increases , peaking in PDR . The detection of systemic and topical drugs , including metformin and tropicamide , in the vitreous further emphasizes altered ocular permeability in DR . CONCLUSION : Our findings suggest that metabolomic profiling could provide valuable insights into the underlying pathogenesis of DR and serve as a foundation for personalized therapeutic strategies .
BACKGROUND : Genetic factors and an unfavorable intrauterine environment may contribute to the development of metabolic disorders in offspring later in life . The present study aims to investigate and compare the risks of pre-diabetes mellitus ( pre-DM ) , type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) and abnormal glucose tolerance in female and male offspring with early maternal menopausal age versus those with normal maternal menopausal age , later in life . METHODS : In this prospective population-based study , there were 1 , 516 females and 1 , 563 males with normal maternal menopausal age , as well as 213 females and 237 males with early maternal menopausal age . Unadjusted and adjusted cox regression models were used to assess the hazard ratios ( HRs ) and 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) for the association between early maternal menopausal age with pre-DM , T2DM and abnormal glucose tolerance in offspring . Statistical analysis was performed using the STATA software package ; the significance level was set at P < RESULTS : The present study revealed a higher risk of pre-DM in female offspring with early maternal menopausal age compared to females with normal maternal menopausal age ( unadjusted HR ( 95% CI ) : 42 ( 98 , 05 ) ; P = 06 ( marginal significant ) and adjusted HR ( 95% CI ) : 47 ( 00 , 16 ) ; P = 04 ) . Additionally , a higher risk of abnormal glucose tolerance among female offspring with early maternal menopausal age in adjusted model was observed ( HR ( 95% CI ) : 13 ( 99-29 ) ; P = 06 , marginal significant ) . However , no significant differences were observed in the risks of developing pre-DM and abnormal glucose tolerance in male offspring with early maternal menopausal age compared to males with normal maternal menopausal age in both unadjusted and adjusted models . No significant difference was observed in the risk of T2DM in the offspring with early maternal menopausal age compared to offspring with normal maternal menopausal age . CONCLUSIONS : This pioneering study , characterized by a long-term follow-up , demonstrated that early maternal menopausal age is associated with an increased risk of developing pre-DM in female offspring later in life . It may be advisable to implement screening for pre-DM and glucose metabolism disorders in these female offspring . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : Breast cancer neoadjuvant therapy may negatively impact the immune system . As a secondary outcome of the docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) for women with breast cancer in the neoadjuvant setting ( DHA-WIN trial ) , we sought to assess the effects of an intervention with DHA on parameters of immune function of women undergoing neoadjuvant therapy . METHODS : Women with early-stage breast cancer in the neoadjuvant setting were recruited for the DHA-WIN trial and randomly assigned to receive either 4 g/day of DHA or a placebo for 18 weeks in conjunction with their neoadjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer . Venous blood was collected to isolate peripheral blood mononuclear cells . Immune parameters were assessed by measuring white blood cell concentration , flow cytometry , and cytokines concentration after mitogen-stimulated immune response . RESULTS : In the placebo group the proportion of T cells ( CD3 + ) , and functionally active monocytes ( CD14 + HLA-DR + ) was reduced at the last cycle of chemotherapy ( 15 weeks ) but remained constant in the DHA group ( P interaction < 05 ) . The neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) was maintained in the DHA group but increased in the placebo at the end of chemotherapy ( P-interaction = 02 ) . An increase in this ratio was associated with lower chance of achieving pathological complete response ( OR = 32 , 95% CI [14 , 16] , P = 01 ) . After 15 weeks of therapy , the DHA-supplemented group had higher concentrations of stimulated cytokines IL-4 , IL-10 , and the T helper type 1 cytokine IFN-gamma after phytohemagglutinin ( PHA ) challenge , and higher concentrations of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma cytokines after lipopolysaccharide exposure ( P < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Supplementing DHA during breast cancer neoadjuvant chemotherapy improved systemic immune function by attenuating changes in blood cell concentrations , preventing depletion of immune cells , and enhancing ex vivo cytokine secretion after stimulation .
OBJECTIVE : Prior evidence suggests that dietary lignans may mitigate inflammation , attenuate insulin resistance , and improve blood lipids . Little is known about the effects of lignans in pregnant women who are at elevated risk of glucose and lipid abnormalities , partially due to increase in estrogen levels during pregnancy . This study was designed to investigate the association between dietary lignan intake , measured as urinary enterolignans ( enterodiol and enterolactone ) , with blood biomarkers of cardiometabolic risks in pregnant women . RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : We analyzed data from 480 pregnant women who participated in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) 1999-2010 and had data for urinary enterolignan concentrations . Multivariable linear regression analyses were used to examine the association between urinary enterolignan concentrations and cardiometabolic risk biomarkers . Cardiometabolic risk markers were log-transformed and geometric means were calculated by quartiles of urinary enterolignan concentrations . RESULTS : Higher urinary enterolignan concentrations were associated with a more beneficial cardiometabolic profile : comparing women in the highest versus lowest quartiles of total enterolignan concentrations , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) was 62 versus 54 mg/dL ( P for trend = 01 ) ; triacylglycerol ( TG ) was 141 versus 171 mg/dL ( P for trend = 004 ) ; TG/HDL-C ratio was 3 versus 2 ( P for trend = 001 ) ; Total cholesterol ( TC ) /HDL-C ratio was 4 versus 9 ( P for trend = 03 ) ; C-reactive protein ( CRP ) was 4 versus 7 mg/dL ( P for trend = 01 ) ; and fasting insulin was 7 versus 9 muU/mL ( P for trend < 0001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Lignan intake may have favorable effects on cardiometabolic risk markers in pregnant women . KEY MESSAGES : The results of our study showed that urinary excretion of enterolignans were inversely associated with cardiometabolic risk markers in pregnant women . These findings support further investigation on the role of lignans in modifying lipid and glucose metabolism . Given the high prevalence of maternal insulin resistance and hyperlipidemia and its serious health consequences for both women and their offspring , the use of lignans , if demonstrated to be efficacious , could provide a cost-effective option for curbing this epidemic by prevention and early treatment .
BACKGROUND : Seed oils are widely used in the food , biofuel , and industrial feedstock industries , with their utility and value determined by total oil content and fatty acid composition . Current high throughput seed oil analysis methods either lack accuracy in total fatty acid profiling or require extensive labor for lipid extraction prior to derivatization to fatty acid methyl esters ( FAME ) and quantification by gas chromatography ( GC ) . Alternatively , direct whole seed FAME production methods have been developed for the very small seeds in the model species Arabidopsis thaliana but these have generally not been adapted to larger seeds of most oilseed crops . RESULTS : High-throughput direct whole seed FAME production methods were optimized for seeds up to 5 mg each utilizing acid-catalyzed esterification . For the oilseed species Camelina sativa , Thlaspi avernse ( pennycress ) , Cuphea viscosissima , and Brassica napus ( var . Canola ) , the total seed fatty acid content and composition from direct seed esterification to FAME matched that of lipid extract derivatization demonstrating the accuracy of the methods . In combination with seed phenotyping using GridFree , this approach enabled the development of a rapid pipeline for simultaneous seed weight , count , size/shape phenotyping , and oil analysis . For the larger and tougher seeds produced by Limnanthes alba ( Meadowfoam ) and Cannabis sativa L . ( hemp ) the whole seed acid-based method proved insufficient , and prior laborious homogenization of seeds was required . Therefore , a rapid one-tube bead homogenization and base catalyzed-esterification method was developed . Base-derived fatty acid esterification cannot derivatize free fatty acids leading to slightly lower total seed fatty acid than acid-catalyzed methods , however the seed oil content and fatty acid composition that is valuable for screening large numbers of samples in research populations was accurately measured . CONCLUSIONS : New rapid whole seed fatty acid esterification and phenotyping protocols were developed to accurately assess oilseed lipid content . These methods are particularly valuable in oilseed research , breeding , and engineering applications where efficient analysis of large numbers of samples and accurate oil fatty acid profiling is essential . While having been developed for current and emerging oilseed crops , these methods also provide a foundation from which protocols might be established for new and emerging crop species .
Membrane contact sites are specialized regions where organelle membranes are in close proximity , enabling lipid transfer while preserving membrane identity . In plants , ERchloroplast contact sites are critical for maintaining glycerolipid homeostasis . This review examines the lipid-modifying and lipid-transfer proteins/complexes involved in these processes . Key proteins at these sites , including components of the TGD and VAP27ORP2A complexes , as well as Sec14 proteins , facilitate lipid exchange . Additionally , the roles of lipid-modifying proteins at these contact sites are discussed . Despite significant progress , further research is needed to identify additional proteins , investigate ERchloroplast dynamics under stress and explore ER contact sites in non-chloroplast plastids .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic oral ulceration ( DOU ) is a prevalent and debilitating complication among diabetic patients , significantly impairing their quality of life and imposing substantial economic burdens . Studies indicate that over 90% of diabetic patients experience oral complications , with 45% suffering from oral ulcers . Clear diagnosis is crucial for effective clinical management and prognosis improvement . However , current diagnostic methods often fall short in early detection and intervention . Machine learning ( ML ) has shown promise in predicting disease development , yet no relevant predictive models for DOU have been established . METHODS : This study aimed to develop an ML-based predictive model for DOU using oral examination , clinical , and socioeconomic data . The dataset included 324 diabetic patients , with 127 DOU features . One-hundred-fold cross-validation was employed for model optimization and feature selection . Data preprocessing involved handling missing values , scaling different range values , and feature selection using techniques such as Variance Threshold ( VT ) , Mutual Information ( MI ) , and Variance Inflation Factor ( VIF ) . Four prediction models , Support Vector Machine Classifier ( SVC ) , Multi-layer Perceptron ( MLP ) , Logistic Regression Classifier ( LogReg ) , and Perceptron , were established and evaluated . RESULTS : The SVC model outperformed the other models , achieving an accuracy ( ACC ) of 95 and an area under the ROC curve ( AUC ) of The top five features contributing to the model ' s predictions were the current number of oral ulcers , diminished oral functional capacity , number of decayed or missing teeth , possession of health insurance ( commercial ) , and Low-Density Lipoprotein ( LDL-C ) , accounting for 32% of the total importance . Oral examination indicators accounted for 46% , serum lipid markers for 93% , and sociodemographic factors , personal lifestyles , and cardiovascular diseases also played significant roles . CONCLUSION : The SVC model demonstrated superior performance and stability , making it suitable for predicting DOU occurrence and development in diabetic patients . This study ' s innovation lies in the comprehensive evaluation of multiple factors , including oral examinations , physiological indicators , self-management capabilities , and economic factors , to facilitate efficient DOU screening . The findings highlight the potential of ML in improving diagnostic accuracy and enabling timely interventions for DOU , ultimately contributing to better clinical management and patient outcomes . Future research should focus on validating the model across larger , multicenter cohorts and further exploring the long-term impact of ML-guided interventions on DOU management .
BACKGROUND : Scabies , sarcoptic itch , is a highly contagious and pruritic skin inflammation . Given their ecological benefits and previous therapeutic properties , essential oils are worth investigating as potentially safer alternatives to synthetic anti-scabies agents . OBJECTIVES : This study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of three essential oils derived from cassia barks , myrrh oleo-gum-resin , and fennel fruits against Sarcoptes scabiei ( Linnaeus , 1758 ) , the causative agent of scabies , using lemongrass and clove essential oils as standards . Additionally , the study explored the structure-activity relationship by characterizing the chemical compositions of these essential oils . Further , a molecular docking study was performed to get further insights into the mechanism of the scabicidal effect of the active essential oils . METHODS : Essential oils were extracted by hydro-distillation from dried cassia , myrrh , and fennel using the Clevenger apparatus , and their chemical profiles were characterized using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) analysis . The contact bioassay method was utilized to assess their scabicidal activities . The molecular docking study incorporated two target enzymes , glutathione transferase ( GST ) and inactive serine proteases of scabies mite ( SMIPP-S-D1 ) . This is owing to the involvement of these two enzymes in the scabies defense mechanisms . RESULTS : The GC-MS analysis identified ( E ) -cinnamaldehyde as the primary constituent in cassia essential oil , while beta-ocimene , alpha-copaene , and trans-alpha-bisabolene were major components of myrrh essential oil . Fennel essential oil predominantly consisted of estragole . The contact bioassay demonstrated noteworthy scabicidal activities of cassia and myrrh essential oils , against all tested stages of S . scabiei . The docking analysis revealed higher binding affinities between the main phytochemicals of these active essential oils and GST , with binding scores ranging from - 7 to - 3 kcal/mol , compared to lemongrass and clove essential oils ' main components . Additionally , these components displayed favorable binding affinities to SMIPP-S-D1 ranging from - 5 to - 0 kcal/mol , comparable to lemongrass and clove essential oils ' main components . These findings suggest that cassia and myrrh essential oils could inhibit the defense mechanisms of scabies mites . CONCLUSION : These findings revealed the potential for anti-scabies of essential oils from cassia bark and myrrh oleo-gum-resin , which could effectively control scabies . The Docking analysis showed strong to moderate binding affinities of major components of cassia and myrrh essential oils towards GST and SMIPP-S-D1 enzymes .
Ferroptosis is a novel iron-dependent type of programmed cell death that is characterized by the oxidation of lipids by divalent iron ions to produce lipid peroxides , which leads to cell death . Fucosyltransferase 11 ( FUT11 ) is highly expressed in most tumors and is involved in tumorigenesis . However , there have been few studies regarding the relationship between FUT11 and ferroptosis . In this study , we found that FUT11 expression was abnormally high in gastric cancer ( GC ) cells and that the prognosis of patients with GC and high expression of FUT11 was poor . FUT11 expression was significantly correlated with the TNM stage of GC . Specific knockdown of FUT11 significantly inhibited the proliferation of GC cells , reduced the abundance of the key anti-ferroptotic protein glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , induced lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis in GC cells , and inhibited the proliferation of these cells . The overexpression of GPX4 reduced the inhibitory effect of FUT11 on GC cells . In addition , the knockdown of FUT11 significantly inhibited GC tumor growth in mice , and this inhibitory effect was reduced by the overexpression of GPX In conclusion , we have shown that FUT11 promotes GC progression by targeting GPX4 , thereby inhibiting ferroptosis in GC cells . These findings suggest that FUT11 is a potential therapeutic target for GC .
OBJECTIVE : Lubiprostone is a selective intestinal chloride channel activator approved for treating chronic idiopathic constipation and constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome in adults . However , real-world data on its long-term safety , particularly regarding adverse events necessitating ongoing supplementation , remain limited . METHODS : Data from the FDA Adverse Event Reporting System ( FAERS ) database were collected from the second quarter of 2006 to the fourth quarter of The data was normalized , and various signal quantification techniques such as Reporting Odds Ratio ( ROR ) , Proportional Reporting Ratio ( PRR ) , Bayesian Confidence Propagation Neural Network ( BCPNN ) , and Multi-Item Gamma Poisson Shrinker ( MGPS ) were used for analysis . RESULTS : A total of 1436 adverse event reports associated with lubiprostone were extracted from the FAERS database . These reports indicated a higher proportion of female patients compared to male patients ( 39% vs . 10% ) . Among those with explicit age data , the largest proportion of patients were 45-65 years old ( 6% of reports ) , followed by those >/= 75 ( 9% ) , 18-45 ( 8% ) , and 65-75 years ( 1% ) . Adverse events induced by lubiprostone were observed in 24 System Organ Classes ( SOCs ) , including common gastrointestinal disorders , general disorders , administration site conditions , as well as respiratory , thoracic , and mediastinal disorders , consistent with findings from clinical trials . Applying four algorithms simultaneously , 22 SOC ( S ) were detected , revealing a total of 57 positive response items , including 22 related to the digestive system . The most stringent algorithm , empirical Bayesian geometric mean ( EBGM ) , highlighted severe gastrointestinal adverse reactions like gastric fistula ( n = 5 , ROR = 03 , PRR = 87 , IC = 21 , EBGM = 71 ) and ischemic colitis ( n = 19 , ROR = 78 , PRR = 63 , IC = 19 , EBGM = 51 ) , which were not listed in the drug insert . This suggests the need for heightened vigilance towards these potential adverse reactions during clinical use . CONCLUSIONS : Our study comprehensively evaluated the safety of lubiprostone in the post-marketing setting . Despite its therapeutic advantages , there is a potential for various systemic adverse effects . In addition to adverse events consistent with information from existing clinical trials and the insert , we discovered several serious localized adverse reactions and previously unreported systemic adverse reactions . These may be potentially associated with lubiprostone , but are not confirmed adverse effects . This will provide valuable evidence for future studies and further prospective clinical trials to confirm these results and elucidate the relationship between them , thus better guiding the clinical practice of lubiprostone .
Targeting gut microbiota is an innovative approach to mitigate the development of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease-associated hepatocellular carcinoma ( MASLD-HCC ) . This study aims to investigate the effects of Prohep , a probiotic mixture , both as a prophylactic measure and as an adjuvant therapy for low-dose sorafenib . A MASLD-HCC mice model was established by diethylnitrosamine ( DEN ) injection with feeding of a high-fat high-cholesterol ( HFHC ) diet . Gut microbiome profiles were later identified through shotgun sequencing . Our findings demonstrated that Prohep supplementation effectively suppressed MASLD-HCC development in mice . This protective effect was attributed to the modulation of gut microbiota and the increased production of short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , propionate , and valerate . Prohep also activated AMPK , which decreased lipogenesis , reduced lipid uptake , and enhanced antioxidant enzyme expressions . Additionally , the cancer proliferation pathway PI3K/mTOR was inhibited in response to Prohep treatment . As an adjuvant therapy , Prohep improved the efficacy of low-dose sorafenib , as indicated by reduced tumor counts , alleviated inflammation , and increased hepatic superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) expression . The combination led to enhanced butyrate production , contributing to the overall therapeutic effects , thanks to the gut microbiota modulatory effects of Prohep . These results underscore Prohep ' s anti-tumorigenic properties and its potential to enhance the therapeutic outcomes of low-dose sorafenib in MASLD-HCC treatment . The study highlights the importance of gut microbiota modulation for developing effective neoadjuvant therapies and long-term management strategies for MASLD-HCC .
Metabolic rewiring is a hallmark of malignant transformation in leukemic cells and the potential offered by its therapeutic targeting has garnered significant attention . The development of clinically relevant metabolic targeted therapies in acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) has mostly focused on targeting mitochondrial energy production , but progress has been hampered by generalized toxicities . An alternative strategy is to shift the focus from targeting energy production to targeting more specialized metabolic functions , such as energy storage , the regulation of oxidative stress and availability of cofactors needed for the function of specific metabolic reactions . Lipid metabolism plays a role in many of these metabolic functions and its importance in AML maintenance and response to therapy is being increasingly recognized but needs to be adequately interpreted in the context of its interaction with the microenvironment , particularly the adipose niche . In this review , we provide an overview of our current understanding of AML cellular metabolic dependencies on fatty acid and lipid metabolism and discuss their relevance in the context of functional interactions with adipocytes . We highlight unresolved questions about how to best target lipid metabolism and suggest approaches needed to fully understand the interplay between malignant cells and their niche in the context of metabolic dependencies .
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Evidence on the long-term associations between common fats and oils and cardiometabolic health is lacking . We evaluated the associations of butter , margarine , and non-hydrogenated oils with cardiometabolic risk ( CMR ) and the development of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) and type 2 diabetes ( T2DM ) in the Framingham Offspring cohort . METHODS/SUBJECTS : We included 2459 subjects ( >/=30 years ) with valid three-day food records . Multivariable Cox proportional hazards models were used to compute hazard ratios for incident CVD and T2DM over ~18 years ; analysis of covariance was used to estimate adjusted mean levels of CMR factors ( adiposity , insulin resistance , fasting glucose , lipids ) over four years associated with baseline intakes of butter , margarine , and non-hydrogenated oils . RESULTS : Higher intakes of butter ( >5 vs . 0 g/day ) were associated with less insulin resistance ( p = 0011 ) , higher HDL-C levels ( p = 0021 ) , lower triglycerides ( TG ) ( p = 0032 ) , and lower TG : HDL ratio ( p = 0052 ) , as well as a 31% lower risk of T2DM ( 95% CI : 49 , 97 ) . Higher margarine intakes ( >7 vs . <2 g/day ) were associated with a 29% increased risk of CVD ( 95% CI : 02 , 63 ) and a 41% increased risk of T2DM ( 95% CI : 02 , 95 ) . Lastly , higher consumption of non-hydrogenated oils ( >7 vs . </=2 g/day ) was associated with a 6 kg/m higher BMI and 8 mg/dL higher LDL-C levels . CONCLUSIONS : More than one teaspoon ( 5 g ) of butter/day was beneficially associated with several CMR factors and a lower T2DM risk , while margarine was associated with an increased risk of both CVD and T2DM . These findings suggest butter may be a healthier dietary fat source for the benefit of CMR .
The plasticity of living cell membranes relies on complex metabolic networks fueled by cellular energy . These metabolic processes exert direct control over membrane properties such as lipid composition and morphological plasticity , which are essential for cellular functions . Despite notable progress in the development of artificial systems mimicking natural membranes , the realization of synthetic membranes capable of sustaining metabolic cycles remains a challenge . Here we present an abiotic phospholipid metabolic network that generates and maintains dynamic artificial cell membranes . Chemical coupling agents drive the in situ synthesis of transiently stable non-canonical phospholipids , leading to the formation and maintenance of phospholipid membranes . We find that phospholipid metabolic cycles can drive lipid self-selection , favouring the enrichment of specific lipid species . Moreover , we demonstrate that controlling lipid metabolism can induce reversible membrane phase transitions , facilitating lipid mixing between distinct populations of artificial membranes . Our work demonstrates that a simple lipid metabolic network can drive dynamic behaviour in artificial membranes , offering insights into mechanisms for engineering functional synthetic compartments .
Increasing evidence reveals that multiple or prolonged exposure to ketamine causes hippocampal damage and cognitive dysfunction . However , the critical mechanisms underlying ketamine-induced neurotoxicity in the developing brain remain elusive . The present study was designed to investigate the role of GPX4 in ketamine-induced pyroptosis and cognitive dysfunction in the developing rat hippocampus . To achieve this goal , we conducted Western blotting , ELISA tests , histopathological analysis , Morris water maze tests , cell viability assays , and biochemical analyses on PC12 cells , HAPI cells , and 7-day-old rats . Additionally , N-acetylcysteine ( NAC ) and RSL3 were administered prior to continuous ketamine exposure . Our findings indicate that GPX4 inhibition by RSL3 enhances lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial damage , activates NLRP3/caspase-1 axis-dependent pyroptosis , and exacerbates hippocampal damage and cognitive dysfunction following ketamine exposure , while NAC effectively mitigates the effects of RSL Collectively , our in vivo and in vitro results support the notion that GPX4 may serve as a negative regulator of pyroptosis in ketamine-induced hippocampal damage and cognitive dysfunction . Our study proposes a novel strategy for treating ketamine-induced neurotoxicity through upregulating GPX4 expression .
This study examined the different effects of high-fat and capsicum diets on the digestive organs of guinea pigs . Hartley guinea pigs ( n = 24 ) were divided into the high-fat diet ( HFD ) , capsicum diet ( CD ) , and control ( C ) groups . Guinea pigs in the C , HFD , and CD groups received maintenance feed , high-fat , and capsicum diets , respectively . After 12 weeks of modelling , serum samples were collected for biochemical analysis . Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to quantify interleukin-1beta , interleukin-6 , and tumour necrosis factor-alpha , while haematoxylin-eosin staining was used to observe morphological changes . Blood lipid levels and inflammatory markers in the serum of guinea pigs in HFD and CD groups were significantly elevated than those in the serum of guinea pigs in the C group ( P < 01 ) . Inflammation and blood lipid disorders were more severe among guinea pigs in the HFD group than among those in the CD and C groups ( P < 001 ) . Pathological examinations revealed that high-fat and capsicum diets induce damage to the liver , stomach , gallbladder , and colon . Specifically , high-fat diets exhibited more significant effects . High-fat or capsicum diet consumption can damage the digestive organs , causing abnormal lipid metabolism ; however , high-fat diets exhibit more significant effects on the digestive organs .
The combination of atorvastatin ( ATO ) and aspirin ( ASP ) is widely prescribed for preventing cardiovascular diseases , particularly in individuals at risk of atherosclerosis and myocardial infarction . This study aims to develop and validate an eco-friendly spectrofluorimetric method using the first-derivative synchronous fluorescence ( FDSSF ) technique ( Deltalambda = 80 nm ) to simultaneously determine ATO and ASP in combined pharmaceutical formulations . A simple , rapid , cost-effective , and interference-free FDSSF method was employed . Ethanol was used as a green solvent , with a scanning rate of 500 nm/min and Deltalambda of 80 nm . Distinct fluorescence peaks for ATO and ASP were observed at 384 nm and 365 nm , respectively . The method was optimized for parameters influencing fluorescence intensity , ensuring enhanced sensitivity and selectivity . The method demonstrated excellent linearity ( 4-6 mug/ml for ATO , 1-10 mug/ml for ASP ) with high sensitivity , as indicated by low LOD ( 03 mug/ml for ATO , 342 mug/ml for ASP ) and LOQ ( 248 mug/ml for ATO , 714 mug/ml for ASP ) . The method was successfully applied to commercial tablet formulations and synthetic mixtures , yielding results comparable to HPLC , confirming its high accuracy and reproducibility . Environmental Assessment : The method was evaluated for " greenness " ( AGREE , Complex MOGAPI , NEMI ) , " whiteness " ( RGB12 ) , and " blueness " ( BAGI ) , achieving high sustainability scores . The results confirmed its minimal environmental impact and eco-friendly nature . The FDSSF method provides a green , accurate , and reliable approach for simultaneously determining ATO and ASP in pharmaceuticals , offering high sensitivity , exceptional selectivity , and environmental sustainability .
Schizophrenia , a pervasive mental health condition , poses a global challenge to individual well-being . The intricate interplay of schizophrenia with the aging process is characterized by a shortened lifespan , underscoring the urgent need for an in-depth exploration of the underlying biological mechanisms that contribute to the unique aging trajectory within this specific patient population . Currently , this crucial aspect remains largely unexplored . To bridge this knowledge gap , in the present study , serum samples from of 29 subjects with schizophrenia were analysed via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) and compared with those of 30 nonpsychiatric controls . This exploratory analysis of circulating blood serum , albeit based on a limited sample size , provides valuable insights into the significantly altered molecular pathways linked to schizophrenia and clarifies the unique aspects of aging in the context of this particular disease . The data presented in this study constitute a compilation of molecular alterations associated with schizophrenia across the human lifespan . By distinguishing between schizophrenia patients and nonpsychiatric controls , we identified a panel of 342 differentially abundant metabolites and 544 differentially expressed proteins . Our pathway enrichment analysis was focused primarily on histone acetylation , the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway , the dopamine receptor signaling pathway , and fatty acid beta-oxidation , highlighting their pivotal roles in schizophrenia . Furthermore , we conducted a co-occurrence analysis of these metabolites and proteins , aiming to elucidate their connection with accelerated aging processes . This analysis revealed the involvement of metabolic pathways crucial for lipid metabolism , such as the peroxisome and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) signaling pathways , as well as neurotransmitter-related metabolic pathways influencing tryptophan metabolism and the dopaminergic synapse pathway . The findings significantly increase our understanding of the intricate molecular mechanisms underlying schizophrenia and its co-occurring comorbidities across the spectrum of aging , providing insights into the dynamics of the progression of this complex disorder . However , this study has certain limitations , particularly the lack of its findings and the relatively small sample size , especially in the proteomic analysis .
Lipid nanoparticle RNA ( LNP-RNA ) formulations are used for the delivery of vaccines and other therapies . RNA molecules are encapsulated within their interior through electrostatic interactions with positively charged lipids . The identity of the lipids that present at their surface play a role in how they interact with and are perceived by the body and their resultant potency . Here , we use a model formulation to develop cryogenic sample preparation for molecular depth profiling Orbitrap secondary ion mass spectrometry ( Cryo-OrbiSIMS ) preceded by morphological characterisation using cryogenic transmission electron microscopy ( Cryo-TEM ) . It is found that the depth distribution of individual lipid components is revealed relative to the surface and the RNA cargo defining the core . A preferential lipid orientation can be determined for the 1 , 2-Dimyristoyl-glycero-3-methox-polyethylene glycol 2000 ( DMG-PEG2k ) molecule , by comparing the profiles of PEG to DMG fragments . PEG fragments are found immediately during analysis of the LNP surface , while the DMG fragments are deeper , coincident with RNA ions located in the core , in agreement with established models of LNPs . This laboratory-based de novo analysis technique requires no labelling , providing advantages over large facility neutron scattering characterisation .
The emerging fungal pathogen Candida auris is notorious for environmental persistence , which is a major contributor to outbreaks in healthcare settings . Here we report that giant lipid droplets ( gLDs ) inside C . auris cells play critical roles in the ability to survive harsh environments . C . auris cells that contain gLDs exhibit an increased tolerance to environmental stresses , antifungals , and host-associated antimicrobial peptides . These cells often undergo significant cell wall remodeling and sloughing of the outer layer of the cell wall . Lipidomics analysis indicates that cells with gLDs contain a significantly higher level of triacylglycerols , sterol esters , and other lipids , such as glycerolipids , sphingolipids , and sterol lipids . At the transcriptional level , a large set of differentially expressed genes was observed between C . auris cells with and without gLDs . Our study reveals that gLDs are a new strategy used by C . auris to adapt to stressful conditions and to persist in hospital environments .
Genomic alterations in tumor cells can influence immune response , as has been demonstrated in several tumor types . For instance , mutations in certain genes like EGFR or B-RAF are associated with a particular immune phenotype . Non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) is one of the most immunogenic tumors , but certain genomic alterations can modulate and influence immune response . In the present work , we explore the transcriptomic landscape and immunologic profile of NSCLC with molecular alterations in SMARCA Using the TCGA repository we exploited their analysis with R and other available packages . cBioPortal was used to explore and analyze the mutational profile present in those tumors The prognostic value of identified genes in patients treated with immunotherapy was evaluated using the KMplotter online tool , and for correlations with immune populations TIMER 0 was interrogated . In lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) and squamous cell carcinoma ( LUSC ) disruptive mutations in SMARCA4 were presented in 8% , and 4% of the cases , respectively . Gene deletions were observed in 1% of the population . The transcriptomic profile in LUAD and LUSC with deletions or disruptive mutations was explored . Interrogating TCGA using a 5 gene expression fold change ( FC ) we observed five genes commonly upregulated , and thirty-one genes commonly decreased when SMARCA4 was mutated or CNV loss was present . Enriched biological functions for downregulated genes included " Antigen processing and presentation , endogenous lipid antigen via MHC class Ib . Expression of CD1A , CD1C , CD1E , CX3CR1 , and MYO1G showed a strong positive correlation with dendritic cells ( DC ) and dendritic cells resting ( DCR ) . The increased expression of gene signatures formed by these transcripts resulted in a better prognosis in a set of patients with different tumors treated with anti-PD1 therapies , including 21 non-small cell lung cancers . We evaluated genomic alterations and transcriptomic patterns of SMARCA4 alterations in NSCLC tumors , identifying a relevant immunologic downregulated gene set linked with antigen presentation that predicts response to anti-PD1 therapies .
The challenge of early detection and stratification in Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is urgent due to the current emergence of mechanism-based disease-modifying treatments . In here , metabolomic and lipidomic parameters obtained by a standardized and targeted in vitro diagnostic research ( IVDr ) platform have a significant potential to address therapy-related questions and generate improved biomarker panels . Our study aimed to use IVDr nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) spectroscopy to quantify metabolites and lipoproteins in PD blood serum from different cohorts to stratify metabolically driven subtypes of idiopathic and genetic PD . Serum aliquots from three neurodegeneration biobank cohorts ( 287 samples in total , including 62 PD patient samples with GBA mutation , 98/43 PD patient samples of early/late stages of disease duration , 20 PD samples from patients with mutations in recessive PD genes and some smaller subgroups of mitochondrial and double mutation cases ) were prepared and analyzed with IVDr NMR spectroscopy , covering 39 blood serum metabolites and 112 lipoprotein parameters . Uni- and multivariate statistics were used to identify metabolism-driven changes under consideration of typical confounders such as age , sex and disease duration and set into context with clinical biomarkers such as CSF concentrations of alpha-synuclein , neurofilament light chain , and tau protein . Based on the different PD subgroups we performed a total of eight different comparisons . Highlights from these comparisons include increased citrate and dimethylglycine with a decrease of creatinine and methionine in healthy controls and early PD group compared to GBA , PD late and recessive PD . We furthermore identified decreased HDL-3 free cholesterol in genetic PD cases compared to sporadic subject samples ( sum of the PD early and PD late groups ) . Considering medication , we found that the levodopa equivalent daily dose ( LEDD ) is mostly positively correlated with tyrosine and citrate in sporadic PD compared to pyruvate and phenylalanine in genetic PD . Cerebrospinal fluid levels of alpha-synuclein were negatively correlated with alanine . Further metabolites and lipoproteins with discriminatory power for double mutation PD cases involved ornithine , 2-aminobutyrate and 2-hydroxybutyrate as well as for mitochondrial phenotypes via LDL phospholipid , apolipoprotein and cholesterol subfractions . Quantitative IVDr NMR serum spectroscopy is able to stratify PD patient samples of different etiology and can contribute to a wider understanding of the underlying metabolism-driven alterations e . g . in energy , amino acid , and lipoprotein metabolism . Though our overall cohort was large , major confounders such as age , sex and medication have a strong impact . That is why absolute quantification and detailed patient knowledge about metabolic confounders , is a premise for future translation of NMR serum spectroscopy to routine PD diagnostics .
Endoparasitic wasps produce several factors , such as polydnavirus , venom and a specialized group of wasp embryonic cells named teratocytes , to condition their hosts and support the development of parasitoid offspring . However , the role of the developing parasitoid larvae in host adaption and regulation remains largely unknown . By analyzing RNA-seq data of Cotesia vestalis , an endolarval parasitoid of the diamondback moth Plutella xylostella , we discovered that most of the larval stage highly expressed genes are associated with nutrient metabolism , including carbohydrate , protein , and lipid metabolism . We also identified hundreds of C . vestalis larvae-secreted proteins . A large proportion of the secreted proteins ( 126/404 ) are encoded by larval highly expressed genes . Besides several immune-related proteins , most of the secreted proteins are closely related to carbohydrate , protein , and amino acid metabolism . We further demonstrated that eleven genes linked to amino acid metabolism that encode secretory proteins were upregulated in 2nd instar larvae . These results suggest a relatively positive correlation between gene expression and secreted proteins . In summary , our study presents the secretory proteome of an endolarval parasitoid , highlighting its potential function in nutritional and immune regulation within the host , which would benefit the growth and development of parasitoid progeny .
Abdominal aortic calcification ( AAC ) and atherosclerosis are prevalent conditions among older adults , and recent research suggests that their association may extend beyond the effects of aging alone . An essential instrument for determining the possibility of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) is the cardiometabolic index ( CMI ) , a new lipid-based index sensitive to visceral obesity . However , little has been established about the relationship between CMI and AAC . We examined CMI and AAC data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) conducted in 2013-2014 for this study . The relationship between AAC , severe abdominal aortic calcification ( SAAC ) , and CMI was assessed using multiple linear and logistic regression models . The overall trend was visualized using smoothed curve modeling . Subgroup analyses were conducted to find possible moderating factors . Among the 2704 participants included , those with higher CMI levels exhibited much greater AAC scores and a higher prevalence of SAAC . In model 3 , elevated CMI positively correlated with AAC ( 25 ( 09 , 41 ) ) and with the odds of SAAC ( OR = 35 ( 09 , 67 ) ) . Participants in the highest CMI quartile had an AAC score that was 65 units higher ( beta = 65 ( 26 , 04 ) ) and an 114% higher risk of SAAC ( OR = 14 ( 29 , 54 ) ) . Subgroup analyses indicated sex and smoking status significantly modified the relationship between CMI , AAC , and SAAC , while previously diagnosed with congestive heart failure ( CHF ) and heart attack significantly moderated the association between CMI and AAC . These results imply that greater AAC scores and a higher risk of SAAC are linked to heightened CMI , which represents visceral fat storage and disturbed lipid metabolism . Our findings indicate that CMI is correlated with AAC in certain demographic and cardiovascular subgroups , suggesting its potential as an exploratory indicator of elevated AAC risk in these populations .
In this work , the synthesis of smart hosting materials from modified gelatin with different fatty acids ( myristic acid , palmitic acid , and stearic acid ) has been observed and characterized . Coconut oil was used as a natural phase change material ( PCM ) and octadecanol was used as an organic phase change material . Different concentrations of Phase change materials were impregnated in modified gelatin and applied to cotton and/or dyed cotton fabric with reactive dye . The treatment process was done using two methods , first method , the fabric was pre-treated with PCM composite and then dyed with reactive dye solution , and second method , the fabric was dyed with reactive dye solution and then treated with PCM composite . Smart PCM composite based on modified gelatin produced thermo-regulating properties which are responsible for controlling body temperature . The gelatin/PCM composite and treated cotton fabric were characterized using DSC , FT-IR , and SEM . The results confirmed the synthesis of modified gelatin and also confirmed its reaction with the cotton surface . DSC results showed that the treated cotton fabric with coconut oil composite has the best thermo-regulating properties .
At advanced phases of atherosclerosis , the rupture and thrombogenesis of vulnerable plaques emerge as primary triggers for acute cardiovascular events and fatalities . Pathogenic infection such as periodontitis-associated Porphyromonas gingivalis ( Pg ) has been suspected of increasing the risks of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease , but its relationship with atherosclerotic plaque destabilization remains elusive . Here we demonstrated that the level of Pg-positive clusters positively correlated with the ratio of necrotic core area to total atherosclerotic plaque area in human clinical samples , which indicates plaque instability . In rabbits and Apoe ( -/- ) mice , Pg promoted atherosclerotic plaque necrosis and aggravated plaque instability by triggering oxidative stress , which led to macrophage necroptosis . This process was accompanied by the decreased protein level of forkhead box O3 ( FOXO3 ) in macrophages . The mechanistic dissection showed that Pg lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) evoked macrophage oxidative stress via the TLR4 signaling pathway , which subsequently activated MAPK/ERK-mediated FOXO3 phosphorylation and following degradation . While the gingipains , a class of proteases produced by Pg , could effectively hydrolyze FOXO3 in the cytoplasm of macrophages . Both of them decreased the nuclear level of FOXO3 , followed by the release of histone deacetylase 2 ( HDAC2 ) from the macrophage scavenger receptor 1 ( Msr1 ) promoter , thus promoting Msr1 transcription . This enhanced MSR1-mediated lipid uptake further amplified oxidative stress-induced necroptosis in lipid-laden macrophages . In summary , Pg exacerbates macrophage oxidative stress-dependent necroptosis , thus enlarges the atherosclerotic plaque necrotic core and ultimately promotes plaque destabilization .
In spatial ' omics , highly confident molecular identifications are indispensable for the investigation of complex biology and for spatial biomarker discovery . However , current mass spectrometry imaging ( MSI ) -based spatial ' omics must compromise between data acquisition speed and biochemical profiling depth . Here , we introduce fast , label-free quantum cascade laser mid-infrared imaging microscopy ( QCL-MIR imaging ) to guide MSI to high-interest tissue regions as small as kidney glomeruli , cultured multicellular spheroid cores or single motor neurons . Focusing on smaller tissue areas enables extensive spatial lipid identifications by on-tissue tandem-MS employing imaging parallel reaction monitoring-Parallel Accumulation-Serial Fragmentation ( iprm-PASEF ) . QCL-MIR imaging-guided MSI allowed for unequivocal on-tissue elucidation of 157 sulfatides selectively accumulating in kidneys of arylsulfatase A-deficient mice used as ground truth concept and provided chemical rationales for improvements to ion mobility prediction algorithms . Using this workflow , we characterized sclerotic spinal cord lesions in mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis ( EAE ) , a model of multiple sclerosis , and identified upregulation of inflammation-related ceramide-1-phosphate and ceramide phosphatidylethanolamine as markers of white matter lipid remodeling . Taken together , widely applicable and fast QCL-MIR imaging-based guidance of MSI ensures that more time is available for exploration and validation of new biology by default on-tissue tandem-MS analysis .
Alcohol-associated liver disease ( ALD ) is characterized by the reduction of hepatic nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NAD ( + ) ) , which exacerbates hepatic steatosis . The present study was conducted to investigate the protective role of nicotinamide ( NAM ) , a foodborne precursor of NAD ( + ) biosynthesis , in ALD . C57BL/6N mice were employed to establish the ALD model and were administered NAM by gavage . Our results showed that NAM supplementation significantly ameliorated alcohol-induced NAD ( + ) reduction and lipid accumulation in both mice liver and cultured AML-12 hepatocytes and improved lipid metabolism-associated gene disorders . Alcohol-induced liver injury and oxidative stress were also blocked by NAM administration . Further transcriptomics analysis and validation revealed that alcohol-stimulated sphingomyelin phosphodiesterase 3 ( SMPD3 ) was significantly reversed by NAM , along with the reduction of hepatic ceramide levels . Importantly , SMPD3 was upregulated in the livers of ALD patients . Genetically silencing SMPD3 alleviated alcohol-induced lipid accumulation in hepatocytes . ChIP assay identified SMPD3 as a direct downstream target of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha ( HIF-1alpha ) . Liver-specific Hif1alpha knockdown reduced the level of hepatic SMPD3 expression in mice . Activation of HIF-1alpha abolished the prevention of intrahepatic liver lipid deposition by NAM , while SMPD3 knockdown reversed HIF-1alpha activation-stimulated lipid accumulation , indicating that a HIF-1alpha-regulated SMPD3 pathway was involved in the beneficial role of NAM . NAM improved liver oxidative stress , while antioxidant MitoQ administration rescued HIF-1alpha/SMPD3 activation in ALD mice , implying that the antioxidant effect of NAM contributed to its inhibitory role on the HIF-1alpha/SMPD3 pathway . In conclusion , NAM ameliorates chronic alcohol intake-induced hepatic steatosis by inhibiting SMPD This study provides new insights into the mechanistic understanding of ALD and highlights NAM as a therapeutic choice for ALD treatment . FAU - Ding , Qinchao
Recent studies have suggested that vitamin D deficiency may have relations with various neuropsychiatric diseases as well as bone diseases . However , the concentrations of vitamin D metabolites in the brain and the relationship between their brain and serum concentrations remain poorly understood . To answer these questions , we developed and validated an LC/ESI-MS/MS method for quantifying 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25 ( OH ) D] , an established marker for assessing vitamin D sufficiency/deficiency , in the rat brain and compared the brain concentrations with the serum concentrations . To enhance the assay sensitivity and specificity , the 25 ( OH ) D was derivatized with 4-[4- ( 1-pipelidinyl ) phenyl]-1 , 2 , 4-triazoline-3 , 5-dione ( PIPTAD ) after purification of the brain sample by a two-step solid-phase extraction . A good linearity was obtained within the range of 20-1000 pg/g tissue , and the intra-assay and interassay precision and accuracy were acceptable . In normal rats ( n = 6 ) , the brain 25 ( OH ) D concentrations ranged from 128 to 175 pg/g tissue , which were extremely low ( approximately 1/100 ) compared to the serum concentrations . The bile duct ligation caused the decreased serum 25 ( OH ) D level , which produced the subsequent decreased brain 25 ( OH ) D level ( 44-79 pg/g , n = 6 ) . These results strongly suggested that the serum 25 ( OH ) D concentration has a significant effect on its brain level .
BACKGROUND : Carotid lipid core plaques ( LCPs ) have been detected during assessment of carotid artery stenosis using catheter-based near-infrared spectroscopy ( NIRS ) . Treatment with carotid artery stenting ( CAS ) using dual-layered stents might cause plaque protrusion , and subsequent thromboembolic complications . OBJECTIVE : We aimed to evaluate whether the telescopic carotid stenting ( TCS ) method suppresses plaque protrusion in patients with high LCPs as assessed by NIRS during CAS . METHODS : Participants comprised 63 consecutive patients with high LCP , defined as maximal lipid core burden index >400 , undergoing CAS using dual-layered stents . For comparison , the study was divided into two distinct periods , with stenting by the standard method in the earlier period , and TCS in the later period . NIRS and intravenous ultrasonography ( IVUS ) were performed at baseline and after balloon dilatation to analyze the maximal lipid core burden index at the minimal luminal area ( MLA ) ( max-LCBI ( MLA ) ) , and the frequency of plaque protrusion . RESULTS : Baseline clinical and lesion characteristics , including symptoms , degree of stenosis , and plaque assessment by NIRS-IVUS , were not significantly different . MLA post-balloon percutaneous transmural angioplasty ( PTA ) was significantly smaller with the TCS method ( 2+/-5 mm ) than with the standard method ( 7+/-5 mm , P=002 ) , and MLA change ratio before and after post-balloon PTA was significantly smaller with the TCS ( 2+/-6 ) than with the standard method ( 8+/-1 , P=038 ) . Plaque protrusion post-CAS was significantly less with the TCS ( 0 case , 0% ) than with the standard method ( 4 cases , 20% , P=008 ) . CONCLUSION : The TCS method suppresses plaque protrusion in patients with high LCPs undergoing CAS , as assessed by NIRS .
Recently , Bacteroides species , a dominant genus of commensal gut bacteria , have been increasingly recognised as potential next-generation postbiotics . The present study isolated nine Bacteroides POTENTIAL postbiotics from healthy human feces . Among them , Phocaeicola vulgatus ( PV-1 ) , Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron ( BT-1 ) , and Bacteroides uniformis ( BU-1 ) were selected based on their capacity to inhibit lipogenesis and their potential synergy in vitro . Subsequently , the anti-obesity effect of the three Bacteroides postbiotics was comparatively investigated , both in combination ( VTU ) and individually , using a high-fat diet ( HFD ) -fed mouse model . VTU more notably reduced HFD-triggered excessive body mass , fat , and liver weights compared to the individual postbiotics . Additionally , VTU markedly attenuated serum triglyceride , total cholesterol , fasting blood glucose , and insulin levels compared to the HFD-alone treatment . Furthermore , VTU significantly downregulated the expression of lipogenesis-associated genes in the liver , including PPARgamma , C/EBPalpha , AP2 , CD36 , FAS , ACC1 , and LDLR , while upregulating beige-specific marker genes in the white adipose tissue , such as PRDM16 , UCP1 , and PPARgamma . Moreover , VTU significantly altered the serum metabolomic profile , significantly changing several metabolites like lysophosphatidylcholines ( LPCs ) and Boc-homoglutamic acid . These findings indicate that the combination of PV-1 , BU-1 , and BT-1 synergistically ameliorated obesity by regulating lipid and glucose metabolism . Hence , we propose that Bacteroides postbiotics , including their combinations , could be developed as novel therapeutic agents for alleviating obesity and its complications in the future . FAU - Wu , L
OBJECTIVE : This study aims to investigate the potential effects of carotenoid supplementation on mitigating exercise-induced oxidative stress and to provide guidance for future research . METHODS : We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis using Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses guidelines . We searched multiple databases from inception to August 2024 for randomized clinical trials investigating the effects of carotenoid supplementation on biomarkers of oxidative stress , inflammatory markers , antioxidant levels , and metabolic parameters in the context of exercise-induced oxidative stress . The search terms included " carotenoids , " " supplementation , " " exercise , " " oxidative stress , " " inflammation , " " antioxidants , " " metabolic parameters , " and their synonyms . Two reviewers independently extracted study data , with disagreements resolved by a third reviewer . Quality was assessed by the Cochrane risk-of-bias method . Random and fixed effects models were used for the analysis of standard mean differences ( SMD ) or weighted mean differences ( MDs ) with 95% confidence intervals ( CI ) . RESULTS : A total of 12 studies were included in the final analysis . Carotenoid supplementation led to significant effects in assessing oxidative stress induced by exercise ( overall oxidative stress : SMD = -55 , 95% CI [-04 , -06] ; malondialdehyde : MD = -05 , 95% CI [-09 , -02] ; total antioxidant capacity : MD = 03 , 95% CI [02 , 03] ; 8-isoprostane : MD = -70 , 95% CI [-32 , -09] ; lipid peroxide : SMD = -07 , 95% CI [-94 , -20] ; and nitric oxide : MD = -07 , 95% CI [-54 , -59] ) , inflammatory markers ( inflammatory levels : SMD = 63 , 95% CI [81 , 46] ; interleukin levels : SMD = 54 , 95% CI [69 , 40] ; and C-reactive protein : MD = 56 , 95% CI [97 , 14] ) , antioxidant levels ( SMD = 84 , 95% CI [14 , 53] ) , and metabolic parameters ( energy expenditure : SMD = -52 , 95% CI [-78 , -26] ; p < . 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Carotenoid supplementation appears to attenuate exercise-induced oxidative stress and the inflammatory response and improve antioxidant levels and metabolic capabilities . However , these results may be influenced by participant variability or methodological differences . Further research with larger sample sizes , longer supplementation periods , higher doses , and carotenoid bioavailability is needed to confirm these findings . FAU - Ye , Xing
INTRODUCTION : Glucocorticoids ( GC ) are a widely prescribed anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive medicine in clinics . The side effects GC of mostly insulin resistance ( IR ) , dysregulated lipid metabolism and fatty liver , remain the major concern in patients . Understanding the mechanism of GC-induced hepatic steatosis is expected to provide an intervention target to avoid this side effect . AIM : The present study aims to explore the beneficial effects of trimetazidine ( TMZ ) to combat DEXA-induced steatohepatitis and metabolic abnormalities . METHODS : An in vivo IR model was established using male Wistar rats , which were administered TMZ at doses of 10 and 20 mg/kg for a duration of 14 days . Subsequently , from day 7 to day 14 of the study , the rats received DEXA ( 1 mg/kg , intraperitoneal ( i . p . ) injection ) . There were 5 groups , with each group consisting of 6 animals , as outlined : control group , TMZ control group , DEXA group , TMZ 10 + DEXA group , TMZ 20 + DEXA group . On the 14th day of the experiment , serum and hepatic samples were collected . RESULTS : The findings indicate a marked reduction in OGTT results , fasting serum glucose and insulin levels , ALT and AST levels following treatment with TMZ . TMZ treatment also attenuated oxidative stress markers and improved the lipid profile . Additionally , the hepatic concentrations of high-mobility group box1 ( HMGB1 ) , phosphorylated Janus kinase 1 ( p-JAK1 ) , phosphorylated signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( p-STAT3 ) , and levels of NF-kappaB-p65 and interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) were significantly diminished by TMZ when compared with the DEXA-treated group . Furthermore , TMZ lowered B cell/lymphoma 2 ( BCL-2 ) and caspase-3 levels and attenuated liver histopathological changes . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrated that TMZ significantly improved DEXA-induced hepatic alterations by modulating the HMGB1/p-JAK1/p-STAT3/NF-kappaB pathway in liver . Our findings provide new evidence supporting the application of TMZ for treating DEXA-induced IR and hepatic steatosis .
BACKGROUND : The high-sensitivity C-reactive protein ( Hs-CRP ) -to-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) ratio , which integrates insights into inflammation and lipid metabolism , serves as a comprehensive indicator . The association between this ratio and stroke prevalence is endeavored to be explored in this research . METHODS : Drawing on information gathered during the 2015-2018 cycles of the NHANES , the association between the Hs-CRP/HDL-C ratio and stroke was examined through multivariate logistic regression . Additionally , subgroup analysis , interaction test , and restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) were carried out . Multiple machine learning methods were used to identify the key factors affecting stroke and combined with Shap interpretable models to determine the degree of influence of the key factors . Finally , the results of the logistic regression analysis are used to construct a predictive model , which is represented using a nomogram . RESULTS : This research sample comprised 8 , 064 participants , yielding a stroke prevalence of 04% . A positive correlation was shown between the Hs-CRP/HDL-C ratio and stroke ( OR : 17 , 95% CI : 02 , 35 ) . Interaction tests demonstrated that younger participants were more sensitive to higher Hs-CRP/HDL-C ratios , with a significant interaction in stroke . The RCS analysis indicated a nonlinear association between the exposure variable and to outcome variable . The AUC > 8 for a random forest model and an XGBoost model demonstrated their strong predictive value . Ultimately , the generated predictive model is a visual nomogram with an AUC of CONCLUSION : The results of the study showed a positive correlation between Hs-CRP/HDL and the prevalence of stroke , with higher Hs-CRP/HDL levels associated with a higher likelihood of stroke . As a stroke prediction model incorporating Hs-CRP/HDL , the nomogram may play a significant role in the early identification of high-risk populations .
This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of dandelion against AFB-induced hepatotoxicity through the regulation of the FXR signaling pathway in chicks . A total of 144 one-day-old male broilers were randomly assigned to three groups and received a basal diet ( BD ) , and BD supplemented with 5 mg/kg of AFB or 5 mg/kg AFB with 4% dandelion for 3 weeks . The results showed that the AFB treatment caused liver injury and decreased the concentrations of albumin and alkaline phosphatase in serum and increased the total bile acid concentration in serum and liver . Dietary AFB supplementation also induced hepatocyte swelling , necrosis , neutrophils infiltration and lipid deposition in the liver . Notably , dietary dandelion supplementation alleviated these alterations induced by AFB . Additionally , dietary dandelion supplementation alleviated AFB-induced changes in ileum microbiota and decreased the abundance of Lactobacillus , L . vaginalis , and L . acidophilus compared to the AFB treatment . Furthermore , AFB downregulated Baat , Ntcp , Acc , FXR , SHP , and SREBP-1c expression , and upregulated Cyp8b1 , Bacs , Fas , Pparalpha , Lxralpha and CYP7A1 expression in liver . Meanwhile , AFB also downregulated Fgf19 , Ostalpha , Ostbeta and FXR expression and upregulated SHP expression in the ileum . Conclusively , dietary dandelion supplementation protected broilers from AFB-induced hepatotoxicity , potentially due to the activation of bile acid-FXR signaling pathway .
Using small angle X-ray scattering measurements , structural coherencies in lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) formulations comprising messenger RNA ( mRNA ) were elucidated in response to pH changes and as a function of RNA to lipid ratio . Formulations were assembled using selected ionizable lipids with well-known activity from previous experiments , with otherwise identical composition . Several structural parameters were determined , including internal organization , fraction of ordered material , the underlying repeating distance , and the fractal dimension of the overall particles . Repeat distances increased with increasing pH , with profiles similar to the shape of pK ( a ) curves , therefore allowing to directly reveal the structural implication of the pH responsiveness inside the particles . The fractal dimension , which so far had not been in the center of attention for quality control , was correlated with biological activity . Such systematic data on structure-function coherencies in LNPs can serve as complementary methods to standard lab-based quality control measures . This can help to facilitate and accelerate the rational formulation development of new RNA therapeutics .
Nutrition is crucial for bees , impacting their health , survival , and pollination performance in ecosystems and agriculture . Bees get essential nutrients such as carbohydrates , proteins , lipids , vitamins , and minerals , primarily from nectar and pollen . Many bee species are experiencing declines linked partially to nutritional stress , often exacerbated by climate change , pesticides , and pathogens , highlighting the need to understand and support optimal bee nutrition to mitigate these stressors . Bumble bees , such as Bombus impatient and Bombus terrestris , essential pollinators in agriculture , are known to regulate their nutrient intake . However , whether their dietary choices improve fitness is poorly understood . We tested diets with varying protein , lipid , and carbohydrate compositions , analyzing impacts on consumption , body mass , egg laying , and ovarian activation . Results showed that bees overconsumed pollen on protein-enriched diets and under consumed it on lipid-enriched and glucose-based diets . Nectar overconsumption was observed on low-concentration sucrose diets . These patterns , however , did not correspond to improved fitness , as egg laying and body mass were negatively correlated with consumption in diets enriched with protein and sugar . Ovarian activation was largely unaffected across most diets , indicating it may not be a reliable indicator of diet quality . These findings raise doubts about whether bees make optimal nutritional choices and suggest that diet consumption alone may not be a reliable indicator of their optimal diet . Alternatively , bees made the best possible decisions under circumstances that presented a lose-lose tradeoff across all the diets provided . These data can inform future studies on nutritional stress , enhance interpretations of bee diet preferences in bioassays , and guide bumble bee management practices .
BACKGROUND AND AIM : We investigated the association between fasting serum and urinary nitric oxide metabolite ( NOx ) levels and fatty liver index ( FLI ) , a non-invasive surrogate of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) and liver steatosis . METHOD : This cross-sectional study included 598 adults ( aged>/=18 years , 6% men ) who participated in the Tehran Lipid and Glucose Study ( 2015-2017 ) . Serum and urine NOx concentrations were quantified using a spectrophotometric method following the Griess reaction . FLI values were calculated using gamma-glutamyl transferase , triglycerides , body mass index , and waist circumference . The associations between urinary and serum NOx-to-creatinine ( Cr ) ratio [either as a categorical variable , i . e . , tertiles , or as a continuous variable , i . e . , per 1 SD ) with NAFLD ( i . e . , FLI>/=60 ) were assessed using multivariable-adjusted binary logistic regression . RESULTS : The study participants ' mean ( SD ) age was 5+/-6 y . The mean ( SD ) of serum and urinary NOx was 5+/-7 and 1310+/-751 mumol/L , respectively . The mean ( SD ) of FLI was 3+/-2 , and the prevalence of NAFLD was 4% . Serum NOx-to-Cr ratio was not associated with the chance of having NAFLD ( OR=66 , 95% CI=98-82 ; P value=058 ) . Higher urinary NOx-to-Cr ratio was significantly associated with a reduced probability of NAFLD ( OR=61 , 95% CI=38-95 , and OR=54 , 95% CI=34-87 , in the second and third tertiles ) . CONCLUSION : Higher dietary nitrate ( NO ) intake , indicated by increased urinary NOx-to-Cr ratio , is associated with a reduced probability of NAFLD , highlighting the potential role of dietary NO in liver health .
The pacific white shrimp , Litopenaeus vannamei ( L . vannamei ) is one of the most widely farmed shrimp species in global aquaculture . The scarcity of fishmeal as a component of aquafeeds poses a considerable challenge to the sustainable development of the aquaculture industry . This study aimed to assess the feasibility of poultry by-product meal ( PBM ) as an alternative to fishmeal of L . vannamei diets by assessing its impact on growth performance , immune response , postprandial metabolism and signaling pathways . Six diets were formulated to be iso-nitrogenous ( 42% ) and iso-lipidic ( 7% ) , with 0 , 8% , 16% , 25% , 33% and 50% fishmeal replaced by poultry by-product meal ( marked as CON , PBM8 , PBM16 , PBM25 , PBM33 , PBM50 ) . After an 8 week of growth trial , results showed that dietary PBM replacement up to 16% didn ' t negatively affect growth performance of L . vannamei . However , PBM replacement at 16% or higher led to significant reductions in lipase and trypsin activity , deteriorated gut morphology , and disrupted the balance of immune-related gene expression and phosphorylation of Nf-kappaB in the intestine or hepatopancreas . Mechanically , oxidative stress progressively increased in the hepatopancreas with higher dietary PBM levels , inducing ferroptosis and cuproptosis while leaving apoptosis and autophagy unaffected . Postprandial mTORC1 signaling in muscle was significantly suppressed by higher PBM levels , impairing protein synthesis . Furthermore , high PBM replacement disrupted postprandial energy metabolism , affecting glycolysis , gluconeogenesis , and TCA cycle pathways . Taken together , these results shed light on the molecular , immune and metabolic impacts of dietary PBM replacement in L . vannamei , enhancing comprehension of the relationship between dietary protein sources and shrimp physiological health .
Biological membranes , which comprise proteins , lipids and glycans , serve as essential gatekeepers protecting cells from the external environment . In bacteria , phospholipids are a major class of membrane lipids , whose biology has extensively been studied in the Gram-negative organism Escherichia coli . As an adaptive mechanism , E . coli dynamically remodels its phospholipids in response to its environment , which may involve alterations of the structures and/or levels of existing lipids , or the incorporation of exogenous substrates to form new phospholipid classes . Intriguingly , an unknown lipid was detected in E . coli and other Enterobacteriaceae . Detection of this lipid in E . coli grown in minimal media suggested its production using an endogenous metabolite . By coupling liquid chromatography mass spectrometry and metabolic incorporation , the lipid was identified as phosphatidylhomoserine ( PHS ) . In E . coli , PHS was produced endogenously by phosphatidylserine synthase A ( PssA ) , confirmed by the absence of PHS in an E . coli DeltapssA mutant , and its inability to incorporate exogenously supplied ( L ) -homoserine into its phospholipids . Furthermore , purified E . coli PssA ( EcPssA ) exhibited activity to utilize ( L ) -homoserine as an alternative substrate to make PHS in vitro . Interestingly , E . coli and other Enterobacteriaceae can decarboxylate PHS to form phosphatidylpropanolamine ( PPA ) endogenously . When treated with ( L ) -homoserine , accumulation of PHS in E . coli was accompanied by a reduction in phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylethanolamine , due to competition for common metabolic intermediates . Overall , our findings on the endogenous production of PHS and PPA re-established the baseline phospholipidome of E . coli , and provided biochemical and cellular evidence on the substrate promiscuity of EcPssA .
The aim of this study was to investigate the regulation of triptolide on Rab7-mediated lipophagy to elucidate the potential association between lipophagy and ferroptosis in triptolide-induced hepatotoxicity . Human normal liver HL7702 cells and C57BL/6J mice were treated with triptolide to establish in vitro and in vivo models . The results revealed that triptolide caused a severe hepatic cell damage in vitro and in vivo . Concurrently , triptolide induced the remarkable activation of Rab7-mediated lipophagy , as evidenced by the decreased levels of lipid droplets and p62 , the increased Rab7 , microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 ( LC3 ) and phosphorylated adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) levels , as well as the increased colocalization of LC3 and Rab7 proteins . Moreover , triptolide obviously increased the levels of ferroptotic markers , including MDA , iron , prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase 2 , and induced GSH and GPX4 exhaustion and oxidative stress in hepatic cells . Importantly , the inhibition of lipophagy mitigated ferroptosis and alleviated the hepatic cell damage induced by triptolide . our results demonstrated that triptolide-activated lipophagy with Rab7 serves as a pivotal factor in triggering ferroptosis and exacerbating hepatoxicity . The manipulation of lipophagy is thus a potential therapeutic strategy for ameliorating triptolide-induced hepatotoxicity .
BACKGROUND : Sodium of Danshensu ( SDSS ) , extract of salvia miltiorrhiza root , has been shown to have neuroprotective effects on ischemic stroke ( IS ) in our previous studies . However , its therapeutic time window and mechanism of action remain unclear . Ferroptosis exerts a crucial feature in the development and progression of IS . Nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) can positively regulate the transcription of Recombinant Solute Carrier Family 7 , member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) and glutathione peroxidase ( GPX4 ) genes that combat lipid peroxidation in ferroptosis . PURPOSE : The current study aimed to assess therapeutic time window of SDSS and the pharmacological mechanism involved in Nrf2-mediated oxidative stress and ferroptosis . METHODS : Mice with transient middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) and HT22 cells with oxygen-glucose deprivation / reoxygenation ( OGD/R ) were induced to simulate IS . Mice were administered SDSS at 1 , 3 , 6 or 9h after MCAO to determine the therapeutic time window of SDSS . MicroRNA-seq was conducted to analyze differentially expressed genes in both the MCAO and the SDSS treatment group . The interaction between SDSS and Nrf2 was also investigated using molecular docking , molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations , and surface plasmon resonance ( SPR ) experiments . Furthermore , the neuroprotection of SDSS was investigated in Nrf2-deficient mice to assess the activation mechanism of the Nrf2/GPX4 axis by SDSS . The biomarkers ( Fe ( 2+ ) content , ROS , MDA , GSH , GSH/GSSG ) , mitochondrial structure , these proteins ( Nrf2 , SLC7A11 , GPX4 , FTH1 , HO-1 , ACSL4 and TFRC ) expression were detected by commercial kits , transmission electron microscope ( TEM ) and Western blotting , respectively . RESULTS : The therapeutic time window of SDSS should be within 6hours after MCAO , beyond which SDSS cannot play a therapeutic role . SDSS played a neuroprotective affection in mice and HT22 cells by restraining ROS , MDA and Fe ( 2+ ) content , elevating GSH level and GSH/GSSG ratio . At the molecular mechanism , SDSS can bind to Nrf2 , improve Nrf2 activity and nuclear expression , further enhance SLC7A11 , GPX4 , FTH1 , HO-1 expression and reduce ACSL4 and TFRC expression . However , the neuroprotective effects of SDSS and its effect on ferroptosis-related proteins were partially reversed in Nrf2-deficient mice . CONCLUSION : The therapeutic time window of SDSS for ischemic stroke is relatively wide . The administration of SDSS can potentially mitigate brain damage through the inhibition of oxidative damage and ferroptosis , which is partly regulated by the Nrf2/GPX4 axis . Therefore , SDSS is a promising candidate for the treatment of ischemic stroke .
Periparturient dairy cows are susceptible to negative energy balance ( NEB ) , which triggers excessive adipose mobilization , leading to elevated plasma non-esterified fatty acids ( NEFA ) and hepatic lipid accumulation . While strontium ( Sr ) has shown metabolic regulatory potential , its role in hepatic lipid homeostasis remains unclear . Using an NEFA-induced lipid accumulation model in bovine hepatocytes , we demonstrated that Sr ( 5-20muM ) significantly reduced intracellular triglyceride ( TG ) and total cholesterol ( TC ) levels . Further mechanistic studies revealed that Sr enhances SIRT1 expression and suppresses the expression and nuclear translocation of SREBP-1C/SREBP2 , thereby downregulating downstream lipogenic enzymes such as ACC , FASN , SCD1 , and HMGCR . Molecular docking indicated that Sr ( + ) binds with high affinity to Asp-481/483 of SIRT1 , while SIRT1 inhibition with EX-527 abolished Sr-mediated lipid-lowering effects . Additionally , Sr promoted PPARalpha nuclear translocation to enhance beta-oxidation and upregulated LDLR expression to facilitate lipid efflux . This study elucidated the multi-target molecular mechanism of Sr alleviating lipid metabolism disorders in bovine hepatocytes through the SIRT1/SREBPs pathway , providing a theoretical foundation for the application of Sr in preventing metabolic diseases in dairy cows .
The advancement of single-molecule imaging techniques has significantly enhanced our understanding of biomolecular reactions and cellular processes that remain obscured in ensemble measurements . In particular , DNA curtains are high-throughput hybrid methods integrating total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy , lipid fluidity , microfluidics , and nano-fabrication , enabling the direct visualization of protein-DNA interactions in real time . The techniques have emerged as powerful tools for probing molecular dynamics of diverse DNA metabolic processes , including DNA damage repair and chromatin dynamics . This review not only highlights recent applications of DNA curtain techniques for elucidating mechanisms underlying DNA damage repair and chromatin dynamics , but also shows how DNA curtain techniques have provided novel insights into the interplay between DNA metabolic processes in the chromatin context .
BACKGROUND : Enzalutamide significantly improves overall survival ( OS ) of patients with metastatic hormone- sensitive prostate cancer ( mHSPC ) . However , approximately 10% of patients will die within 2 years . PCPro is a plasma lipid panel associated with decreased OS in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer . In this study , we assessed the association between PCPro and clinical outcomes in mHSPC by performing a post-hoc analysis of ENZAMET , the landmark phase 3 trial comparing enzalutamide to non-steroidal anti-androgen ( NSAA ) . PATIENTS AND METHODS : PCPro status was determined by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis of plasma samples from 866 participants ( 77% of ENZAMET trial cohort ) , before treatment ( n=866 ) and at first progression ( n=282 ) . Outcomes examined were OS and clinical progression-free survival ( clinPFS ) . RESULTS : Participants with a positive PCPro status at baseline ( 4% ) , had significantly shorter OS and clinPFS compared to those with a negative PCPro status ( OS HR=81 ; clinPFS HR=65 ; p<0001 ) . PCPro is an independent prognostic factor when modelled with key clinical prognostic factors ( p<001 ) . Enzalutamide ( compared to NSAA ) improved the OS of PCPro-negative participants ( HR = 61 , p<0001 ) , but not the survival of PCPro-positive participants ( HR=10 , p=69 ; interaction p=024 ) . Participants , who were PCPro-positive at progression , have shorter OS than those who were negative , irrespective of baseline status ( median OS 24-28 months versus 42-45 months ) . CONCLUSION : PCPro status is a prognostic biomarker and predictive of the lack of OS benefit from enzalutamide compared to NSAA in mHSPC . These findings provide a rationale for testing therapeutic agents that can modify circulating lipid profiles in mHSPC .
The myelin sheath is a lipid-rich membrane that ensheathes axons and is required for healthy and efficient signal transduction . Myelin is damaged in neurological diseases like multiple sclerosis , but remyelination can occur through the action of oligodendrocyte precursor cells ( OPCs ) , which differentiate into mature oligodendrocytes that wrap axons to form repaired myelin . In this study , a genetic-based mouse model of demyelination was used , which features near-complete demyelination followed by robust remyelination in the brain . Lipid mass spectrometry on isolated myelin from the remyelinated brain revealed a decrease in the percent mole fraction of cholesterol when compared to healthy myelin . Biophysical studies on monomolecular lipid films formed using myelin lipid extracts from repaired myelin showed changes in the surface behavior of the lipid films , compared to the healthy myelin . Films formed using the remyelinated lipid extracts resulted in lower surface pressures and lower compressional moduli when compared to healthy controls , suggesting that repaired myelin membranes have lower lateral molecular packing within the lipid film . Synthetically prepared model membranes , based on the major lipid compositions of the healthy and diseased extracts , revealed that changes in cholesterol levels were the primary contributor to the changes in biophysical properties . Supplementation of the diseased lipid extracts with cholesterol led to a robust improvement in membrane surface pressures and compressibility . Together , these results suggest that high cholesterol levels are required for myelin membrane stability and that reduced cholesterol in repaired myelin may have a profound impact on the biophysical properties of the myelin membrane .
To address the quality degradation in surimi products due to lipid loss , the oil-modified starch made by amylose corn starch and fish oil was used to investigate the comprehensive structural characterization of fish oil-modified starch and its influence on surimi product quality . The results indicated that hydrothermal treatment temperature played a key role in the successful preparation of fish oil modified starch . At a modification temperature of 90 degrees C , the CI of fish oil-modified starch reached a maximum of 42 % , with the lowest transparency of 58 % . Compared with native starch , oil-modified starch demonstrated reduced crystallinity ( 55 % ) and gelatinization enthalpy ( 1047 J/g ) . Furthermore , it exhibited increased viscosity and swelling power , as well as improved oxidative stability . Upon incorporation into surimi , the hydrogen bonding within the system was enhanced , the denseness and continuity of the gel network were increased . A portion of the immobilized water was converted into free and bound water , and the hardness , springiness , chewiness and gel strength of the surimi products were significantly improved ( P < 05 ) . This study not only provides a novel approach for the high-value utilization of aquatic resources but also drives the transformation of the surimi industry from " scale expansion " to " quality enhancement . "
The production of pepper is increasingly challenged by cadmium ( Cd ) contamination . Abscisic acid ( ABA ) is supposed to alleviate Cd-induced toxicity and reduce the accumulation of Cd . However , the underlying physiological mechanisms by which ABA regulates Cd tolerance remain unclear . Therefore , this study investigates the mitigation of Cd toxicity in pepper exposed to Cd stress through the application of exogenous ABA under hydroponic conditions . The analysis focused on the subcellular distribution of Cd in the root , its localization in cell wall polysaccharide components , and the associated physiological indices . The results showed that ABA treatment significantly reduced Cd accumulation in pepper roots and shoots , which suggests that ABA effectively decreases Cd translocation from roots to aboveground tissues . This was accompanied by enhanced antioxidant activity , as evidenced by increased peroxidase and catalase activities . Furthermore , ABA regulated the subcellular distribution of Cd in root tissues , decreased Cd content in the cell wall and thereby mitigating Cd toxicity at the cellular level . The addition of ABA also reduced the content of hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde , indicating a reduction in lipid peroxidation and cell membrane damage . These findings highlight that ABA can enhance plant tolerance to Cd stress by modifying Cd distribution within the plant , boosting the antioxidant defense mechanism , and altering cell wall composition to limit Cd absorption . This study suggests that exogenous ABA could be a potential strategy for improving Cd resistance in pepper and reducing Cd contamination in crops .
The global incidence of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) has surged in recent years , potentially impacted by both high-energy food intake ( e . g . , high-fat diet , HFD ) and environmental pollutants like microplastics ( MPs ) . However , the combined impacts of MPs exposure and HFD feeding , particularly under long-time exposure , low concentrations MPs conditions , on the MASLD progression remain to be fully elucidated . In this study , C57BL/6 J male mice were fed either a normal chow diet or HFD with or without low-dose MPs ( polystyrene ) exposure ( 25-30 mug/kg body weight /day ) for 14 weeks . The adverse health effects associated with MASLD development were evaluated , including intestinal permeability , gut microbiota composition , hepatic lipid metabolism , and the mediating role of the gut-liver axis . Additionally , HFD with or without low-dose MPs exposure was withdrawn to further verify this process . Our data demonstrated that low-dose MPs exposure or HFD feeding significantly increased the gut permeability , oxidative stress , pro-inflammatory response and apoptosis , while concurrently contributing to gut dysbiosis ( e . g . , reduced levels of Akkermansia ) and MASLD development . Furthermore , low-dose MPs exposure exacerbated these effects in combination with HFD feeding , exhibiting a ' double hit ' effect . Notably , the impacts of low-dose MPs exposure combined with HFD feeding on MASLD were difficult to reverse after two weeks withdrawing , likely due to the limited recovery potential of intestinal barrier integrity and gut microbiota homeostasis . These finding underscore the importance of avoiding MPs exposure in the pathogenesis of MASLD , particularly under a metabolic disorder conditions , and provide valuable insights for the developing therapeutic strategies to combat MASLD caused by MPs exposure .
Senkyunolide A ( SenA ) , a phthalide compound isolated from celery seed essential oil , is known for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties in various disease models . However , its impact on hepatic lipid metabolism and associated molecular mechanisms remain unclear . This study investigated the protective effects of SenA against lipotoxicity-induced hepatic steatosis and explored its underlying pathways . Lipid accumulation was assessed via Oil Red O staining , whereas protein expression was analyzed via Western blotting . Apoptosis was evaluated through TUNEL staining , caspase-3 activity , and cell viability assays . Oxidative stress was measured via DCFDA-based ROS detection and assays for MDA and HO . The role of SIRT6 was examined through siRNA-mediated knockdown . SenA treatment significantly reduced lipid deposition , apoptosis , oxidative stress , and fetuin-A expression in palmitate-treated hepatocytes . It also increased the expression of SIRT6 and Nrf2 , two key regulators of metabolic and redox homeostasis . Silencing SIRT6 diminished these protective effects , indicating its essential role in mediating SenA activity . These findings suggest that SenA mitigates hepatic steatosis by modulating oxidative stress and metabolic dysfunction via SIRT6/Nrf2 signaling . As a natural bioactive compound , SenA offers promise for the development of safer therapeutic strategies for managing nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , which has broader relevance to metabolic health .
Adiponectin ( ApN ) is an antidiabetic and anti-inflammatory protein synthesized by adipose tissue . It is essential in regulating insulin sensitivity , glucose , and lipid metabolism by controlling AMPK , PPARalpha , and MAPK signals . It is an anti-inflammatory property that protects pancreatic beta-cells . Often , low levels of ApN are linked to obesity , type II diabetes and the development of PDAC . However , changes in lifestyle and the use of certain drugs can improve ApN function and insulin sensitivity . PDAC is a highly aggressive cancer linked to obesity , type II diabetes , and insulin resistance . ApN plays a complex role in PDAC progression and can suppress PDAC development by weakening beta-catenin signaling . Decreases in ApN levels are associated with increased PDAC risk in diabetic patients . PDAC and diabetes are interconnected through the development of insulin resistance , islet dysfunction , change in immunological response , inflammation , oxidative stress , and altered hormone secretion . Genetic studies highlight specific genes like HNF4G and PDX1 that influence both conditions and miRNAs such as miR-19a promote tumor progression through the PI3K/AKT pathway . This review discusses the role of ApN in diabetes and PDAC and the interrelation between diabetes and PDAC .
Microplastics ( MPs ) and copper ( Cu ) are common co-pollutants in agricultural environments , yet their combined effects on plants remain poorly understood . This study investigated the individual and interactive impacts of Cu and polyvinyl chloride ( PVC ) -MPs on Perilla frutescens , a heavy metal hyperaccumulator and economically important crop , using hydroponic experiments . Low Cu concentrations ( <2 mg L ( -1 ) ) promoted growth , whereas higher levels ( >2 mg L ( -1 ) ) induced leaf chlorosis , curling , and root decay . PVC-MPs alone exhibited phytotoxicity only at high concentrations ( >1000 mg L ( -1 ) ) . In combined treatments , 10-100 mg L ( -1 ) PVC-MPs alleviated Cu-induced chlorosis and increased leaf area , though higher MP concentrations suppressed root growth . Physiologically , Cu stress impaired photosynthesis , enhanced antioxidant enzyme activity , and increased osmoregulatory substance content . PVC-MPs counteracted these effects by improving photosynthetic efficiency , enhancing peroxidase activity , and reducing osmotic stress markers . Transcriptomic analysis revealed that PVC-MPs upregulated endocytosis-related genes while downregulating jasmonic acid ( JA ) biosynthesis and lipid metabolism pathways . ABC transporter genes were differentially expressed , functionally linked to these processes . We demonstrate for the first time that PVC-MPs mitigate Cu stress via three synergistic mechanisms : enhanced membrane trafficking ( endocytosis activation ) , suppression of stress-signaling phytohormones ( JA ) , and lipid metabolism reprogramming . These findings redefine MPs ' dual role as both pollutants and unexpected alleviators of metal toxicity . While these findings reveal MPs ' unexpected capacity to alleviate metal stress , their persistent environmental accumulation necessitates comprehensive risk-benefit analysis and long-term ecological monitoring-highlighting the imperative for science-based evaluation rather than promoting field applications of MPs as stress mitigants .
The impact of supplementing multiple doses of single ss-mannanase ( BM ) in corn and soybean meal-based diets was investigated in Lohmann LSL lite hens . Corn and soybean meal-based diets were formulated to meet or exceed nutrient specifications and supplemented with BM at 0 , 200 , 400 , 800 and 1 , 200 TMU/kg of feed . All diets contained titanium dioxide indigestible marker and were prepared in mash form . Three hundred and twenty hens at 63 weeks of age ( woa ) were placed in enriched cages ( 4 birds/cage ) . Diets were allocated to give 16 replicate cages/diet . Birds had free access to water and feed to 83 woa . Hen day egg production ( HDEP ) , feed intake ( FI ) , FCR , egg weight ( EW ) , egg mass ( EM ) , eggshell breaking strength ( ESBS ) and thickness ( EST ) , Haugh unit ( HU ) and yolk color were reported at 4 weeks periods . Apparent retention ( AR ) of components and metabolizable energy ( AME ) were determined at 4th and 17th week of the experiment . Plasma metabolites , ceca digesta short chain fatty acids ( SCFA ) , body and organ weight were determined at the end of the experiment . Interactions ( P </= 05 ) between BM and period/sampling time point was observed for HDEP , EW , EM , FCR and AR of neutral detergent fiber ( ARNDF ) such that there were period dependent linear and non-linear responses to BM . Independent of the period , BM increased HDEP ( P = 025 , cubically ) , EW ( P </= 018 , linearly and quartically ) , EM ( P < 01 , quartically ) . The FCR reduced linearly ( P = 032 ) in response to BM . Birds receiving BM800 had higher ARNDF than birds receiving BM0 at 4th wk sampling . The ESBS increased ( P = 040 , cubically ) whereas HU decreased ( P = 048 , quadratically ) in response to BM . The AR of DM , CP and AME , plasma glucose , cholesterol , lactate dehydrogenase , lipase Ca , P , and abdominal fat increased ( P < 05 ) linearly in response to BM . There were no BM effects ( P > 05 ) on SCFA . In conclusion , BM improved HDEP ; egg quality and nutrient retention dose dependently . Moreover , plasma metabolites indicated positive effects on indices of carbohydrate and lipid metabolism .
Compound probiotics have gained increasing recognition as feed additives for improving feed conversion ratio and intestinal health of broilers . Two Lactobacillus strains ( Ligilactobacillus salivarius CML391 and Limosilactobacillus reuteri CML393 ) and two Bacillus strains ( Bacillus velezensis CML396 and Bacillus paralicheniformis CML399 ) were isolated from broiler intestines and combined to form a new compound probiotic ( referred to as " CML compound probiotic " ) . The effects of CML compound probiotic on broiler growth performance , antioxidant capacity , intestinal health , cecal microbiota , and microbial-derived metabolites were assessed in this study . A total of 120 male Arbor Acres chicks were randomly divided into two groups : a control group ( CON ) fed a basal diet and a CML group supplemented with the compound probiotic at 10 CFU/kg of diet . Dietary supplementation with CML compound probiotic promoted broiler growth performance , enhanced antioxidant capacity , and improved intestinal health . Furthermore , the CML compound probiotic modulated the cecal microbiota by increasing beneficial bacteria such as Bacteroides , Phocea and Defluviitaleaceae UCG-011 , and significantly elevated the concentrations of short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) . Metabolomic analysis revealed that the CML compound probiotic influenced lipid metabolism pathways , particularly glycerophospholipid and linoleic acid metabolism . In conclusion , this study indicated that the CML compound probiotic represents a valuable strategy for optimizing broiler growth performance and intestinal health .
Light exposure has significant effects on animal development , metabolism , and immune function ; however , few genes regulating these functional changes have been identified . In this study , a total of 160 broilers were randomly housed in 4 groups under different colors of light ( white , red , blue , and green , n = 40 each ) . Body , liver , and spleen weights and serum indices were measured at 56 days , and liver and spleen samples were taken for transcriptomic sequencing . Chicken body , liver , and spleen weights ; liver and spleen indices ; and serum triglyceride and cholesterol levels significantly increased under blue light . In the spleen , 520 , 713 , and 733 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , including CRLF2 , IFIH1 , STAT2 , XDH , were found in the red , blue , and green light groups , respectively , compared to the white light group . Compared with those in the white light group , a total of 436 , 825 , and 596 DEGs , including UPP2 , SCD , FASN , were found in the red , blue , and green light groups , respectively . A total of 47 modules were identified by weighted gene coexpression network analysis ( WGCNA ) , the darkolivegreen and royalblue modules of which were significantly positively correlated with blue light exposure and the liver , and the cyan and black modules were positively correlated with blue light exposure and the spleen . KEGG analysis of the hub genes with a |KME| > 8 in the module revealed that the effects of blue light on the liver were related mainly to NOD-like receptor signaling and PPAR signaling pathways . The effects of blue light on the spleen were primarily related to NOD-like receptor signaling and RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathways . Expression of UPP2 , FASN , and SCD , which promotes hepatic fat accumulation , was upregulated in the blue light group . Moreover , in the blue light group , upregulated XDH , CRLF2 , and IFIH1 expression facilitates the immunity of chickens . This study reveals potential pathways through which light affects lipid metabolism and immune function , providing new insights into how light influences animal development and production .
BACKGROUND : Adherence to lipid-lowering treatment ( LLT ) is of paramount importance for the prevention of atherosclerosis-related events ( ASCVD ) . The threshold for someone to be adherent is >/=80 % of the total prescribed medication . We conducted a meta-analysis to assess how adherence to LLT affects the development of ASCVD . METHODS : We searched PubMed ( up to February 2025 ) for randomized controlled trials , cohorts and nested case control studies that assessed adherence to LLT . We performed random effects meta-analysis with primary outcome the development of ASCVD based on the level of adherence to LLT . RESULTS : We included 66 articles corresponding to 3 , 345 , 718 individuals . All studies evaluated statins as LLT . Good vs . poor statin adherence reduced by 35 % the risk for all-cause mortality ( RR : 65 ; 95%CI : 56-76 ; I = 98 % ) , 24 % for any cardiovascular ( CV ) event ( RR : 76 ; 95%CI : 72-80 ; I = 90 % ) , 30 % for myocardial infarction ( MI ) ( RR : 70 ; 95%CI : 62-80 ; I = 90 % ) and 32 % for stroke ( RR : 68 ; 95%CI : 58-79 ; I = 81 % ) . For participants without established ASCVD , statin adherence reduced by 32 % the risk for any CV event ( RR : 68 ; 95%CI : 46-00 ; I = 97 % ) . For those with established ASCVD , statin adherence reduced by 25 % the risk for any CV event ( RR : 75 ; 95%CI : 64-88 ; I = 64 % ) , 51 % for MI ( RR : 49 ; 95%CI : 32-73 ; I = 80 % ) and 50 % for stroke ( RR : 50 ; 95%CI : 26-97 ; I = 87 % ) . Statin discontinuation increased by 90 % the mortality risk ( RR : 90 ; 95%CI : 33-71 ; I = 87 % ) . Even good vs . intermediate adherence ( 40 %-79 % ) decreased by 32 % the risk for any CV event ( RR : 68 ; 95%CI : 60-76 ; I = 94 % ) . Sensitivity analyses including studies with different than the standard ( >/=80 % ) threshold did not differ from the main results . CONCLUSION : Statin adherence is of paramount importance to reduce ASCVD risk and mortality . Understanding adherence patterns or barriers and ensuring consistent adherence to LLT by tailored interventions should be a key priority in clinical practice and healthcare policies .
Functional short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels were developed using three different gelators . The mechanism of introducing short-chain fatty acids to the glycerol skeleton influencing the self-assembly of oleogels was investigated . Compared to camellia oil oleogels , the thermal stability and mechanical strength of short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels decreased by 17-37 J/g ( -1 ) and 27-39 N , respectively . The crystalline sizes , distance between molecules and the final sub-cell size in short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels were increased , while hydrogen bonding and van der Waals interactions were weakened , resulting in a weak crystal network structure . Besides , free fatty acids release by short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels ( 83 %-91 % ) was higher than that by camellia oil oleogels ( 01 %-99 % ) . These findings indicate that short- and long-chain acyl triacylglycerols oleogels exhibiting a weaker structure but a higher lipolysis degree , facilitated fatty acid absorption .
Macrophage foam cells derived from vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs ) account for 30-70 % of foam cells in atherosclerotic lesions . Liver X receptor ( LXR ) agonists promote high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) -mediated cholesterol efflux from macrophages . This study aimed to investigate the effects of LXR activation on the reverse cholesterol transport ( RCT ) rate from VSMCs to feces in vivo . Both human and mouse VSMCs exhibited similar levels of cholesterol efflux when exposed to serum and HDL . However , cholesterol efflux was significantly reduced following methyl-beta-cyclodextrin ( MBD ) -cholesterol loading , while treatment with the LXR agonist T090137 markedly enhanced efflux . Radiolabeled foam-like VSMCs injected intraperitoneally into mice exhibited impaired cholesterol transfer to serum , HDL , and feces compared to non-lipid-laden VSMCs . Pre-treatment with the LXR agonist increased radiolabeled cholesterol levels in serum and HDL and doubled its fecal excretion . Furthermore , LXR activation restored RCT from MBD-cholesterol-loaded VSMCs to feces , reaching levels comparable to those of non-lipid-laden cells . Treatment with an acyl-coenzyme A : cholesterol acyltransferase ( ACAT ) inhibitor fully restored RCT rates in foam-like VSMCs , and the combination of the ACAT inhibitor and the LXR agonist further enhanced RCT . These findings indicate that HDL-mediated cholesterol efflux is significantly impaired during the transition of VSMCs into foam cells . Pharmacological activation of LXR enhances RCT from VSMCs to feces in vivo and restores the impaired RCT from transitioning VSMCs . The combination of LXR agonists and ACAT inhibitors holds promise as a synergistic therapeutic approach to restoring cholesterol homeostasis in lipid-laden VSMCs , offering potential strategies to mitigate atherosclerosis .
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) are well integrated into multiple facets of cellular physiology and potentially represent an effective platform for the engineering of heterologous metabolic pathways . LDs of chloroplasts , known as plastoglobules , are critical mediators of stress tolerance through dynamic and reversible changes to morphology and molecular composition , however the dynamics and functional role ( s ) of cyanobacterial LDs are almost wholly unknown . We have characterized the morphological behavior and quantitative proteome and lipidome of cyanobacterial LDs of Synechocystis sp . PCC 6803 grown under permissive or P-deficient media for 7 days . Our results show that cyanobacterial LDs are a metabolically active sub-compartment of cyanobacteria with dynamic morphology and composition . The proteome and lipidome is qualitatively similar to that of plant plastoglobules including an enrichment of prenyl lipids and presence of twelve orthologs of A . thaliana plastoglobule proteins . In view of these results , we propose to name cyanobacterial LDs as cyanoglobules . In addition , we identify the cyanoglobules as the site of accumulation of various plastoquinone derivatives containing hydroxyl- and/or acyl- groups on their solanesyl tail or quinone head . Deletion mutants of selected cyanoglobule proteins reveal impairments in growth , pigmentation and photosynthesis . Our results collectively support an evolutionary relationship between cyanoglobules and plastoglobules and reveal a possible central role for cyanoglobules in organismal physiology and stress adaptation .
Cardiovascular diseases including atherosclerosis and heart failure , arise from the intricate interplay of metabolic , immune , and neural dysregulation within vascular and cardiac tissues : This review focuses on integrating recent advances in metabolic and immune crosstalk of the cardiac vasculature that affects cardiometabolic health and disease progression . Coronary and lymphatic endothelial cells regulate cardiac metabolism , and their dysfunction is linked to cardiovascular diseases . Lymphatics maintain tissue homeostasis , including clearing metabolic waste , lipids , and immune cells , and their maladaptation in metabolic diseases worsens outcomes . Altered vascular endothelial metabolism in heart failure drives immune-mediated inflammation , fibrosis , and adverse cardiac remodeling . Concurrently , artery tertiary lymphoid organs formed in the adventitia of advanced atherosclerotic arteries , serve as pivotal neuroimmune hubs , coordinating local immunity through T and B cell activation and neurovascular signaling via artery-brain circuits . T cells within plaques and artery tertiary lymphoid organs undergo clonal expansion as a result of peripheral tolerance breakdown , with proinflammatory CD4 ( + ) and CD8 ( + ) subsets amplifying atherosclerosis , effects further shaped by systemic immune activation . Therapeutic strategies targeting endothelial cell metabolism , lymphatic dysfunction , neuroimmune crosstalk , and T cell plasticity hold promise for integrated cardiovascular disease management . FAU - Mohanta , Sarajo K
Heart failure afflicts >6 million individuals in the United States alone and is associated with significant mortality ( approximately 40% within 5 years of diagnosis ) and cost ( estimated to exceed $70 billion in the United States by 2030 ) . Obesity is a major risk factor for the development of heart failure . The contribution of excess adipose tissue to heart failure pathogenesis is multifactorial . For example , adipose tissue-driven inflammation contributes to the development of other cardiometabolic comorbidities , such as hypertension , leading to left ventricular pressure overload and adverse remodeling of the heart . Adipose tissue also functions as an endocrine organ , and altered secretion of proteins , lipid mediators , metabolites , and small extracellular vesicles ( collectively referred to as the secretome ) from dysfunctional fat can lead to cardiac inflammation and oxidative stress , which drive changes in structure and function of the heart . In this review , we begin with an overview of current therapies for obesity and what is known about how they influence the heart . Then we focus on mechanisms by which fat communicates with the heart via secreted factors and highlight druggable nodes in this circuit that could be exploited to develop next-generation therapies for heart failure . FAU - Salyer , Lorien G
Heart failure is a global health issue with significant mortality and morbidity . There is increasing evidence that alterations in the gastrointestinal microbiome , gut epithelial permeability , and gastrointestinal disorders contribute to heart failure progression through various pathways , including systemic inflammation , metabolic dysregulation , and modulation of cardiac function . Moreover , several medications used to treat heart failure directly impact the microbiome . The relationship between the gastrointestinal tract and the heart is bidirectional , termed the gut-heart axis . It is increasingly understood that diet-derived microbial metabolites are key mechanistic drivers of the gut-heart axis . This includes , for example , trimethylamine N-oxide and short-chain fatty acids . This review discusses current insights into the interplay between heart failure , its associated risk factors , and the gut microbiome , focusing on key metabolic pathways , the role of dietary interventions , and the potential for gut-targeted therapies . Understanding these complex interactions could pave the way for novel strategies to mitigate heart failure progression and improve patient outcomes . FAU - Snelson , Matthew
The heart does not work in isolation , with cardiac health and disease occurring through complex interactions between the heart with multiple organs . Furthermore , the integration of organ-specific lipid metabolism , blood pressure , insulin sensitivity , and inflammation involves a complex network of signaling pathways between many organs . Dysregulation in these communications is now recognized as a key contributor to many manifestations of cardiovascular disease . Mechanistic characterization of specific molecules mediating interorgan signaling has been pivotal in advancing our understanding of cardiovascular disease . The discovery of insulin , glucagon , and other hormones in the early 20th century illustrated the importance of communication between organs in maintaining physiological homeostasis . For example , elegant studies evaluating insulin signaling and its role in regulating glucose metabolism have shed light on its broader impact on cardiovascular health , hypertension , atherosclerosis , and other cardiovascular disease risks . Recent technological advances have revolutionized our understanding of interorgan signaling . Global approaches such as proteomics and metabolomics applications to blood have enabled the simultaneous profiling of thousands of circulating factors , revealing previously unknown signaling molecules and pathways . These large-scale studies have identified biomarkers linked to early stages of heart disease and offered new therapeutic targets . By understanding how specific cells in the heart interact with cells in other organs , such as the kidney or liver , researchers can identify key pathways that , when disrupted , lead to cardiovascular pathology . The ability to capture a more holistic view of the cardiovascular system positions interorgan signaling at the forefront of cardiovascular research . As we continue to refine our tools for mapping these complex networks , the insights gained hold the potential to not only improve early diagnosis but also to develop more targeted and effective treatments for cardiovascular disease . In this review , we discuss current approaches used to enhance our understanding of organ crosstalk with a specific emphasis on cardiac and cardiovascular physiology . FAU - Bae , Hosung
OBJECTIVE : Homozygous knockout of scavenger receptor class B type I ( SR-B1 ) in mice with atherogenic mutations ( such as knockout of the apolipoprotein E or low density lipoprotein receptor genes ) results in spontaneous or diet-induced coronary heart disease characterized by atherosclerosis development in the aortic sinus and coronary arteries , platelet accumulation in coronary artery plaques , myocardial fibrosis , and early death . However , the extent of coronary artery atherothrombosis and myocardial fibrosis in mice lacking SR-B1 alone ( homozygous SR-B1 knockout mice ) has not been examined . Although age is a major risk factor for coronary artery disease , few studies directly examine the effects of age on susceptibility to atherosclerosis or coronary artery atherothrombosis and myocardial fibrosis in mice . Therefore , we set out to examine the effects of age on diet-induced atherosclerosis in female homozygous SR-B1 knockout mice . APPROACH AND RESULTS : SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited little-to-no aortic sinus or coronary artery atherosclerosis at 52 weeks of age , when fed a normal diet . However when fed a high-fat , high-cholesterol , cholate-containing ( HFCC ) diet for 12 weeks from either 14 weeks of age ( 26-week-old at analysis ) or 40 weeks of age ( 52-week-old at analysis ) , they developed similar degrees of atherosclerosis in their aortic sinuses . Interestingly , the older aged SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited increased coronary artery atherosclerosis , increased vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 levels and platelet accumulation in coronary arteries , and increased myocardial fibrosis and plasma levels of cardiac troponin I compared to the younger aged mice . Older-aged HFCC diet-fed SR-B1 knockout mice also exhibited reduced survival to humane endpoint . Moreover , older-aged HFCC diet-fed SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited a greater inflammatory state with increased levels of circulating interleukin-6 , tumour necrosis factor alpha , and neutrophils , despite plasma lipid levels being unchanged . Consistent with the increased circulating neutrophils , older-aged HFCC diet-fed SR-B1 knockout mice exhibited increased accumulation of the neutrophil marker myeloperoxidase and increased neutrophil extracellular traps in atherosclerotic plaques in the aortic sinus and increased abundance of atherosclerotic coronary arteries containing neutrophil extracellular traps . CONCLUSIONS : HFCC diet-fed homozygous SR-B1 knockout mice develop occlusive coronary artery atherothrombosis and myocardial fibrosis in an age-dependent manner , and exhibit an increased inflammatory state with older age . Therefore , aged SR-B1 knockout mice may prove to be an attractive mouse model to analyze age-dependent mechanisms associated with coronary artery disease development , which may facilitate the discovery of more effective therapeutics to treat cardiovascular disease .
There is a notable scarcity of information concerning particulate matter in urine . This study presents an initial investigation that uses flow cytometry to determine the particulate content in the urine of healthy individuals , focusing on particles within a diameter range of 33-70 microm . Imaging flow cytometry was combined with fluorescent tagging and a birefringence technique to characterize particulate matter in terms of concentration , type , and size . This method enabled the identification and quantification of total particles within a sample , as well as the characterization of specific subtypes , including lipid-associated particles , protein aggregates , lipid-protein complexes , particles containing calcium ( such as calcium oxalate crystals ) , DNA-containing particles ( including cells and bacteria ) , and crystalline structures . Benchmark ranges for particulate matter present in urine were categorized according to subgroups that account for the influence of age , gender , and time of sampling , yielding valuable insights into the total number of particles traversing the human urinary tract daily . Significantly , the analysis here suggests that approximately 320 x 106 particles may pass through the urinary tract each day . Examination of a range of potential correlations among samples indicated that the total particle concentrations remained statistically similar . More specifically , there were no significant concentration differences in urine samples relative to sampling time , gender , or age . These findings provide valuable insights into the variability of urinary particulate matter and lay the groundwork for future , larger-scale studies . Ultimately , this research contributes to understanding urinary tract function and may potentially lead to identifying novel markers for various health conditions .
Epstein-Barr virus ( EBV ) is a gamma herpesvirus that infects up to 95% of the human population by adulthood , typically remaining latent in the host memory B cell pool . In immunocompromised individuals , EBV can drive the transformation and rapid proliferation of infected B cells , ultimately resulting in neoplasia . The same transformation process can be induced in vitro , with EBV-infected peripheral blood B cells forming immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines ( LCLs ) within weeks . In this study , we found that the fatty acid desaturases stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 ( SCD1 ) and fatty acid desaturase 2 ( FADS2 ) are upregulated by EBV and crucial for EBV-induced B cell proliferation . We show that pharmacological and genetic inhibition of both SCD1 and FADS2 results in a significantly greater reduction in proliferation and cell cycle arrest , compared to perturbing either enzyme individually . Additionally , we found that inhibiting either SCD1 or FADS2 alone hypersensitizes LCLs to palmitate-induced apoptosis . Further free fatty acid profiling and metabolic analysis of dual SCD1/FADS2-inhibited LCLs revealed an increase in free unsaturated fatty acids , a reduction of oxidative phosphorylation , and a reduction of glycolysis , thereby linking the activity of SCD1 and FADS2 to overall growth-promoting metabolism . Lastly , we show that SCD1 and FADS2 are important in the growth of clinically derived EBV+ immunoblastic lymphoma cells . Collectively , these data demonstrate a previously uncharacterized role of lipid desaturation in EBV+ transformed B cell proliferation , revealing a metabolic pathway that can be targeted in future anti-lymphoma therapies .
Gram-negative bacterial cell envelope consists of a surface-exposed lipid bilayer ( outer membrane or OM ) that serves as a permeability barrier to maintain the cellular integrity . Beneath the OM is the periplasmic space that harbours peptidoglycan ( PG ) , a highly cross-linked mesh-like glycan polymer closely encasing the inner membrane ( IM ) . During growth of a bacterium balanced synthesis of the envelope components is required to maintain the cellular integrity , of which little is known . In this study , we identify sanA , an ORF of unknown function encoding a predicted IM-anchored protein as a factor contributing to balanced synthesis of PG in E . coli . Absence of SanA increased the rate of nascent PG strand incorporation , and restored growth and viability to several mutants defective in either cell division or cell elongation . Detailed mutant analysis of sanA showed that it is defective in the envelope barrier properties . Interestingly , overexpression of the periplasmic endopeptidases that cleave the cross-links of the PG mesh was able to alleviate the phenotypes of sanA mutant implying the envelope defects are due to alterations in the PG sacculus . Additionally , a SanA variant ( SSDsbA-SanA ) targeted to the periplasm , complemented the SanA- phenotypes suggesting it functions in the periplasmic phase of the PG synthesis . Further , we find that SanA functions independently of its paralog , ElyC , known to regulate the synthesis of enterobacterial common antigen ( ECA ) , a surface polysaccharide found in the cell envelopes of most enteric bacteria . Overall , our results suggest a role for SanA in the maintenance of optimal PG synthesis , providing evidence for the existence of an additional layer of regulation in Gram-negative cell envelope biogenesis .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is a common condition with limited FDA-approved treatments due to its complex pathogenesis . Metabolic stress-induced lipotoxicity triggers the unfolded protein response , leading to the development of NAFLD through inflammation and apoptosis . Moreover , metabolic dysregulation compromises autophagic capacity , impairing effective ERphagy and lipophagy in the liver . Fisetin ( FSN ) , a flavonoid present in various fruits and vegetables , has demonstrated the ability to regulate the processes mentioned above and possesses a range of biological properties . In this study using a high-fat diet-induced NAFLD mouse model , treatment with FSN at a dosage of 80 mg/kg per day for eight weeks resulted in reduced hepatic lipid accumulation . This effect was mediated by modulating ER stress through enhancing autophagic activity , as indicated by decreased expression of GRP78 , elf2a , ATF4 , and CHOP genes , along with increased AMPK phosphorylation , decreased mTOR expression , and elevated levels of ULK1 , ATG5 , and Beclin Additionally , there was an increase in the LCII/LC3I ratio and a reduction in p62 levels in hepatic tissue . Our findings suggest that FSN exerts its effects by activating the AMPK/mTOR signaling pathway and its downstream targets , underscoring its potential therapeutic advantages in managing NAFLD by targeting autophagy and ER stress pathways .
Potassium ( K+ ) is the most abundant intracellular cation , but much remains unknown regarding how K+ homeostasis is integrated with other key bacterial biology aspects . Here , we show that K+ homeostasis disruption ( CeoBC K+ uptake system deletion ) impedes Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) response to , and growth in , cholesterol , a critical carbon source during infection , with K+ augmenting activity of the Mtb ATPase MceG that is vital for bacterial cholesterol import . Reciprocally , cholesterol directly binds to CeoB , modulating its function , with a residue critical for this interaction identified . Finally , cholesterol binding-deficient CeoB mutant Mtb are attenuated for growth in lipid-rich foamy macrophages and in vivo colonization . Our findings raise the concept of a role for cholesterol as a key co-factor , beyond its role as a carbon source , and illuminate how changes in intrabacterial K+ levels can act as part of the metabolic adaptation critical for bacterial survival and growth in the host .
OBJECTIVE : Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide , with high mortality rates partially due to limited therapeutic options and drug resistance . Arsenic trioxide ( ATO ) , a compound clinically proven for acute promyelocytic leukemia ( APL ) , has garnered attention for its emerging efficacy in solid tumors , including HCC . However , the molecular mechanisms driving ATO ' s antitumor activity in HCC remain incompletely understood . In this study , we aimed to elucidate the ferroptosis-dependent effects of ATO on HCC and and propose a potential therapeutic strategy . METHODS : The response of HCC cells to ATO was evaluated using cell viability , wound healing , colony formation , Transwell migration assays , and cell cycle analysis . ATO-induced ferroptosis was assessed by measuring lipid peroxidation ( via C11-BODIPY staining ) , intracellular iron levels , and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) production . Western blotting was performed to quantify protein levels of NRF2 , HO-1 , SLC7A11 , and GPX4 ; immunofluorescence staining was employed to determine NRF2 subcellular localization . RESULTS : ATO exhibited significant cytotoxicity and inhibited the progression of HCC cells . Treatment with ATO resulted in a notable increase in lipid ROS and MDA levels , which were subsequently reversed by the ferroptosis inhibitors Fer-1 and DFO . Mechanistically , ATO induced ferroptosis by inhibiting GPX Furthermore , NRF2 and its downstream targets , HO-1 and SLC7A11 , were upregulated during ferroptosis . NRF2 knockdown enhanced lipid peroxidation and ATO-induced cell death . CONCLUSIONS : ATO significantly promoted ferroptosis in HCC cells , and NRF2 knockdown enhanced the cytotoxic effects of ATO .
The skin microbiome is an essential component on our skin and is critical for the maintenance of skin health . It consists of a diverse ecosystem of bacteria , fungi , and viruses . Different body sites in humans exhibit vastly different levels of sebum , temperature , and pH , therefore the microbes that colonize these areas have adapted to create a niche for colonization . Healthy microbial diversity is important in the normal function of the skin , and imbalances in microbial diversity in the skin microbiome have been found to correlate with several skin diseases , such as atopic dermatitis , acne vulgaris , psoriasis , and chronic wound infections . These microorganisms , especially commensal bacteria , produce various metabolites such as short-chain fatty acids , antimicrobial peptides , siderophores , and tryptophan-derived metabolites . These metabolites can interact with and aid the host in processes , such as wound healing and colonization resistance . Metabolites produced by skin commensals have promising therapeutical potential for drug-resistant bacterial infections in place of conventional antibiotics to combat widespread antibiotic resistance . In this review , we will discuss the composition of the skin microbiota and the different classes of metabolites produced by its members , as well as how changes in the skin microbiome impact certain disease conditions .
INTRODUCTION : This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated the lipid-lowering efficacy and safety of evolocumab in statin-treated patients at high cardiovascular risk , focusing on changes in LDL-C , TG , ApoB , HDL-C , and Lp ( a ) after 12 weeks . METHODS : A comprehensive search identified randomized controlled trials comparing evolocumab to placebo in adults on statin therapy . Studies reporting baseline and 12-week lipid and safety data were included . Risk of bias was assessed using the Cochrane tool . Random-effects models were used to calculate mean differences ( MD ) or odds ratios ( OR ) with 95% confidence intervals ( CI ) . RESULTS : Five trials with 4 , 009 participants were analyzed . Evolocumab significantly reduced LDL-C ( MD : -67 ; 95% CI : -72 to -61 ) , TG , ApoB , and Lp ( a ) , and increased HDL-C . No significant difference was observed in total TEAEs ( OR : 97 ; 95% CI : 84 to 14 ) or serious TEAEs ( OR : 23 ; 95% CI : 80 to 89 ) versus placebo . CONCLUSIONS : Evolocumab offers robust lipid-lowering benefits with a safety profile comparable to placebo in statin-treated patients . Limitations include short follow-up and variable statin regimens . Further long-term studies are needed to confirm cardiovascular outcome benefits . PROTOCOL REGISTRATION : www . crd . york . ac . uk/prospero identifier is CRD FAU - Jha , Mayank
Diabetic kidney disease ( DKD ) is the leading cause of end stage kidney disease . Kidney tubular cells have a high energy demand , dependent on fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) . Although carnitine is indispensable for FAO , the pathological role of carnitine deficiency in DKD is not fully understood . We showed here that ectopic lipid accumulation due to impaired FAO increased in patients with DKD and inversely correlated with renal function . OCTN2 deficient mice exhibited systemic carnitine deficiency with increased renal lipid accumulation . Cell death and inflammation were induced in OCTN2-deficient , but not wild-type tubular cells exposed to high salt and high glucose . Compared with SDT fatty rats , uninephrectomized SDT fatty rats fed with 3% NaCl had higher lipid accumulation and exhibited increased urinary albumin excretion with renal dysfunction and tubulointerstitial injury , all of which were ameliorated by L-carnitine supplementation via stimulating FAO and mitochondrial biogenesis . In our single-center randomized control trial with patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis , L-carnitine supplementation preserved residual renal function and increased urine volume , the latter of which was correlated with improvement of tubular injury . The present study demonstrates the pathological role of impairment of carnitine-induced FAO in DKD , suggesting that L-carnitine supplementation is a potent therapeutic strategy for this devastating disorder . FAU - Ito , Sakuya
The mycobacterial cytoskeletal protein Wag31 is necessary for maintaining cell shape and directing cellular growth and elongation . Wag31 has a characteristic N-terminal DivIVA-domain and a C-terminal coiled-coil domain . While the role of Wag31 in polar elongation is known , there is limited mechanistic insight on how it orchestrates growth and elongation . In this report , we delineate roles of the N- and C-terminal domains of Wag31 using genetics , state-of-the-art multi-omics , biochemical , and imaging approaches . We show that Wag31 predominantly interacts with several membrane-associated proteins involved in lipid metabolism , cell wall synthesis , and division . Native levels of Wag31 are critical for the maintenance and distribution of membrane lipids . Both depletion and overexpression of Wag31 perturb lipid homeostasis , leading to the formation of intracellular lipid inclusions ( ILIs ) . Protein-lipid crosslinking and imaging studies reveal that purified Wag31 can bind and effectively tether cardiolipin ( CL ) -containing liposomes . We further show that the tethering activity lies in the DivIVA-domain containing N-terminal of Wag31 while the C-terminal mediates protein-protein interactions of Wag Despite retaining its ability to interact with partner proteins , the DivIVA-domain-deleted Wag31 mutant shows defects in liposome tethering in vitro and non-polar localization of CL in vivo , which eventually causes lethality . Our study suggests that membrane tethering ' licenses ' Wag31 to form scaffolds that help orchestrate protein-lipid and protein-protein interactions necessary for mycobacterial growth and survival .
PURPOSE : Visual impairment from normal-tension glaucoma ( NTG ) poses an increasing burden , yet the underlying mechanism remains unclear . Investigating protective mechanisms for NTG is critical . We aimed to investigate the role of ferroptosis in retinal ganglion cell ( RGC ) damage in glutamate-aspartate transporter ( GLAST ) knockout ( GLAST-/- ) mice , a model for NTG , and also to determine whether inhibiting ferroptosis can provide neuroprotection . METHODS : GLAST-/- mice and a glutamate-induced excitotoxicity model in primary RGCs were used to investigate retinal and RGC damage . RNA sequencing identified ferroptosis-related pathways in GLAST-/- retinas . Oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation , and ferroptosis activation were assessed using western blotting and immunofluorescence . Immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) assessed lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis activation in human retinal tissue . Ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) was administered to evaluate its neuroprotective effects on RGC survival , retinal thickness , and visual function . RESULTS : RNA sequencing revealed significant enrichment of ferroptosis-related pathways in GLAST-/- retinas . Both GLAST deletion and glutamate-induced excitotoxicity increased oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation , and ferroptosis activation in RGCs . IHC in human retinas confirmed elevated 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) and acyl-coenzyme A synthetase long-chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) expression . Furthermore , Fer-1 treatment significantly reduced lipid peroxidation , thereby attenuating the ferroptosis pathways . This intervention ameliorated RGC loss associated with GLAST deletion , protected retinal structure and thickness , and improved amplitudes of the photopic negative response , a-wave , b-wave , and oscillatory potentials . CONCLUSIONS : Ferroptosis significantly contributes to RGC and retinal damage in the GLAST-deletion NTG model . Inhibiting ferroptosis with Fer-1 presents a promising therapeutic strategy for protecting visual function in NTG . FAU - Ye , Huiwen
Natural Killer T ( NKT ) cells , a specialized subset of T cells , play a pivotal role in immune surveillance . They recognize lipid antigens presented by the MHC class I-like molecule CD1d , bridging innate and adaptive immunity . NKT cells exhibit both pro-inflammatory and immunoregulatory properties , impacting various pathological states , including infections , autoimmune diseases , and cancer . The NKT hybridoma cell stimulation assay is a powerful tool for detecting and characterizing NKT cells , as well as screening natural and synthetic lipid antigens , potentially leading to novel therapeutic interventions . Here , we describe two complementary methods ( cell-free and cell-based ) to stimulate NKT hybridoma cells to secrete cytokine , which serves as an indirect measure of NKT cell activation . These assays provide insight into the intricate interplay between NKT cells , lipids , and other immune cell subsets , including antigen-presenting cells , and their impact on immune regulation and disease progression .
Insects and mammals share a similar innate immune system . Galleria mellonella ( L . ) , a beekeeping pest , is an alternative model organism for human health studies due to its immune response similarity and ability to be maintained at 37 degrees C . While oxidative stress and genotoxicity cause diseases , antioxidant enzymes and epigenetic mechanisms are effective in immunological response processes . Although parasitoid venoms are potential candidates for pharmacological applications such as anticoagulant , antibiotic , painkiller , antiviral and anticancer agents , the information pool is scarce to reflect their effects in humans . In an attempt to reveal the pharmaceutical significance of parasitoid venoms and their potential effects on human health , different venom doses of Pimpla turionellae ( L . ) , the solitary endoparasitoid of G . mellonella , were injected into the host . Then , the levels of protein content , advanced oxidised protein products , lipid peroxidation , antioxidant power and glutathione in host haemolymph , and the amounts of methylation marker 5-methyldeoxycytidine monophosphate and strand breakage rates under neutral and alkaline conditions in host DNA were analysed . Principal component analysis was performed to determine the number of components that oxidative parameters depend on , and multivariate correlation analysis was applied to evaluate the effects of the parameters on each other . It was concluded that P . turionellae venom appeared to be one of the most effective pharmaceutical agents among parasitoid venoms . Also , the 01 venom reservoir equivalent dose qualified as immunotherapeutic dose .
Fatty acid binding protein 7 ( FABP7 ) is a pivotal cytoplasmic protein involved in the transport and metabolism of fatty acids , with critical functions in the nervous system . This review highlights recent advances in understanding the role and mechanisms of FABP7 in neurological diseases . It begins with an overview of FABP7 ' s distribution and expression in the nervous system , emphasizing its involvement in essential biological processes such as lipid metabolism , energy regulation , synaptic transmission , cell growth , and neuroinflammation . This review also explores FABP7 ' s associations with major neurological disorders , including Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , schizophrenia , and depression , shedding light on its dual roles in neuroprotection and neurodegeneration . These findings position FABP7 as a promising target for novel therapeutic strategies . By unraveling its precise mechanisms and contributions to both neural health and disease , future research on FABP7 has the potential to revolutionize treatments for neurological disorders , offering innovative directions for therapeutic development .
BACKGROUND : The occurrence of hypertension combined with diabetes can lead to a continuous deterioration in the physical condition of elderly patients . Health management , as an indispensable part of medical services , can achieve early prevention of diseases , early treatment of existing conditions , and the integration of prevention and treatment . OBJECTIVE : We aimed to explore the impact of health management on blood pressure and blood glucose levels , health knowledge mastery , medication adherence , self-management abilities , and quality of life in elderly patients with hypertension ( HTN ) and diabetes mellitus ( DM ) . METHODS : One hundred and fifty elderly patients with HTN and DM who underwent physical examinations from January 2022 to December 2023 were enrolled . Those who received routine health management from January 2022 to December 2022 were assigned to the control group , while those who received comprehensive health management from January 2023 to December 2023 were assigned to the observation group , with 75 patients in each group . Key outcomes were compared , including lipid profiles , blood pressure , glycosylated hemoglobin , fasting plasma glucose , 2-hour postprandial blood glucose , the time taken for physical examinations , patient compliance rates , and physical examination accuracy rates , disease-related knowledge scores , self-management capacity through ESCA scale , quality of life through DSQL scale , and medication adherence through MMAS-8 scale . RESULTS : The observation group demonstrated lower lipid levels , blood pressure , and glycemic indices , along with improved examination efficiency , higher disease knowledge scores , higher ESCA scale and MMAS-8 scale scores , and lower DSQL scale scores than the control group ( P < 01 ) . CONCLUSION : Providing health management to elderly patients with HTN and DM significantly reduced blood lipid , blood pressure , and blood glucose levels , improve patients ' self-management ability , quality of life , and medication adherence , thereby contributing to disease management .
PURPOSE : Midkine ( MK ) has been shown to facilitate atherosclerotic plaque formation by downregulating the expression of ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 ( ABCA1 ) . However , the mechanism by which MK regulates ABCA1 to promote atherosclerosis remains incompletely understood . In this study , we sought to investigate the molecular mechanism by which MK ' s regulation of ABCA1 influences the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis . METHODS : Male apoE ( -/- ) mice were subjected to a high-fat diet to establish an atherosclerosis model . The model mice received intraperitoneal injections of MK and activator protein-1 ( AP-l ) inhibitor SR The ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 ( ABCA1 ) and AP1 expression were detected using immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) , quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( qPCR ) , and western blotting ( WB ) . RAW7 macrophages were incubated with oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL ) to generate foam cells . These foam cells were treated with MK , SR11302 , JNK inhibitor SP600125 , and PI3K inhibitor wortmannin . The expression of ABCA1 , AP-1 , JNK , and PI3K were detected using qPCR and WB . The cholesterol efflux and lipid accumulation of cells were analyzed using scintillation counting and oil red O staining , respectively . RESULTS : MK-treated mice exhibited an accelerated development of atherosclerotic lesion ( 30% in the MK group vs . 20% in the control group ) , along with hepatic steatosis and lipid disorder . The expression of c-fos and AP-1 were up-regulated by MK in macrophages . Compared with the MK-treated group , inhibition of AP-1 using SR11302 or transfection with c-fos siRNA markedly enhanced the cholesterol efflux ( 73% in the MK + SR11302 group vs . 98% in the MK group , 73% in the MK + si-c-fos group vs . 02 % in the MK group ) , reduced lipid accumulation , and increased the protein levels of ABCA1 in macrophages . Compared to the MK-treated group , mice treated with both MK and SR11302 showed downregulated ABCA1 expression in aortic sinus lesions , a larger lesion area ( 59% vs . 54% ) , and significantly elevated levels of plasma total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , and triglycerides ( TG ) . These results suggest that MK-induced pharmacological inhibition of AP-1 augmented ABCA1 expression in plaques , ameliorated lipid disorders , and abrogated atherosclerosis progression in apoE ( -/- ) mice . In addition , in vitro experiments revealed that the MK-induced up-regulation of c-fos expression was effectively suppressed by inhibitors of JNK and PI3K . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings unveil a novel mechanistic pathway in atherosclerosis , whereby MK promotes the development of atherosclerosis by up-regulating AP-1 in macrophages via the PI3K/AKT/JNK signaling cascade .
Real-world data indicate that the management of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) is suboptimal in clinical practice and that many patients fail to reach guideline-recommended LDL-C goals . This may be due in part to physician inertia with regard to prescribing appropriate lipid-lowering therapies or poor adherence to such therapies in real-world practice . Shared decision-making is a collaborative process in which patients and healthcare professionals work together to develop treatment plans and management strategies that consider an individual ' s values and preferences , as well as clinical evidence . In this commentary , two preventive cardiologists and a nurse practitioner working in US practice discuss their real-world experiences of shared decision-making as well as key benefits such as helping to tackle the negative impacts of medical misinformation to restore patients ' trust in healthcare professionals . Other potential benefits of shared decision-making include increased adherence to therapy and greater trust between patients and healthcare professionals . Finally , the authors discuss proposed solutions for potential barriers to the implementation of shared decision-making , including the support of a multidisciplinary team , the provision of learning materials from trustworthy sources , and tailoring of discussions to the individual patient .
This study investigated the effects of prenatal exposure to pequi oil and 17alpha-ethinylestradiol ( EE2 ) on the histomorphometry and receptor expression ( androgen receptor ( AR ) and estrogen receptor alpha ( ERalpha ) in gerbil ovaries ( Meriones unguiculatus ) during aging . Experimental groups included : control , vehicle ( mineral oil ) , EE2 : 15 microg/kg/day from gestational days 18-22 , EE2/Pe : EE2 from days 18-22 and 300 mg/kg of pequi oil from days 18-26 , and Pe : pequi oil only , via gavage . Female offspring were euthanized at 12 months , and ovaries were collected , processed histologically , and sectioned . Histological sections were stained with hematoxylin-eosin to analyze the superficial epithelium height and the tunica albuginea thickness . Immunohistochemistry for AR and ERalpha was performed , and the percentage of positive nuclei for these receptors was quantified in the theca interna , granulosa cells within follicles , and the interstitial gland . Data were analyzed using analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) , Tukey ' s , and Kruskal-Wallis tests . The data revealed a significant decrease ( p < 05 ) in the thickness of the tunica albuginea in the EE2 group , whereas this thickness was increased in the EE2/Pe and Pe groups . Epithelial height was lower in the EE2 group and higher in the EE2/Pe group . No significant changes in AR immunoreactivity were observed . In multilaminar follicles , ERalpha immunostaining was elevated in granulosa cells in the Pe group and in theca cells of the EE2 group . Additionally , the interstitial gland in the Pe group showed an increase in ERalpha expression . Pequi oil exposure upregulated ERalpha more markedly than AR during folliculogenesis and in interstitial cells , suggesting endocrine-modulating potential and relevance for ovarian regulation during aging .
BACKGROUND : Atherosclerosis , a major cause of global mortality , involves the transformation of macrophages into foam cells , which is a key pathological process . This study aims to elucidate the molecular mechanisms that contribute to foam cell formation and the progression of atherosclerosis . METHODS AND RESULTS : We performed a comprehensive bioinformatics analysis of transcriptome data to identify differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) associated with atherosclerosis . Using the human acute monocytic leukemia cell line THP-1 , we established in vitro models of macrophages and foam cells to simulate the atherosclerotic microenvironment . Functional studies were conducted using siRNA-mediated knockdown , real-time PCR , Western blotting , and immunofluorescence imaging . Our results showed that ATP8B2 was significantly down-regulated in atherosclerotic foam cells . The downregulation of ATP8B2 led to impaired lysosomal membrane fusion , evidenced by an increase in CD63-positive compartments without a change in CD63 protein levels . Additionally , under starvation conditions , there was a significant accumulation of autophagosomes , indicating a defect in the autophagy-lysosomal pathway . CONCLUSIONS : This study , for the first time , demonstrates that the downregulation of ATP8B2 exacerbates atherosclerosis by disrupting lysosomal membrane fusion , leading to lipid accumulation and foam cell formation . These findings provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and suggest that ATP8B2 could be a potential therapeutic target for the prevention or treatment of this disease .
Fungi represent a broad and evolutionarily unique group within the eukaryotic domain , characterized by extensive ecological adaptability and metabolic versatility . Their inherent biological intricacy is evident in the diverse and dynamic relationships they establish with various hosts and environmental niches . Notably , fungi are integral to disease processes and a wide array of biotechnological innovations , highlighting their significance in medical , agricultural , and industrial domains . Recent advances in genetic engineering have revolutionized fungal research , with CRISPR/Cas emerging as the most potent and versatile genome editing platform . This technology enables precise manipulation of fungal genomes , from silencing efflux pump genes in Candida albicans ( enhancing antifungal susceptibility ) to targeting virulence-associated sirtuins in Aspergillus fumigatus ( attenuating pathogenicity ) . Its applications span gene overexpression , multiplexed mutagenesis , and secondary metabolite induction , proving transformative for disease management and biotechnological innovation . CRISPR/Cas9 ' s advantages-unmatched precision , cost-effectiveness , and therapeutic potential-are tempered by challenges like off-target effects , ethical dilemmas , and regulatory gaps . Integrating nanoparticle delivery systems and multi-omics approaches may overcome technical barriers , but responsible innovation requires addressing these limitations . CRISPR-driven fungal genome editing promises to redefine solutions for drug-resistant infections , sustainable bioproduction , and beyond as the field evolves . In conclusion , genome editing technologies have enhanced our capacity to dissect fungal biology and expanded fungi ' s practical applications across various scientific and industrial domains . Continued innovation in this field promises to unlock the vast potential of fungal systems further , enabling more profound understanding and transformative biotechnological progress .
Prioritizing water management and maintaining its quality for as long as possible , while lowering related stressors , are crucial for sustainable aquaculture . To achieve this equilibrium , enriched aquafeed with natural immunostimulants is essential to success . In this trend , 6 weeks feeding trial was conducted to evaluate the effects of Ceratonia siliqua syrup ( CSS ) and Zingiber officinale powder ( ZOP ) in Nile tilapia ( Oreochromis niloticus ) reared under a zero-water exchange . The immune-antioxidant , growth , physiological responses , and the antioxidant/inflammatory pathways-associated genes as well as ammonia tolerance were evaluated . Fish ( weighing 85 +/- 42 g ) were randomly housed into six groups ( n = 30 fish/group ; ten fish/replicate ; three replicates/group ) . The control group was fed a basal diet without any additives . The second ( CSS25 ) group was fed a diet supplemented with 25% CSS . The third ( ZOP5 ) and fourth ( ZOP1 ) groups were fed diets supplemented with 5 and 1% ZOP . The fifth ( CSS25 + ZOP5 ) and sixth ( CSS25 + ZOP1 ) groups were fed diets supplemented with 25% CSS and 5 or 1% ZOP . All treatments were kept without water exchange for 6 weeks . Findings revealed the most notable improvement ( P < 05 ) in growth rate ( final body weight and specific growth rate ) and survival rate in fish fed with dietary ZOP and CSS25 + ZOP5 diets . Hepato-renal markers ( alanine and aspartate aminotransferases , urea , glucose , and cortisol ) and lipid peroxides ( malonaldehyde ) were declined by CSS and/or ZOP diets . Immuno-antioxidants ( immunoglobulin M , lysozyme , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and reduced glutathione ) were significantly boosted ( P < 05 ) in the ZOP1 and CSS25 + ZOP5 groups . In addition , CSS and/or ZOP diets markedly ( P < 05 ) upregulated antioxidant-linked genes ( SOD and glutathione peroxidase ) and downregulated the stress gene ( heat shock protein 70 ) and pro-inflammatory cytokines ( interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ) . In addition , CSS and/or ZOP diets decreased fish mortality during ammonia stress . The ZOP1 diet was significantly reported of having the best outcomes ( P < 05 ) throughout the measured indices . Overall , our findings demonstrate that dietary ZOP and CSS at the optimum doses can improve growth , immune response , and physiological functions of O . niloticus reared in stressful conditions ( unchanged water ) for the sustainable aquaculture industry .
The most efficient lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) for gene therapeutics rely on specific lipids that protect the oligonucleotide cargo and aid cellular uptake and subsequent endosomal escape . Yet , the efficacy of current state-of-the-art LNP formulations remains low , a few percent at best . A deeper understanding of how LNP cargo , lipid composition , stoichiometry , size , structure , and pH-induced conformational changes influence their efficiency is therefore necessary for improved design . Given the variability of these properties , preferred screening methods should offer single-particle-resolved multiparametric characterization . In this work , we employ combined surface-sensitive fluorescence and label-free scattering microscopy with single LNP resolution , which when integrated with microfluidics for liquid exchange between media of varying refractive index , enables quantification of LNP size , refractive index , and cargo content . We investigate two LNP formulations that , while similar in size and mRNA content , exhibit differences in functional mRNA delivery . Correlating size with the content of Cy5-labeled mRNA revealed that the cargo scaled with LNP volume for both types of LNPs , while the refractive index varied marginally across LNP size . While this multiparametric fingerprinting alone could not distinguish the two LNP formulations , we use the same experimental platform to show that their difference in fusogenicity to a supporting lipid bilayer under early endosomal conditions ( drop in pH from 4 to 0 ) correlates with observed differences in in vitro cellular data . This highlights a limitation of the current state-of-the-art toolbox for in situ LNP characterization , which generally focuses on structural properties of suspended LNPs , which may not adequately capture functional performance . FAU - Sjoberg , Mattias
A short-rod-shaped , obligate anaerobic , Gram-stain-positive bacterium isolated from the faeces of a pig was designated as the strain YH-ols2221 ( T ) . The analysis of the 16S rRNA gene sequence revealed that the isolate was most closely related to Olsenella phocaeensis DSM 103159 ( T ) , Olsenella urininfantis KCTC 25755 ( T ) and Olsenella absiana KCTC 25800 ( T ) with 6-7% similarities . The multi-locus sequence tree revealed that the isolate formed a cluster adjacent to O . absiana KCTC 25800 ( T ) . The average nucleotide identity and the digital DNA-DNA hybridization values for the isolate and the most closely related strains were 7-1% and 9-0% , respectively . The main fatty acids identified were C ( 14 : 0 ) , C ( 16 : 0 ) DMA and C ( 18 : 0 ) omega9c DMA . The cell wall contained the meso-diaminopimelic acid-based peptidoglycan . The end products of the fermentation were lactic acid and acetic acid . Given the chemotaxonomic , phenotypic and phylogenetic properties , YH-ols2221 ( T ) ( =KCTC 25801 ( T ) =NBRC 116679 ( T ) ) represents a novel taxon . The name Olsenella kribbiana sp . nov . was proposed . FAU - Bai , Lu
The purpose of this study is to investigate the impact of a high-salt diet ( HSD ) , which is commonly found in Western countries , on the progression of glioma . Our research shows that the alterations in gut microbiota caused by an HSD facilitated the development of glioma . Mice fed an HSD have elevated levels of intestinal propionate , which accelerated the growth of glioma cells . We also find that propionate supplementation enhanced the response of glioma cells to low oxygen levels . Moreover , we identify a link between TGF-beta signaling , response to low oxygen levels , and invasion-related pathways . Propionate treatment increases the expression of HIF-1alpha , leading to an increase in TGF-beta1 production . Additionally , propionate treatment promotes glioma cell invasion through TGF-beta signaling . Our findings suggest that an HSD-induced increase in propionate plays a crucial role in glioma progression by facilitating invasion through the hypoxic response and TGF-beta signaling pathways , thereby establishing a significant connection between gut microbiota and the progression of glioma .
Two tetrasubstituted imidazoles , denoted as TSIm-1 and TSIm-2 , with flexible and rigid cores , respectively , displayed remarkable photophysical properties as well as aggregation-induced emission . TSIm-1 exhibited trace water detection in THF with an LOD of 03 wt% . Importantly , TSIm-1 and TSIm-2 both efficiently targeted lipid droplets ( LDs ) with high specificity in HeLa cells . These probes were further applied to monitor LD growth induced by oleic-acid-mediated lipid accumulation . FAU - Zafar , Mohammad Masood
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) can trigger a series of complex physiological responses , with iron overload and neuronal ferroptosis playing particularly pivotal roles . These processes exacerbate secondary brain injury and significantly deteriorate neurological function . To address this challenge , this study developed an innovative local drug delivery strategy : an injectable , post-traumatic microenvironment-responsive hydrogel . The hydrogel , composed of tannic acid ( TA ) and quaternized chitosan ( QCS ) , is designed to alleviate neurological deficits secondary brain injury following TBI through its anti-ferroptosis mechanism . In vitro , a ferroptosis model was established using HT22 cells treated with the ferroptosis inducer RSL-3 , demonstrating the hydrogel ' s antioxidant capacity in the TBI-like conditions . The results showed that the hydrogel significantly restored cell viability , reversed iron accumulation , alleviated lipid peroxidation , and restored mitochondrial function . Further in vivo experiments in the TBI model showed that the TA/QCS hydrogel not only effectively inhibited neuronal degeneration , reduced iron accumulation , and lipid peroxidation but also restored mitochondrial function in neurons . Additionally , the hydrogel significantly attenuated neuroinflammation by inhibiting the activation of microglia and astrocytes , thereby facilitating neurological recovery after TBI . This study offers novel insights into TBI management strategies aimed at preventing the progression of a secondary injury . FAU - Xu , Jing
Novel strategies to counter multidrug-resistant pathogens such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus are urgently required . The antimicrobial properties of fatty acids ( FAs ) have long been recognized and offer significant promise as viable alternatives to , or potentiators of , conventional antibiotics . In this review , we examine the interplay between FAs and S . aureus , specifically detailing the underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for FA-mediated inhibition and the counteracting staphylococcal systems evolved to withstand FA onslaught . Finally , we present an update on the recent therapeutic FA applications to combat S . aureus infection , either as a monotherapy or in combination with antibiotics or host-derived antimicrobial peptides . Given the frequency of interaction between FAs and S . aureus during host colonization and infection , understanding FA mode of action and deciphering S . aureus FA resistance strategies are central in rationally designing future anti-staphylococcal FAs and FA-combination therapies . FAU - Douglas , Edward J A
Mangiferin ( MAN ) , a natural C-glycosylxanthone , is recognized for its health-promoting effects in traditional medicinal preparations . However , its poor bioavailability and limited intestinal permeability restrict its direct biological activity in vivo . Previous studies have suggested a potential bacterial breakdown of MAN into norathyriol ( NOR ) , an aglycone with significantly higher bioavailability and absorption . Yet , the prevalence of MAN-metabolizing microbes , the presence of MAN or NOR within the gut microbial community , and their effects on the composition and metabolic activity of the gut microbiome remain unclear . In this study , fecal samples from healthy adult volunteers treated with MAN revealed its conversion to NOR , with interindividual variation attributed to the uncultured bacterial strain CAKRHR01 sp While MAN had minimal impact on microbial composition and metabolic activity , NOR treatment significantly increased pH , reduced overall bacterial cell counts , and selectively suppressed short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria , including Faecalibacterium prausnitzii as well as urate consumers , such as Enterocloster bolteae . These findings underscore the potential of NOR to modulate gut microbial activity and highlight the importance of understanding microbiome-mediated metabolism when assessing the health implications of phytochemicals . FAU - Bunt , Daan
Iron is essential for life and plays a key role in multiple fundamental cellular functions . The brain has the highest rate of energy consumption , and within the brain , oligodendrocytes have the highest level of oxidative metabolism per volume . Oligodendrocytes also stain the strongest for iron . The high requirement for iron is related to an oligodendrocyte ' s primary function to produce the myelin sheath , which requires iron as a cofactor . In addition to the high-energy demands that accompany the production of such dense and extensive membranous sheaths , iron is also required for lipid synthesis . Although the involvement of iron in oligodendrocyte functioning is clear , how iron is specifically acquired and utilized by oligodendrocytes is not completely understood . The purpose of this review is to provide a complete and thorough overview of the role of iron in oligodendrocytes . Here , we discuss in detail what is currently known about key iron transport proteins that participate in the balance of iron in oligodendrocytes . Understanding how oligodendrocytes utilize iron is beneficial in understanding dysmyelinating diseases , and the knowledge could be utilized to develop treatment options .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relationship between carotid plaque stability characteristics and ischemic stroke risk using computed tomography angiography ( CTA ) , with a focus on differences between embolic stroke of undetermined source ( ESUS ) and non-ESUS cases . METHODS : This retrospective study included 173 patients with carotid plaques who underwent extracranial carotid CTA . Patients were categorized into stroke and non-stroke groups , with the stroke group further divided into ESUS and non-ESUS subgroups . Plaque features including stenosis severity , plaque type , ulceration , intraplaque hemorrhage ( IPH ) , and lipid-rich necrotic core ( LRNC ) were assessed . Clinical information was also collected to examine the connection between carotid plaque characteristics and stroke risk . RESULTS : Compared to the non-stroke group , the stroke group had a higher proportion of male patients , elevated total cholesterol levels , greater stenosis severity , along with higher frequencies of plaque ulceration , calcification , IPH , and LRNC . Also , the maximum soft and total plaque thickness were greater , while maximum hard plaque thickness was lower . Multivariate logistic regression identified male gender , stenosis severity , LRNC , and maximum soft plaque thickness as independent risk factors . Among stroke patients , the ESUS group exhibited a higher prevalence of non-stenotic plaques ( stenosis <50% ) , along with significantly increased IPH , plaque calcification , and adventitial calcification , compared to the non-ESUS group . CONCLUSION : CTA-based assessment of carotid plaque features enables effective evaluation of stroke risk . Notably , vulnerable plaques with non-severe stenosis may contribute to the pathogenesis of ESUS , underscoring the need for plaque composition analysis beyond luminal narrowing . FAU - Guo , Hong
BACKGROUND : One of the most lethal forms of cancer that impacts women worldwide is breast cancer ( BC ) . The treatment results are influenced by multiple factors , such as the phase of diagnosis , hereditary and hormonal influences , medication resistance , and metastases . Ailanthus Excelsa ( AE ) crude extract is rich in antioxidants and possesses potent anticancer properties , as demonstrated in tests on MCF-7 cells . Additionally , both lavender oil ( LO ) and tea tree oil ( TTO ) have potential cytotoxicity against cancer . OBJECTIVES : The purpose of this study was to boost the potency and solubility of AE against breast cancer via its loading in lipidic nanocarriers ( LNPs ) whose structure is based on a mixture of LO and TTO . METHODS : The particle size , stability , and zeta potential of AE-loaded LNPs were examined over 6 months , and the measurements confirmed the good stability of the newly developed AE-LNPs . RESULTS : The AE-LNPs have demonstrated a stronger anticancer impact compared to free AE and plain LNPs , where IC values were found to be 88 +/- 09 , 09 +/- 13 , and 49 +/- 67microg/ml for plain NPs , free AE , and AE-LNPs , respectively . Furthermore , the AE-LNPs exhibited more pronounced anticancer effects in the Ehrlich ascites in-vivo tumor model , accompanied by significant antiproliferative and antioxidant properties . The immunohistochemical analysis of BCL-2 in tumor tissue validated the apoptotic activity of AE-LNPs . CONCLUSION : This study is the first to examine the formulation of the newly developed AE-loaded LNPs , demonstrating their efficacy in producing anti-proliferative effects and their considerable promise for BC treatment . FAU - Ibrahim , Neama
The sensitivity of physiological and metabolic processes in subtropical trees to temperature remains uncertain , limiting our ability to predict how subtropical forests will acclimate to future climates . In particular , our understanding of gas exchange and metabolic activity responses to warming and heat shocks is quite limited . Here , we exposed Pinus massoniana seedlings to three daytime growth temperatures ( 25 degrees C , 3 degrees C , and 35 degrees C ) for 65 days , followed by a heat shock up to 40 degrees C , then immediately reduced to 25 degrees C , to investigate physiological and metabolic responses . The optimal temperature of photosynthesis ( T ( optA ) ) did not exhibit a significant shift with warming . Metabolism acclimated to rising growth temperature , resulting in enriched levels of key metabolites ( tryptophan , indole , indoleacetate , and o-Phospho-L-serine ) and key pathways ( tryptophan metabolism ) . At 25 degrees C , leaf dark respiration ( R ( d ) ) decreased in warm-grown seedlings . At 40 degrees C ( heat shock period ) , warming reduced R ( d ) , accumulated flavonoid metabolites , and upregulated tryptophan metabolism . After recovery to 25 degrees C , higher growth temperatures decreased the net photosynthetic rate ( A ( sat ) ) , accumulated prenol lipid metabolites , and led to enrichment in tryptophan metabolism , flavone , and flavonol biosynthesis pathways . Our findings suggest that photosynthesis in P . massoniana seedlings exhibits limited thermal acclimation , while respiration and metabolism can acclimate under short-term warming . However , acclimation to warming altered both physiological and metabolic responses to heat shock and during the subsequent recovery phase in seedlings .
BACKGROUND : Guidelines emphasize using atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) risk prediction models for treatment decisions , but risk of cognitive impairment is an equally important concern in older adults . Current ASCVD risk prediction models were derived in younger adults and do not include holistic measures of health or predict cognitive impairment . METHODS : We utilized data from the Framingham , Framingham Offspring , CHS ( Cardiovascular Health Study ) , and ARIC ( Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities ) cohorts to derive and validate 2 Selective Functional Prediction models to estimate an older person ' s ( aged >/=75 years ) risk within 5 years of developing incident : cognitive impairment ; and ASCVD , while accounting for the competing risk of death . Variable selection , including functional status , was based on the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator method . The cognitive impairment ( N=3466 ) and ASCVD ( N=4403 ) model populations were split into derivation and validation cohorts with external validation , then performed in MESA ( Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis ) . RESULTS : In the derivation and external validation cohorts ( median age , 79 years ) , 579 ( 7% ) and 67 ( 3% ) participants developed incident cognitive impairment , respectively ; 748 ( 0% ) and 80 ( 4% ) , respectively , experienced an ASCVD event . The cognitive impairment model ( baseline Mini-Mental State Examination ( MMSE ) , atrial fibrillation , antidepressant use , mobility impairment , and dependence for grocery shopping ) had good discrimination in the internal and external validation cohorts ( C index 75 and 73 , respectively ) . The ASCVD model ( employment status , MMSE , aspirin , lipid-lowering medications , blood pressure medications , systolic blood pressure , general health status , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , triglycerides , creatinine , and mobility impairment ) had satisfactory discrimination ( C index 67 ) on internal validation and outperformed the pooled cohort equations , but had modest discrimination ( C index 59 ) on external validation . Although both models were well calibrated in the internal validation cohorts , they overpredicted risk in the external validation cohort . CONCLUSIONS : Accurate prediction of an older person ' s risk of developing cognitive impairment is possible , but predicting future ASCVD events remains more challenging . FAU - Nanna , Michael G
BACKGROUND : Although the impact of ambient air pollution on mortality in cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases is well documented , its specific link to pulmonary arterial hypertension remains unclear . This study investigated the association between ambient particulate matter ( PM ) exposure and all-cause death or lung transplantation , as well as pulmonary hemodynamics in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension . METHODS : This retrospective cohort study included 1327 participants with pulmonary arterial hypertension who underwent right heart catheterization ( RHC ) . Ambient PM ( 5 ) and PM levels were estimated using the China High Air Pollutants data set , with a 3-year average exposure before diagnosis as the primary exposure metric . All-cause death or lung transplantation was the primary end point . Cox proportional hazard models assessed the association between PM exposure and primary outcomes , and generalized linear models evaluated pulmonary hemodynamics . Mediation analysis explored potential mediating factors . RESULTS : The median age of the participants was 0 years , with 2% being women . Median PM ( 5 ) and PM levels were 0 [6-1] and 0 [4-3] mug/m , respectively . Over a median follow-up of 1 years , 149 patients died or underwent lung transplantation . Each 10 mug/m increase in PM ( 5 ) and PM was associated with a 5% and 9% increased risk of primary outcomes , respectively . PM exposure was linked to worsened pulmonary hemodynamics , such as pulmonary vascular resistance and cardiac index . Mediation analysis suggested lipid metabolism , uric acid , and lymphocytes may partially mediate these effects . CONCLUSIONS : Long-term PM ( 5 ) and PM exposure is not only associated with increased risk of death or lung transplantation in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension but also affects disease severity and pulmonary hemodynamics . FAU - Zhang , Sicheng
BACKGROUND : The BEST-CLI ( Best Endovascular Versus Best Surgical Therapy in Patients With Critical Limb Ischemia ) trial tested the optimal initial revascularization strategy in patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia . Little is known about the prognostic relevance of Lp ( a ) ( lipoprotein[a] ) and its modification by renal function in patients with chronic limb-threatening ischemia . We investigated the relationship between Lp ( a ) and prespecified cardiovascular outcomes . METHODS : A subgroup of patients from the BEST-CLI trial ( as part of the TIDE [The Impact of Diabetes on Revascularization] study ) underwent blinded , core-laboratory assessment of Lp ( a ) levels and were included in this analysis . The primary end point was major adverse limb events or death from any cause . Secondary end points were the components of the primary end point , major amputation , major reintervention , and major adverse cardiac events ( myocardial infarction , ischemic stroke , or death from any cause ) . The association of Lp ( a ) with end points was assessed using Cox proportional hazard models adjusting for traditional risk factors and then also for renal function and statin use , which increase Lp ( a ) levels . RESULTS : A total of 189 patients ( median [interquartile range] age 3 [6-1] years ) were included and followed for a median of 1 ( 2-9 ) years . Median Lp ( a ) for the total study population was 3 ( 4-8 ) mg/dL , and 62 ( 8% ) patients had elevated values ( >/=50 mg/dL ) . The 1-year event rate of the primary outcome was 3 ( 95% CI , 7-8 ) per 100 person-years . There was no association between Lp ( a ) and the primary outcome ( hazard ratio [HR] , 00 [95% CI , 99-00] ; P=186 ) . In secondary analyses controlling for renal function , elevated Lp ( a ) was associated with increased risk for all-cause death ( HR , 03 [95% CI , 01-05] ; P=009 ) . Results were similar regardless of peripheral revascularization strategy . CONCLUSIONS : Elevated Lp ( a ) level was not associated with major adverse limb events or death but was associated with all-cause death after controlling for renal function . Lp ( a ) may be an important therapeutic target in the patient population with high-risk chronic limb-threatening ischemia . REGISTRATION : https : //clinicaltrials . gov/study/NCT03085524 ; Unique identifier : NCT FAU - Sullivan , Alexander E
Macrophages are central to innate immunity and are routinely used in vitro to examine molecular mechanisms contributing to innate immune signaling . However , there is a lack of consensus within the field for optimal in vitro culturing methods , and it is not well understood whether differences in culture conditions produce incongruent outcomes . Here , we compared the effects of commonly used culture medium compositions on TLR4-mediated pro-inflammatory activity in primary human monocyte-derived macrophages ( hMDM ) isolated from healthy blood donors . hMDM were cultured in fetal bovine serum ( FBS ) -containing or FBS-free conditions in either DMEM , RPMI , or in Macrophage-Serum Free Medium ( M-SFM ) . LPS-mediated immune response was measured through NF-kappaB activation and cytokine and chemokine secretion , which were muted in M-SFM cultures compared to DMEM and RPMI cultures . FBS supplementation increased total cytokine secretion in response to LPS but also showed higher baseline secretion , suggesting a pro-inflammatory phenotype . Moreover , M-SFM cultures exhibited less phagocytosis compared to DMEM and RPMI cultures . Morphologic analysis of unstimulated hMDM revealed the highest cell area and length-to-width ratio in M-SFM compared to DMEM or RPMI cultures . FBS-free and M-SFM conditions produced distinct transcriptional profiles compared to media supplemented with FBS , most notably in cell cycle pathways and lipid homeostasis , respectively . Overall , DMEM and RPMI produce comparable morphologic and functional results , albeit with some small differences , while M-SFM produces a muted inflammatory response in macrophages . These data demonstrate that in vitro microenvironment drives differential inflammatory outcomes in human macrophages and is a critical component of experimental design in this cell type .
Bladder cancer ( BCa ) is a highly invasive tumor with few successful therapies , and its unfavorable prognosis mainly stems from late diagnosis and resistance to treatment . Ferroptosis is a type of non-apoptotic cell death characterized by iron-dependent regulated necrosis due to extensive lipid peroxidation . Glycolysis is fundamental to cancer cell metabolism , with cancer cells developing various strategies to enhance this process . In this study , we combined ferroptosis and glycolysis gene sets , two biological processes closely related to tumorigenesis and development , and obtained ferroptosis and glycolysis-related gene sets ( FGRGs ) . By leveraging both single-cell and bulk transcriptome data from BCa , we have investigated the presence and role of FGRGs in the onset and progression of BCa through various approaches . Using machine learning algorithms , we identified a feature gene set consisting of 13 genes in the TCGA data set to predict the prognosis of BCa and verified it in the GEO data set . After that , we explored FGRGs in depth using a variety of bioinformatics analyses , such as mutational landscape analysis , functional enrichment analysis , immune infiltration analysis , FGRGs-associated risk and clinical characterization , and drug susceptibility analysis . Finally , we validated the function of the core gene chondroitin polymerizing factor 2 ( CHPF2 ) using CCK-8 , clone formation , transwell , and wound healing assays . Our research innovatively combines ferroptosis with glycolytic genes and applies it as an independent prognostic factor in the study of BCa . It reveals new characteristic genes and therapeutic targets that can predict the prognosis of BCa patients and lays a foundation for the study of the occurrence and development mechanism of BCa and targeted data strategies .
Microphysiological systems , such as multicellular spheroids , hold great promise for drug screening experiments . Spheroids may be dosed statically , where the drug is introduced to the growing chamber at one time point , or dynamically , where the drug is introduced via a fluidic component . Dynamic dosing can generate pharmacokinetic curves that more closely represent those seen in vivo than static dosing . In this work , we demonstrate the dynamic dosing of colorectal cancer spheroids in a 3D printed fluidic device with liposomal doxorubicin . Spheroids are valuable models to evaluate dynamic dosing , as they recapitulate the nutrient , oxygen , and pH gradients of solid tumors . Spheroids feature distinct cellular populations with a necrotic core , quiescent middle layer , and proliferative outer layer . Drug and liposome penetration are tracked with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging ( MALDI MSI ) and fluorescence imaging , showing that liposomal doxorubicin is stable to fluidic dosing and penetrates spheroids after 48 h . To provide a comprehensive pharmacodynamic profile of the distinct cellular regions within spheroids , we employ spatially stable isotopic labeling by amino acids in cell culture ( spatial SILAC ) proteomics to isotopically label the core and outer layers . Proteomic analysis reveals 714 upregulated proteins in the core upon treatment and 30 in the outer layers , as well as 103 downregulated proteins in the core and 1276 in the outer layers . Spatial SILAC uncovers the differential regulation of proteins associated with glycolysis , the TCA cycle , and lipid synthesis upon drug treatment between the spheroid core and outer layers . Using MALDI MSI and spatial SILAC proteomics , we interrogate the effects of dynamic dosing with liposomal doxorubicin on spheroid regions that would be overlooked by bulk analysis . FAU - Lopez , Arbil
Honey bees ( Apis mellifera L . ) are of undeniable value to agriculture . However , increased mortality of honey bees , mostly due to winter losses associated with parasites and pathogens , have put strain on the apiculture industry . Advancing our knowledge of honey bee viruses and their interactions within the colony environment is vital in mitigating their effect on honey bee health . Our study examined virus sequences detected on beeswax sampled from empty colonies which died during the previous winter . Based on a cage study using virus-containing bees , we confirmed that the introduction of BQCV sequences to wax foundation was possible through workers walking on , and contacting , comb surfaces ( worker traffic ) . Furthermore , we found that BQCV may aerosolize within an incubator to contaminate wax at detectable levels among independent cages . A second cage study explored the potential effects of virus aerosolization on transmission between groups of adult worker bees within cages , having no direct contact . This experiment did not support aerosol transmission between groups of bees in confined spaces . Further work on waxborne virus transmission within colony environments , and potential effects of aerosolization under a wider array of conditions , is crucial to broadening our knowledge of honey bee virus transmission . Our work also highlights potential dangers for beekeepers re-using equipment from dead colonies .
Lipid membrane deformations have been predicted to lead to indirect forces between the objects that induce these deformations . Recent experimental measurements have found an attractive interaction between spherical particles that all induce a deformation towards the inside of a giant unilamellar vesicle . Here , we complement these experimental observations by investigating the interactions between deformations pointing in opposite directions with respect to the membrane normal vector . This is experimentally realized by a particle deforming the membrane towards the inside of the GUV and pulling a membrane tube towards the outside of the membrane . Particles completely wrapped by the membrane are repelled from the tube with a strength of 3 k ( B ) T at a distance of 5 mum . However , particles that strongly curve the membrane by adhering only to a patch of about 50% of its surface area are attracted to the center of the tube with a strength of -3 k ( B ) T at a minimum distance of about 1 mum . We find that such Janus particles also experience attractive interactions when both deforming the membrane in the same way . These quantitative experimental observations provide new insights into interactions between oppositely membrane deforming objects , important for cooperative protein assembly at or interactions of microplastics with cell membranes . FAU - Azadbakht , Ali
PURPOSE OF REVIEW : The use of androgenic anabolic steroids ( AAS ) is rising , particularly among recreational athletes . This review addresses growing concerns about the underrecognized cardiovascular and multiorgan consequences of chronic AAS exposure with a focus on noncompetitive populations . RECENT FINDINGS : It is well documented that AAS use enhances muscle mass and strength , but at the cost of multisystem toxicity including endocrine disruption , hepatotoxicity , and mood disorders . Emerging evidence highlights the profound cardiovascular impact of AAS use , including elevated blood pressure , adverse lipid profiles , accelerated atherosclerosis , subclinical cardiomyopathy , and increased risk of myocardial infarction and sudden cardiac death . Structural and functional cardiac abnormalities such as left ventricular hypertrophy , ventricular dysfunction , and arterial stiffness have been reported , with some changes persisting after cessation . SUMMARY : AAS use carries multisystem risks with evidence for adverse cardiovascular remodeling and atherogenesis . Clinicians caring for athletes using AAS should recognize patterns of AAS use and provide risk stratification , monitoring , and tapering strategies . Future research should prioritize long-term outcomes , sex-specific effects , and multidisciplinary approaches to care .
The aim of this study was to compare immune response against SARS-CoV-2 in Balb/C mice when self-amplifying RNA lipid nanoparticles ( saRNA LNPs ) combined with TLR4 Agonist ( monophosphoryl lipid A ) as the adjuvant 1 and TLR9 Agonist ( CpG ) as the adjuvant Here , we found that the size distribution of saRNA LNPs was 88-165 nm with a mean size of 126 nm . Although TLR4 Agonist ( adjuvant 1 ) and TLR9 Agonist ( adjuvant 2 ) could increase the expression of S-protein in HEK293T/17 cells compared with saRNA LNPs alone , the combination of both adjuvants had a significant effect on the expression of the S-protein . Moreover , combining TLR4 Agonist ( adjuvant 1 ) and TLR9 Agonist ( adjuvant 2 ) increased the antibody ( IgG and IgA ) titer . Here , the ratio of IgG2a/IgG1 showed a T helper type 1-biased response . ELISpot test showed the mice vaccinated with saRNA LNPs+ TLR4 Agonist and TLR9 Agonist had significantly more secreting cells compared with other vaccinated mice ( p < 05 ) . The secretion of interleukin ( IL ) -4 and interferons ( IFN ) -gamma by re-stimulated splenocytes confirmed these data . Significant differences in concentration of IL-4 and IFN-gamma produced by activated splenocytes were also seen in the mice vaccinated with saRNA LNPs+ TLR4 Agonist and microparticles compared with other groups ( p < 05 ) . The highest quantity of S-protein was detected in the blood , followed by the small intestine and spleen . The interesting thing was that no significant difference was seen between the amount of S-protein induced by different formulations and the type of adjuvant did not affect the biodistribution . FAU - Keikha , Reza
27-Hydroxycholesterol ( 27HC ) , a cholesterol metabolite , functions both as a selective oestrogen receptor ( ER ) modulator and a ligand for liver X receptors ( LXRs ) . The discovery of 27HC involvement in carcinogenesis has unveiled new research avenues , yet its precise role remains controversial and context-dependent . In this review , we provide an overview of the biosynthesis and metabolism of 27HC and explore its cancer-associated signalling , with a particular focus on ER- and LXR-mediated pathways . Given the tissue-specific dual role of 27HC , we discuss its differential impact across various cancer types . Furthermore , we sort out 27HC-contributed drug resistance mechanisms from the perspectives of drug efflux , cellular proliferation , apoptosis , epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , antioxidant defence , epigenetic modification , and metabolic reprogramming . Finally , we highlight the chemical inhibitors to mitigate 27HC-driven cancer progression and drug resistance . This review offers an updated role of 27HC in cancer biology , setting the stage for future research and the development of targeted therapeutics . FAU - Hou , Yaxin
BACKGROUND : The aims of this study were to evaluate sigmaR ( sigma-2 receptor ) /TMEM97 ( transmembrane protein 97 ) expression in atherosclerotic plaques , and assess the feasibility of in vivo atherosclerotic plaques imaging using the sigmaR/TMEM97 targeting probe 1- ( 4- ( 5 , 6-dimethoxyisoindolin-2-yl ) butyl ) -3- ( 2-[18F]fluoroethyl ) -1 , 3-dihydro-2H-benzo[d]imidazol-2-one ( [F]SYB-NF ) developed in our laboratory . METHODS : Hematoxylin and eosin and immunohistochemical staining were performed on both human coronary endarterectomy specimens and mouse samples . The expression of sigmaR/TMEM97 in RAW7 cells incubated with ox-LDL ( oxidized low-density lipoprotein ) was analyzed using western blot analysis . Positron emission tomography imaging with [F]SYB-NF , [F]NaF , and [F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose was conducted in wide-type C57BL/6 and ApoE ( -/- ) mice . Specific binding was evaluated by coinjecting [F]SYB-NF with the sigmaR/TMEM97 antagonist CM Autoradiography and Oil Red O staining were performed on harvested aortas and corresponding sections . RESULTS : Staining results demonstrated significant upregulation of sigmaR/TMEM97 expression during both early plaque formation and atherosclerosis progression . Western blot analysis indicated that incubation of macrophages with ox-LDL led to increased sigmaR/TMEM97 expression . [F]SYB-NF specifically accumulated in the aortic arch of ApoE ( - ) ( /- ) mice . Treatment with CM398 significantly reduced the standardized uptake value in the aortic arch of ApoE ( - ) ( /- ) mice . [F]SYB-NF exhibited a higher standardized uptake value in the aortic arch ( 67+/-09 versus 51+/-07 ) and higher aortic arch-to-heart ratio ( 58 versus 56 ) in ApoE ( - ) ( /- ) mice compared with [F]fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose , and a higher aortic arch-to-bone ratio ( 24 versus 44 ) compared with [F]NaF . Autoradiography analysis revealed a strong correlation between the positive area in Oil Red O staining and autoradiography ( Pearson correlation coefficient=993 ; P=001 ) , further supporting the association between elevated sigmaR/TMEM97 expression and plaque formation . CONCLUSIONS : sigmaR/TMEM97 may serve as a potential biomarker for atherosclerotic plaques , and sigmaR/TMEM97 positron emission tomography imaging may be used to monitor plaque formation and progression , as well as the efficacy of emerging therapeutic strategies for atherosclerotic plaques . FAU - Mou , Tiantian
This brief review describes recent advances in understanding metabolic control of vascular smooth muscle cells , highlighting the identification of KCNQ5 ( KV5 subfamily of voltage-gated K ( + ) channels ) as a crucial component . KCNQ5 has been found to play a key role in enabling the convergence of input signals from the perivascular adipose tissue , which include numerous oxylipins . These findings are significant because they shed light on the mechanisms by which vascular smooth muscle cells regulate vascular tone and blood pressure . By focusing on the interaction between KCNQ5 and perivascular adipose tissue , research has uncovered a complex pathway that allows for the modulation of vascular responses through a variety of lipid-derived signaling molecules . This discovery not only provides deeper insight into the cellular processes affecting vascular function but also opens up potential new avenues for therapeutic interventions in vascular diseases . The identification of KCNQ5 as a pivotal mediator in these processes is a critical step forward in cardiovascular research , offering new perspectives on how vascular health can be maintained and how various diseases might be targeted more effectively . FAU - Gollasch , Maik
Ozonated olive oils are recognized for their remarkable antimicrobial properties . The reaction between ozone ( O ) and unsaturated fatty acids leads to the formation of bactericidal compounds ( ozonides , aldehydes , and peroxides ) with valuable applications . This study represents the first comprehensive investigation into the effects of a wide range of ozone exposure durations ( from 0 to 48 h ) on the physicochemical properties and antimicrobial activity of both virgin olive oil ( VOO ) and pomace olive oil ( POO ) , along with a thorough statistical analysis of the correlation between ozone dose and these parameters . The physicochemical indicators , including fatty acid methyl ester ( FAME ) composition , peroxide index , acidity index , iodine value , and viscosity , were measured at ozonation doses ranging from 0 to 1 mol O . Significant changes were observed with increasing ozonation time , including a 69% and 46% reduction in oleic acid content , as well as increased peroxide values of 2 mEq O/kg and 8 mEq O/kg for VOO and POO , respectively . Antimicrobial activity was evaluated against Escherichia coli ( STCC 45 ) , Pseudomonas aeruginosa ( STCC 109 ) , and Staphylococcus aureus ( STCC 239 ) , with the highest inhibition observed against S . aureus ( 68 mm with POO at 48 h and 1 mol O ) . PCA analysis identified three groups : low ozone doses ( 0-08 mol O ) associated with higher iodine values ; intermediate doses ( 16-5 mol O ) linked to increased peroxide , acidity , viscosity , and antimicrobial activity ; while high doses ( 1 mol O ) provided no further benefits , suggesting that moderate doses are sufficient for effective antimicrobial activity . These findings highlight the potential of ozonated olive oils for novel applications in the food industry .
Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles ( T-EVs ) are small , membrane-bound particles secreted by cancer cells into the extracellular environment . These vesicles carry tumor-specific molecules , making them promising candidates as biomarkers for cancer diagnosis and monitoring . Among the various molecular components of T-EVs , such as nucleic acids and lipids , proteins stand out due to their unique characteristics and functional significance in cancer progression , diagnosis , and therapy . However , the heterogeneity of T-EVs poses a significant challenge to their effective utilization . Herein , we developed an orthogonal barcoding enabled smart nanodevice for the isolation of T-EVs and proteomic profiling . The T-EVs subpopulations were recognized from complex clinical samples , specifically through an orthogonal labeling barcode , which was created using two allosteric aptamers against the exosomal marker CD63 and the tumor marker EpCAM . Simultaneously , the labeled barcode on T-EVs initiated targeted binding with the DNA complementary tag modified mesoporous silica foam ( MOSF-tag ) , achieving in situ exosomal protein extraction and digestion within the nanopores of the MOSF-tag . This integrated strategy not only streamlines the process by eliminating complex steps and minimizing sample loss but also significantly enhances protein identification efficiency . Compared to traditional methods for T-EVs isolation and protein digestion , the smart nanodevice has demonstrated a remarkable improvement in the detection of exosomal proteins and specific proteins from the cell culture medium . As a proof of concept , we applied this strategy to serum samples from prostate cancer ( PCa ) patients , confirming its efficacy . A total of 832 proteins were identified , with 211 showing differential expression between patients and healthy controls . Among these , 113 proteins were significantly upregulated in the PCa group . These uniquely expressed proteins are likely associated with PCa development , invasion , and metastasis , highlighting their potential as biomarkers for the early diagnosis and prognosis of PCa in the future . This innovative approach not only advances the field of T-EVs research but also opens new avenues for the discovery of clinically relevant biomarkers in cancer . FAU - Wang , Yuqing
BACKGROUND : Paracetamol is a widely used over-the-counter drug for pain relief and fever management . However , its misuse through chronic overuse or acute overdose presents significant risks to human health , primarily causing hepatotoxicity and systemic oxidative stress . METHODOLOGY : This study evaluated the hepatoprotective , antioxidant , and anti-inflammatory effects of aqueous leaf extracts of Celosia trigyna and Euphorbia hirta in mitigating paracetamol-induced liver damage in male Wistar rats . RESULTS : Paracetamol administration ( 150 mg/kg ) significantly elevated liver function markers ( ALT , AST , ALP , and bilirubin ) , oxidative stress parameters ( MDA ) , and inflammatory cytokines ( IL-6 and TNF-alpha ) , while depleting antioxidant defenses ( SOD and GSH ) . Disrupted lipid profiles were also observed in the paracetamol-only group . Pretreatment with Celosia trigyna and Euphorbia hirta extracts ( 125 mg/kg and 250 mg/kg ) effectively ameliorated these effects by normalizing liver function markers , reducing oxidative stress and inflammation , and restoring lipid profiles . Molecular docking identified bioactive compounds such as rutin , quercetin , and kaempferol as potent inhibitors of Glutathione-S-Transferase , Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha , and Cytochrome P450 , with binding affinities of -3 , -2 , and -3 kcal/mol , respectively . These interactions underpin the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities observed in vivo . CONCLUSION : These findings suggest that Celosia trigyna and Euphorbia hirta have the potential to serve as natural prophylactic or therapeutic agents for mitigating paracetamol toxicity . Further research is required to isolate their active compounds and explore their synergistic potential with conventional treatments . This study bridges traditional medicine and modern pharmacology , offering innovative approaches to managing drug-induced liver .
INTRODUCTION : The potential role of post-percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) quantitative flow ratio ( QFR ) and ultrasonic flow ratio ( UFR ) in predicting adverse outcomes in patients with successful rotational atherectomy ( RA ) and stent placement remains to be defined . METHODS : A total of 68 patients with highly calcific lesions , who underwent both QFR and UFR measurements after PCI with both RA and stenting , were enrolled . The major adverse coronary events ( MACE ) of 62 patients who completed 12-month follow-up were analyzed . The clinical characteristics of 9 patients with MACE and 53 non-MACE patients were compared . The predictors of MACE were analyzed using LASSO regression combined with Cox regression analyses . RESULTS : Patients with MACE had more lipid-rich and mixed plaques , less stent expansion and symmetry index , and lower post-PCI QFR and UFR compared with non-MACE patients . Cox regression analyses found that patients with lower post-PCI QFR ( P < 05 ) or lower post-PCI UFR ( P < 01 ) had a significantly higher risk of MACE . Lasso regression was performed to select the most important predictors , and the subsequent Cox multivariate regression analyses showed that post-PCI UFR , mixed plaque , and stent expansion index were independent predictors of MACE ( all P < 05 ) . Multivariate linear regression analyses also found that changes in UFR ( P < 05 ) and post-PCI UFR at minimal stent area ( P < 01 ) were significantly associated with post-PCI UFR results . CONCLUSION : Lower value of post-PCI UFR is an independent predictor of 12-month MACE after PCI with RA and stent implantation in patients with highly calcified lesions .
Lipids , key constituents of cell-membranes , are the first responders to cell signals . At the crux of spatiotemporal dynamics of lipid-signaling responses are phosphoinositides . Indeed , phosphoinositides like phosphatidylinositol- ( 4 , 5 ) -bisphosphate ( PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 ) , present in the inner-leaflet of eukaryotic cell-membranes , form the link between signal reception and downstream signal-transmission . In this backdrop , reversible fluorescent probes that can track live PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 dynamics on a seconds time-scale will afford key insights into lipid-mediated signaling . However , realizing cell-permeable PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2-selective sensors for imaging dynamics remains a challenge due to the presence of structurally similar lipids and low levels of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P We report a computationally-designed , rapid-response , reversible , photo-stable , fluorescent sensor that permeates living cells , neurons , and a multicellular organism within few min of direct incubation and distinctly visualizes PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 pools . We used the sensor to interrogate the role of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 in driving the heterogeneity of signaling responses and contrasting behavioral effects that ensue upon binding of distinct ligands to the same G protein-coupled receptor . Specifically , we asked whether probing PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 dynamics using our novel sensor could uncover the earliest of signaling differences evoked by hallucinogenic versus non-hallucinogenic ligands at the serotonin2A ( 5-HT ( 2A ) ) receptor . Our results reveal that a hallucinogenic ligand at the 5-HT ( 2A ) receptor leads to a slower rate of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2-depletion when compared to a non-hallucinogenic ligand , within the initial seconds of ligand addition , but has a sustained effect . The ability of our designer chemical probe in timing early seconds-minute timescale lipid-dynamics in living cells opens avenues for tracking early time-point molecular events in neuronal response to chemical and physical stimuli .
Ferroptosis , a form of iron-dependent programmed cell death , is linked to various diseases and physiological processes . Despite the availability of various types of ferroptosis inducers , its inhibitors are limited to iron chelators or radical scavengers . This study demonstrates that Fe ( ii ) -selective fluorescent probes developed in our lab could serve as ferroptosis inhibitors via selective oxidation of Fe ( ii ) , which is required for lipid peroxidation . This finding opens the door to a new class of ferroptosis inhibitors with potential therapeutic applications .
Osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) was strongly correlated with the progression of congenital tibial pseudoarthrosis ( CPT ) . Activation of ferroptosis inhibited osteogenic differentiation of MSCs . ELAV-like RNA binding protein 1 ( ELAVL1 ) is a key factor in promoting ferroptosis . This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism of ELAVL1 in the osteogenic differentiation of CPT periosteum-derived MSCs . Osteogenic differentiation of CPT periosteum-derived MSCs was detected by ARS and ALP staining . Fe ( 2+ ) content and lipid reactive oxygen species content were measured using commercial kits . Molecular interactions were verified using RIP , RNA pulldown , and Co-IP . The ubiquitination level of homeobox gene D8 ( HOXD8 ) was detected using Co-IP . Expression of ELAVL1 and tripartite motif containing 21 ( TRIM21 ) was upregulated in CPT periosteum-derived MSCs , whereas HOXD8 expression was downregulated . Moreover , knockdown of ELAVL1 or TRIM21 inhibited ferroptosis and promoted osteogenic differentiation of CPT MSCs . TRIM21 overexpression reversed the effect caused by knockdown of ELAVL Mechanistically , ELAVL1 upregulated TRIM21 by increasing the stability of TRIM21 , which ubiquitinated and degraded HOXD ELAVL1 bound to TRIM21 , which promoted ubiquitination and degradation of HOXD8 , thereby promoting ferroptosis to inhibit osteogenic differentiation of CPT MSCs .
INTRODUCTION : Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent regulated cell death pathway , shares several features of Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) physiopathology , and efficient neuroprotective therapies are required to prevent DAergic neuron death initiated by ferroptosis . Electroacupuncture ( EA ) , a treasure of Traditional Chinese Medicine , exerted therapeutic effects against PD to avoid the side effects of dopamine ( DA ) -based therapies . However , its underlying mechanisms still need to be fully understood . METHODS : MPTP-induced PD mice were treated with EA to evaluate its neuroprotective effects . Behavioral assessments , histopathological analysis of DAergic neurons , and quantification of ferroptosis biomarkers-including malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) , iron , glutathione ( GSH ) , and mitochondrial integrity-were performed . Protein expression levels of SLC7A11 , GPX4 , ferritin heavy chain 1 ( FTH1 ) , and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) were analyzed via immunoblotting . To validate pathway specificity , the Nrf2 inhibitor trigonelline ( AT ) was co-administered with EA . RESULTS : EA treatment significantly mitigated MPTP-induced DAergic neuron loss and motor deficits . Mechanistically , EA suppressed ferroptosis by reducing lipid peroxidation and iron accumulation while restoring GSH levels . It upregulated ferroptosis-suppressive proteins SLC7A11 , GPX4 , FTH1 , and Nrf2 , alongside ameliorating mitochondrial dysfunction . Crucially , AT administration abolished EA ' s protective effects , confirming Nrf2 pathway dependency . DISCUSSION : These findings demonstrate that EA exerts neuroprotection in PD by inhibiting ferroptosis through activation of the Nrf2/SLC7A11/FTH1/GPX4 signaling axis . This study not only elucidates a novel mechanism underlying EA ' s efficacy in PD but also highlights ferroptosis modulation as a therapeutic strategy , bridging traditional medicine with molecular pathophysiology . This study has provided new ideas for exploring the mechanism of EA in PD treatment .
Background : Tendinopathies and ligament disorders are significant musculoskeletal adverse events associated with various drugs , leading to restricted mobility and reduced quality of life . Although certain drug classes such as fluoroquinolones and corticosteroids have established links to these conditions , there is limited research on other potential drug associations . This study aimed to comprehensively evaluate drugs associated with tendinopathies and ligament disorders using data from the USFDA Adverse Event Reporting System ( AERS ) . Methods : A retrospective pharmacovigilance study utilizing spontaneous reports from the USFDA AERS database between March 2004 and June 2024 was conducted . The Standardized Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities ( MedDRA ) query " Tendinopathies and ligament disorders " and relevant Preferred Terms were used to identify cases . Disproportionality analysis was performed using both frequentist and Bayesian methods . Subgroup analyses were conducted by age , gender , and clinical outcomes . Results : Out of 29 153 222 reports , 40 485 unique reports were included , with 6641 related to tendon rupture and 2121 to ligament rupture . Fluoroquinolones , corticosteroids , lipid-modifying agents , immunosuppressants , and bisphosphonates were confirmed to have strong associations with tendon and ligament disorders . Emergent signals were identified for anti-inflammatory drugs , and various other drugs , including vaccines . Hospitalization rates were significantly higher in cases of tendon rupture compared to ligament rupture ( P < . 0001 ) . Conclusion : This study confirms established drug associations and identifies new signals for tendinopathies and ligament disorders . Continued pharmacovigilance is necessary to validate these findings and enhance our understanding of drug-induced musculoskeletal disorders .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic syndrome is a known risk factor for gallstone formation . Elevated cholesterol concentration in the bile contributes to the formation of cholesterol stones . Following cholecystectomy , lipid profile abnormalities tend to normalize . OBJECTIVES : This study aims to evaluate serum lipid profile parameters before and after cholecystectomy and to assess their relationship with the type of gallstones . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The present study was a prospective observational study conducted in the Department of General Surgery at Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospital , Chennai , Tamil Nadu , India , between August 2023 and September Ethical clearance was obtained from the institutional ethics committee . The study included patients diagnosed with with gallstones who consulted the Department of General Surgery and underwent either open or laparoscopic cholecystectomy . Paired samples t-tests were used to compare lipid profile values before and after cholecystectomy . RESULTS : Among the participants , 49 ( 6% ) were aged 41-60 years , and 22 ( 9% ) were aged 18-40 years . Sixty-two ( 9% ) were female patients , and 59 ( 4% ) resided in urban areas . All lipid profile parameters decreased significantly following cholecystectomy , except for high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) levels , which showed a significant increase . The mean serum cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) levels were lower in patients with pigment stones compared to those with other types of stones . CONCLUSION : Cholecystectomy in patients with gallstones was found to normalize deranged lipid profiles . Significant reductions were observed in total cholesterol , LDL , triglycerides , and very LDL ( VLDL ) levels following the intervention . HDL levels were also increased significantly following cholecystectomy .
Background Type 2 diabetes mellitus prevalence in Jordan is high and increasing , leading to an increase in the use of metformin , which is considered the first-line treatment . Metformin , which belongs to the biguanides family of anti-diabetic medication , is known for its low cost , bodyweight neutrality , effectiveness , and good safety profile . In addition , it showed that it improves body lipid profile , inflammatory markers , and decreases cardiovascular events . In spite of that , a reduction in vitamin B12 levels was reported as a possible long-term side effect of metformin . Vitamin B12 deficiency can result in macrocytic , megaloblastic anemia , it can also cause neuropathies , including subacute combined degeneration , neuropsychiatric symptoms , peripheral neuropathy , and optic neuropathy . Aims The current study aimed to identify the level of serum vitamin B12 among patients who use metformin . Additionally , the study aimed to explore associations between serum vitamin B12 levels and patients ' age , gender , duration , and dosage of metformin use , and concurrent medications . Moreover , the study summarizes participants ' socio-demographical and pharmacological data and presents the statistical analysis methods used to answer the research questions . Methods A cross-sectional study was conducted on a sample that included 435 patients suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus at the internal medicine clinics at Al-Mahabba Hospital , Madaba , Jordan . After applying the inclusion and exclusion criteria that we have designed , information regarding their age , gender , metformin dosage , treatment duration , and other medications in use was precisely collected , followed by ordering serum vitamin B12 level and obtaining the results as soon as they were available . We diagnosed vitamin B12 deficiency depending on a cut-off value for serum vitamin B12 level of less than 200 pg/ml . The collected data were entered into an Microsoft Excel 16 ( Microsoft Corp . , Redmond , WA ) sheet and then transferred to the statistical software , IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows , Version 0 ( IBM Corp . , Armonk , NY ) to analyze the data . Results A total of 435 patients on metformin were participated , the majority of patients were male with sample mean age of 59 years , most of patients use metformin three times a day with 9 years of metformin duration of treatment , the serum vitamin B12 level was found to be 9 pg/ml which considers deficient with a prevalence of 66% . The patients ' age , metformin dose , and duration were negatively correlated with serum B The patients ' gender did not show an impact on vitamin B12 levels . The type of medications in use with metformin demonstrated a significant impact on B12 level , as evident by the post hoc test . Conclusion According to the findings , we concluded that patients who have used metformin are likely to be more vulnerable to vitamin B12 deficiency than those who have not used metformin . There is an obvious link between the patient ' s age , dosage , and length of metformin usage and the vitamin B12 deficiency . The patients ' gender did not show an impact on vitamin B12 levels . Also , other medications in use with metformin , such as insulin , vildagliptin , histamine 2 blockers , and proton pump inhibitors , have an impact on vitamin B12 levels .
INTRODUCTION : Obesity is closely associated with metabolic syndrome , a cluster of conditions including abdominal obesity , high triglycerides , low high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol , elevated blood pressure , and impaired glucose metabolism . Emerging research suggests that gut dysbiosis , an imbalance in gut microbiota , plays a key role in metabolic syndrome , influencing insulin resistance , inflammation , and lipid metabolism . The gut microbiome has gained attention for its impact on energy balance , fat storage , and metabolic regulation . This randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled , multicentric clinical study evaluated the efficacy and safety of probiotic-fiber blend formulation in obese adults . METHODS : Obese adults ( body mass index ( BMI ) 30-<40 kg/m , aged 30-45 ; male : 15% , female : 85% ) were randomly assigned to receive either the probiotic-fiber blend formulation or a placebo for 90 days , along with lifestyle counseling . Primary outcomes included body weight , BMI , waist/hip circumference , and body fat percentage . Secondary outcomes assessed biochemical parameters , digestive health , quality of life , perceived stress , and metabolic syndrome severity Z ( MetS-Z ) score . One hundred four participants completed the study . RESULTS : The probiotic-fiber blend formulation ( n = 53 ) demonstrated statistically significant ( p < 001 ) improvements compared to placebo ( n = 51 ) , including reductions in body weight ( 01% ) , BMI ( 14% ) , waist circumference ( 64% ) , and hip circumference ( 63% ) compared to placebo . Additionally , statistically significant reductions were observed in the MetS-Z score ( 02% ) , triglycerides ( 75% ) , and perceived stress ( 62% ) , along with a notable increase in HDL levels ( 55% ) . Significant improvements in digestive health and quality of life were also recorded , reinforcing the probiotic-fiber blend efficacy . CONCLUSION : The findings provide robust evidence that the probiotic-fiber blend effectively improves anthropometric and biochemical markers in obesity . These results underscore the therapeutic potential of gut microbiome modulation in metabolic health . Further research should explore long-term effects , mechanistic pathways , and broader clinical applications .
Elevated plasma triacylglycerol ( TAG ) levels are associated with endothelial dysfunction , inflammation , and increased vascular complications , particularly in populations such as individuals with sickle cell disease ( SCD ) . This study aimed to investigate the effect of a single exercise session on postprandial TAG levels in children with SCD following the consumption of a high-fat meal . The high-fat meal was used to induce a significant postprandial increase in plasma triayglecrol ( TAG ) levels , aknown risk factor for endothelial dysfunction and vascular implication , particualry in population with Sickle Cell Disease ( SCD ) . Twelve male children with SCD ( mean age : 5 +/- 2 years ) participated in two 2-day trials , one involving brisk walking ( exercise trial ) and one with rest ( rest trial ) , in a randomized , counter-balanced design . A mixed high-fat test meal ( 97 g fat , 124 g carbohydrate , 1 , 450 kcal ) was administered after a 10-h overnight fast , and blood samples were collected at baseline , 60 , 120 , 240 , 300 , and 360 min post-meal to measure serum TAG , glucose , insulin , and total cholesterol concentrations . Postprandial TAG levels significantly increased in both trials , but the exercise trial showed a significantly lower TAG response compared to the rest trial ( P < 05 ) . The area under the curve ( AUC ) for TAG was greater in the rest trial than in the exercise trial ( P < 05 ) . Specifically , TAG concentrations were significantly lower in the exercise trial at 120 and 180 min post-meal ( P < 05 ) , indicating faster clearance of TAG following exercise . Insulin and glucose concentrations also increased post-meal , with significantly lower insulin and glucose AUC values in the exercise trial compared to the rest trial ( P < 05 ) . No significant differences were observed in total cholesterol between the two trials at 360 min post-meal . These findings suggest that a single bout of exercise prior to a high-fat meal reduces postprandial TAG concentrations in children with SCD , consistent with previous studies in healthy populations . The reduction in postprandial TAG may have implications for improving endothelial function and reducing the risk of cardiovascular and vaso-occlusive events in individuals with SCD . Further studies are needed to explore the long-term effects of regular exercise on lipid metabolism and disease complications in this population .
[This corrects the article DOI : 3389/fonc . ] .
Crude fiber ( CF ) is a vital component in poultry nutrition with a notable phytonutrient effectively indicating the presence of indigestible biomass in food due to the absence of digestive enzymes for CF in broilers . This study aimed to analyze the properties of a multi-enzyme cocktail ( MEC ) Bacillus sonorensis BD92 ( BsBD92 ) comprised of xylanase , beta-glucosidase , exo-glucanase , and endo-glucanase enzymes . Also , this study intended to look at the growth performance and intestinal histology of broilers in the starter and finisher phases by the addition of MEC BsBD92 to their diet . To evaluate the efficacy of MEC BsBD92 , 140 one-day-old unsexed Cobb500 broiler chicks were randomly divided into seven groups receiving different diets . The characterization of exo-glucanase , xylanase , beta-glucosidase , and endo-glucanase showed that their peak activities were observed at a temperature of 00 C and a pH of The 00% CF and 00 X MEC BsBD92 improved the intestinal morphology and feed conversion ratio , demonstrating a synergistic effect on growth performance . Whereas , increasing meat percentages to 06 and 09 g per 100 g body weight during the starter and finisher phases was also observed , respectively . The lipid profiles revealed significant variations in triglyceride and cholesterol levels . This study provides an innovative approach , considering not only lowering the feed cost using inexpensive fibrous feedstuffs but also improving the feed efficiency through supplementation of MEC BsBD
OBJECTIVES : Sodium hydroxide ( NaOH ) is known to cause severe injuries through lipid saponification ; however , the mechanisms underlying NaOH-induced skin injuries , particularly their effects on lipid metabolism and ferroptosis , are unclear . Here , we aimed to elucidate these mechanisms based on lipid profile evaluations and ferroptosis occurrence . METHODS : We used experimental rat models of NaOH-induced skin burns ( skin exposed to 05% NaOH for 90 or 180 s ) alongside a sham-treated control group . Skin morphology and integrity were assessed . Differentially expressed lipid profiles were monitored via untargeted lipidomics . Oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation , and iron metabolism were also assessed . The expression of ferroptosis-associated genes , including acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) , lysophosphatidylcholine acyltransferase 3 ( LPCAT3 ) , and glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , was analysed using immunohistochemical and quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analyses . RESULTS : NaOH exposure for 90 and 180 s caused second- and third-degree burns , respectively , leading to elevated and reduced levels of polyunsaturated and monosaturated fatty acid phospholipids , respectively . Both groups showed significant increases in reactive oxygen species , ferrous iron , and malondialdehyde levels and significant decreases in glutathione levels . ACSL4 and LPCAT3 expression increased , and GPX4 expression decreased . CONCLUSION : NaOH-induced skin burns disrupt skin appendages , resulting in lipid metabolism alterations and ferroptosis induction . These findings could provide valuable insights for elucidating the precise mechanisms underlying ferroptosis in the context of NaOH burns and for identifying potential therapeutic strategies .
Preserving fresh meat has been a long-standing challenge due to microbial growth and lipid oxidation . In this study , chitosan ( CS ) active coatings loaded with blackberry anthocyanins ( BA ) , tea polyphenols ( TP ) , and their combination , designated as CS/BA , CS/TP , and CS/BA/TP , were applied for chilled pork preservation . Compared to CS coating alone , CS/BA/TP coating exhibited a 3% lower total viable count ( TVC ) , a 5% reduction in thiobarbituric acid reactive substances ( TBARS ) , and a 6% decrease in total volatile basic nitrogen ( TVB-N ) after 12 days of storage at 4 degrees C . Furthermore , the combined use of TP and BA exhibited a synergistic effect , with the most pronounced impact observed in oxidative stability , while also improving microbial inhibition and maintaining color stability . These results highlight CS/BA/TP coatings as a promising natural preservative for extending chilled pork shelf life .
Hypothermia and swimming have been shown to alleviate high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced obesity , with effects linked to the gut microbiota ( GM ) . However , whether the effects of cold water swimming ( CWS ) on GM can be effectively transferred through fecal microbiota transplantation ( FMT ) has not been investigated . This study established mice models of obesity , CWS and FMT to investigate the mechanism by which CWS reshapes GM to improve HFD-induced obesity . Additionally , we analyzed the relationship between obesity phenotypes , GM composition , gene expression and CWS . The study found that HFD induced obesity phenotypes and GM dysbiosis in mice , while CWS produced opposite effects . The FMT results confirmed that CWS effectively alleviated HFD-induced lipid accumulation , metabolic disorders , and chronic inflammatory responses , which are associated with increased GM diversity , enrichment of beneficial bacteria , and the repair of intestinal barrier damage . Furthermore , these beneficial effects can be effectively transferred via FMT . The evidence from this study suggests that GM plays a critical role in the anti-obesity effects of CWS , with intestinal barrier repair emerging as a potential therapeutic target . This also provides scientific evidence for the feasibility of FMT as a strategy to combat obesity .
Sex differences significantly influence the prognosis of left ventricular hypertrophy ( LVH ) . To investigate sex-specific differences in the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular event ( MACE ) among individuals with LVH , we enrolled 14 636 ( mean age 57 years , women 1% ) participants with high risk for cardiovascular diseases ( CVD ) from the sub-cohort of the China PEACE Million Persons Project . LVH was identified by echocardiography dividing left ventricular mass ( LVM ) by body surface area ( BSA ) , height ( 7 ) , or height ( 7 ) using validated sex-specific cutoff values . MACE was defined as a composite of coronary heart disease , myocardial infarction , strokes , heart failure , and/or cardiovascular death . During a median follow-up of 62 years , 1327 patients developed MACE . The prevalence of LVH was higher when indexing LVM to BSA and height ( 7 ) in women . Higher blood pressure ( BP ) and previous diabetes mellitus ( DM ) were associated with a higher risk of LVH in both genders , while aging and adiposity had a more hazardous impact in women than in men . Multivariable Cox regression analyses indicated an increasing risk between LVH and MACE exclusively in men . In individuals diagnosed with LVH , women exhibited a reduced risk for MACE . When indexing LVM to BSA , concentric hypertrophy ( adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] : 73 , 95% CI : 37-19 ; p < 001] and eccentric hypertrophy ( aHR : 54 , 95% CI : 06-25 ; p = 025 ) were significantly associated with MACE in men . In this population study , risk factors including BP , blood glucose , lipids level , and BMI should be managed strictly . Additionally , men should pay more attention to the occurrence of LVH , which had a greater association with MACE .
AIMS : The benefit of salicylate in the treatment of diabetes has been recognized for over a century ; however , challenging side effects have prevented widespread use . A better understanding of the relevant enzyme targets mediating its anti-hyperglycaemic effect may lead to the development of novel therapies for diabetes . Here , we investigated the contribution of 5 ' -adenosine monophosphate ( AMP ) -dependent inhibition of fructose-1 , 6-bisphosphatase 1 ( FBP1 ) to the anti-hyperglycaemic action of salicylate . METHODS : We studied AMP-insensitive FBP1 G27P knockin ( KI ) mice through a variety of cellular approaches , including proteomics , Seahorse metabolic analysis , glucose production , and other assays , in addition to a detailed assessment of metabolic responses in vivo . RESULTS : Compared with wild-type littermates , AMP-insensitive FBP1 KI mice were resistant to the effects of the drug on body weight , glucose tolerance , pyruvate disposal , liver lipid content and hepatic glucose production . Compared with wild-type , KI hepatocytes exhibited baseline differences in glycolytic , TCA cycle and fatty acid oxidation enzyme levels , potentially linking gluconeogenic dysregulation and its reversal to non-carbohydrate fuel management . CONCLUSION : Collectively , our data highlight a novel mechanism of action for the effects of salicylate on glycaemia and weight gain , which depends on AMP-mediated allosteric inhibition of FBP
Nanoplastics are generated from the fragmentation of microplastics under various environmental conditions in the atmosphere . These tiny pollutants are widespread and can enter the human body through the air we breathe and the food and water we consume . Understanding how nanoplastics interact with different membrane lipids is paramount to discerning the kind of threat they pose in terms of lung alveolar destabilization , impaired cell communication , cell wall disruption , diminished nutrient delivery , and neurotoxicity . In this research , we examined the interaction of polystyrene nanoplastics with phosphatidylcholine and palmitic acid at the aqueous interface to identify individual lipid response . Employing a comprehensive experimental approach that includes infrared-reflection absorption spectroscopy , Langmuir isotherms , and Brewster angle microscopy , we investigated chemical and physical changes of the lipid systems with nanoplastics dispersed within the water solution phase . Increasing the concentration of polystyrene nanoplastics in the solution phase led to enhanced interfacial activity ; the nanoplastics were observed to incorporate into the lipid films driven by adsorption/complexation . The findings provide insights into the physical mechanisms through which nanoplastics permeate cellular membranes and bioaccumulate . FAU - Proma , Shamma Jabeen
Ulcerative colitis ( UC ) , a common inflammatory bowel disease , has become increasingly prevalent worldwide , posing significant health challenges . This study explored the anti-inflammatory effects of beta-sitosterol on UC and its underlying molecular mechanisms . Using a dextran sulfate sodium ( DSS ) -induced colitis model in male C57BL/6 mice , the therapeutic potential of beta-sitosterol at low ( 2 mg/kg ) and high ( 6 mg/kg ) doses was compared with sulfasalazine ( 300 mg/kg ) as a positive control . Disease progression was assessed through Disease Activity Index ( DAI ) scores , histological analysis , and inflammatory marker expression . beta-sitosterol significantly ameliorated colonic inflammation , demonstrated by lower DAI scores , improved histological architecture , and reduced levels of inflammatory mediators , including NO , MPO , IL-6 , and iNOS , while upregulating the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL- Mechanistically , beta-sitosterol promoted AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) expression and suppressed myosin light chain kinase ( MLCK ) expression . These findings were validated in vitro using LPS-stimulated Caco-2 cells , where beta-sitosterol decreased inflammatory marker levels and modulated AMPK/MLCK signaling . Notably , the use of Compound C , an AMPK inhibitor , reversed these effects by suppressing AMPK activity and restoring MLCK expression , confirming that the anti-inflammatory actions of beta-sitosterol are AMPK-dependent . In conclusion , this study highlights the therapeutic potential of beta-sitosterol in UC through modulation of the AMPK/MLCK signaling pathway . These findings not only deepen our understanding of beta-sitosterol ' s anti-inflammatory properties but also suggest its potential in developing novel AMPK-targeted therapies for inflammatory bowel disease management .
Dietary exposure to acrylamide is almost unavoidable and may result into long-term consequences . It has been reported to cause sexual dysfunction and even infertility . This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of caffeic acid against acrylamide-induced reproductive dysfunction in male rats . Group 1 served as the control ; group 2 received acrylamide at a dose of 40 mg/kg for 10 days . In groups , 3-6 , acrylamide was given as in group 2 , followed by therapy of caffeic acid ( 10 , 20 , 30 , 40 mg/kg ) for 3 consecutive days . It was found that acrylamide causes significant alteration in serum concentrations of FSH , testosterone , and LH ; decreased sperm motility and viability . Acrylamide administration causes alteration in biochemical parameters including lipid peroxidation , reduced glutathione , and antioxidant enzymes ( SOD and CAT ) along with triglyceride , cholesterol , and seminal fructose . Moreover , acrylamide causes histological alterations and promotes DNA damage as evident by COMET assay . After caffeic acid treatment , serological , biochemical , and histological alterations returned to almost normal ranges . Based on our findings , it is reasonable to conclude that caffeic acid , a natural antioxidant , is a potential medication to lessen any harmful damage in male gonads brought on by acrylamide consumption .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is a prevalent metabolic disorder characterized by excessive lipid accumulation in the liver . The glycolytic enzyme enolase 3 ( ENO3 ) is reported to be most significantly elevated in the analysis of MASLD-related sequencing results based on the GEO database . However , the specific mechanism by which ENO3 regulates MASLD is not fully understood . OBJECTIVE : To investigate the role and possible molecular mechanism of ENO3 in MASLD . METHODS : The expression of ENO3 and PKM2 in the liver tissues of control and MASLD rats was detected by immunohistochemistry and western blot . In vitro studies involved treating THLE-2 cells with free fatty acids ( FFA ) and Ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) , as well as manipulating ENO3 expression via small interfering RNA ( siRNA ) and overexpression plasmids , and manipulating PKM2 expression via siRNA . Fat accumulation was assessed using Oil Red O staining and measurements of intracellular total cholesterol ( TC ) and triglycerides ( TG ) . Ferroptosis markers , including SLC7A11 , GPX4 , Fe ( 2+ ) , and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , were evaluated . Protein-protein interactions between ENO3 and PKM2 were examined using co-immunoprecipitation ( Co-IP ) and immunofluorescence . RESULTS : MASLD liver tissues exhibited significantly higher levels of ENO3 and PKM Silencing ENO3 in FFA-treated THLE-2 cells reduced fat accumulation , downregulated PKM2 expression , and decreased ferroptosis markers . Conversely , ENO3 overexpression promoted fat accumulation and ferroptosis , which were mitigated by Fer-1 or si-PKM Co-IP and immunofluorescence confirmed the physical interaction and co-localization of ENO3 and PKM2 in THLE-2 cells . CONCLUSIONS : ENO3 interacted with PKM2 to regulate ferroptosis and further promoted the progression of MASLD .
Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) , secreted by all cellular organisms , are pivotal mediators of intercellular communication . By transporting biologically active cargos such as proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids , EVs facilitate transfer of molecular signals , effectively reflecting the characteristics of their parent cells . Immune cellderived EVs ( iEVs ) play a crucial role in the activation and regulation of both adaptive and innate immune responses . In the context of immune activation , iEVs drive immune cell development and activation , as well as enhance antigen presentation through both direct and cross-dressing mechanisms . Furthermore , iEVs act as signaling entities within immunological synapses , significantly amplifying immune response efficiency . In immune regulation , iEVs modulate the expression of immune checkpoint ( IC ) molecules and sustain immune homeostasis by transporting immunosuppressive cytokines and microRNAs , thereby mitigating excessive immune reactions . Nevertheless , the mechanistic underpinnings of iEV-mediated immune cell activation , antigen presentation , and immunoregulation remain inadequately explored . This review provides a comprehensive overview of the functions of iEVs from diverse immune cell origins and underlying mechanisms . It also examines cutting-edge engineering strategies targeting iEVs and their parent cells , while discussing their promising applications in oncology and immune-related diseases . These insights lay the foundation for the rational development of next-generation immunotherapies . While promising , the clinical translation of iEVs is hindered by low yield , high batch-to-batch variability , and insufficient targeting efficiency . The final section discusses key challenges and potential solutions .
This work describes the rational design and synthesis of Hepsin-recognized amphiphilic branched peptides ( DMN-SIPL ) that can form solid condensates through liquid-liquid phase separation ( LLPS ) upon enzymatic reaction . The peptide forms solid-like condensates both in vitro and in living cells , triggered by type-II membrane-associated serine peptidase , Hepsin , whose overexpression determines prostate cancer progression . Specifically , integrating self-assembly , Hepsin hydrolysis , and Hepsin binding domain generates a branched substrate that acts a precursor for enzyme induced LLPS . Upon binding Hepsin on the cell membrane , DMN-SIPL forms condensates initiated by Hepsin induced self-assembly . The prostate cancer cells then uptake these condensates via lipid raft-mediated endocytosis . The entrapped Hepsin in the condensates further hydrolyze the DMN-SIPL to stabilize the intracellular condensates . Structure activity relationship reveals the importance of enzyme binding motif , enzyme recognized motif , and the self-assembly motif . Mechanistic studies indicate that the resulting solid-like condensates modulate cancer cell metabolism by inhibiting Hepsin upstream protein activation and downstream signal transduction , ultimately inducing cancer cell growth inhibition selectively . As a first example , this work investigates enzymatic LLPS condensates formation in living cells , paving the way to generate functional synthetic biomolecular condensates through LLPS for biomedical applications .
Since kidney diseases are a major global concern , their impact on public health makes them an important area of study . The kidneys , as the primary organs responsible for excreting waste , are particularly vulnerable to heavy metal poisoning . Cadmium ( Cd ) , a naturally occurring heavy metal found in contaminated food and water , poses a serious risk to renal health . Due to their remarkable biological properties , methylindoline derivatives are being investigated for a variety of medicinal applications . The primary objective of this study is to screen and assess the anti-inflammatory and anti-nephritic qualities of methylindoline derivatives ( IA , IB , IC , ID , IE ) . Through network pharmacology and molecular docking analyzes , the derivative IC ( ( E ) -3- ( 2- ( 4-methoxyphenyl ) -2-oxoethylidene ) -5-methylindolin-2-one ) was identified for further study . In In Vitro screening , IC showed strong antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties in a dose-dependent manner . It effectively reduced oxidative stress , lipid peroxidation , and apoptosis induced by cadmium in zebrafish . In renal tissues , IC treatment decreased levels of lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) while restoring the activity of antioxidant enzymes such as catalase ( CAT ) and superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) . The expression of pro-inflammatory cytokine genes , including TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , IL-6 , and NF-kappaB , was also significantly downregulated by IC . Histopathological analysis of zebrafish kidneys demonstrated the restoration of renal tissue architecture , validating the protective effects of IC . These results highlight IC ' s therapeutic potential in treating cadmium-induced nephritis .
OBJECTIVE : Rearing broilers in high-temperature environments can impair growth performance , affecting the economic efficiency of broiler production . Dietary fiber sources like yam bean pulp ( YBP ) may mitigate these effects by promoting digestive organ development and gut integrity , enhancing nutrient absorption and growth . This study aimed to evaluate the impact of YBP inclusion on digestive development , gut morphology , nutrient digestibility , serum lipid profiles , and growth performance in broilers raised under high environmental temperatures . METHODS : Since YBP has not previously been used in poultry diets , its optimal inclusion level was determined using in vitro digestibility measurements , which identified 4% YBP as the optimal initial inclusion level for further in vivo study . Subsequently , the in vivo study was conducted with 200 one-day-old ROSS broiler chicks , randomly assigned to four dietary treatments ( 0% , 4% , 8% , and 12% YBP ; 5 replicates of 10 birds each ) , and housed in an open system at an average temperature of 1 +/- 7 degrees C . Digestive traits , nutrient digestibility , serum lipid profiles , and growth performance were assessed over 21 days . RESULTS : Results showed that YBP inclusion ( up to 12% ) improved gut morphology by increasing villi height and the villi height-to-crypt depth ratio in the duodenum and ileum , alongside dose-dependent improvements in dry matter digestibility . However , crude protein digestibility declined when YBP levels exceeded 8% . Despite these benefits , YBP inclusion did not alleviate heat stress effects on growth performance , digestive organ development , or serum lipid profiles , even at the highest inclusion level . CONCLUSION : Dietary YBP can enhance gut morphology and nutrient digestibility in broilers from day 1 to 21 , with optimal inclusion levels not exceeding 8% . However , its use does not mitigate the negative effects of heat stress on broiler growth in high-temperature environments . FAU - Sakwiwatkul , Kedsirin
There is a surplus of byproducts from food processing in the food industry , which has potential nutritional value . The process of transforming these leftover materials into products of higher value or utility is currently referred to as upcycling . The objective of this systematic review was to answer the following question : " Can byproducts from the food industry promote health-related benefits in vivo ? " . To answer this question , three scientific databases were considered for the literature search : PubMed , Scopus , and Web of Science . The inclusion criteria were outlined by the PICOS , and data analysis was conducted following the PRISMA guidelines . Thirteen studies that used animal models to evaluate the potential benefits of food byproducts were included in this review . These food byproducts demonstrated potential positive effects on overall health . The main results identified are related to the reduction of reactive oxygen species , reduction of enzymes related to liver damage , improvement of cytokines such as IL-6 , IL-2 , and TNF-alpha , and improvement of glucose and lipid plasma levels . However , more studies are necessary to better elucidate the activities , mechanisms of action , and potential toxicity of these compounds . PROSPERO ( CRD42024576869 ) . FAU - Woelffel Silva , Caroline
Stem cell-derived islets ( SC-islets ) consist of multiple hormone-producing cell types and offer a promising therapeutic avenue for treating type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) . Currently , the composition of cell types generated within these SC-islets cannot be controlled via soluble factors during this differentiation process and consist of off-target cell types . In this study , we devised a magnetic-activated cell sorting protocol to enrich SC-islets for CD49a , a marker associated with functional insulin-producing beta cells . SC-islets were generated from human pluripotent stem cells using an adherent differentiation protocol and then sorted and aggregated into islet-like clusters to produce CD49a-enriched , CD49a-depleted , and unsorted SC-islets . Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) and immunostaining revealed that CD49a-enriched SC-islets had higher proportions of beta cells and improved transcriptional identity compared to other cell types . Functional assays demonstrated that CD49a-enriched SC-islets exhibited enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion both In vitro and In Vivo following transplantation into diabetic mice . These findings suggest that CD49a-based sorting significantly improves beta cell identity and the overall function of SC-islets , improving their effectiveness for T1D cell replacement therapies .
The thermodynamics of arginine-phosphate binding is key to cellular signaling , protein-nucleic acid interactions , and membrane protein dynamics . In biomolecules , monoester phosphates are typically employed as strong electrostatic anchors strategically placed in switch domains to mediate specific interactions . In the diester configuration , phosphate groups act as ubiquitous connectors in all nucleic acids and polar lipids , while also engaging in less specific but multiple electrostatic interactions . Here , we employ isothermal titration calorimetry ( ITC ) and a set of small-molecule models and peptides to benchmark the ability of the CHARMM force field to accurately reproduce these interactions . We observe good agreement between ITC and computational results for methylguanidinium ( MGUA ) with glycerol and glucose phosphates ( MGUA-Gly3P , MGUA-Glu6P ) , and for arginine-glycine-arginine peptide with inositol triphosphate ( RGR-IP3 ) systems , with experimental binding energies of -30 +/- 30 , -89 +/- 30 , and -96 +/- 17 kcal/mol , compared to computational values of -08 +/- 00 , -20 +/- 00 , and -17 +/- 20 kcal/mol , respectively . However , the experimental binding energy of -24 +/- 71 kcal/mol between MGUA and dimethylphosphate ( DMP ) in a diester configuration was significantly underestimated in CHARMM computations ( -51 +/- 01 kcal/mol ) . The force field was , therefore , refined by reducing the Lennard-Jones R ( min ) parameter from 55 to 405 A for a specific interaction involving nitrogen and oxygen atoms in MGUA-DMP . Our study brings another experimental means for fine-tuning force field parameters for the phosphates in two distinct configurations and enhances the accuracy of modeling nucleic acids , lipids , and membrane proteins .
Lyotropic liquid crystalline nanostructures formed by self-assembly in an aqueous medium are of fundamental interest and crucial for therapeutic applications , encapsulation of nutraceuticals , tissue engineering , and diagnostics . The biomimetic lipid bilayer building blocks impart biodegradable properties and low toxicity of the created nanoassemblies . The question of synergistic or quenching effects on the resulting bioactivity arises from the coencapsulation of multiple antioxidants ( e . g . , vitamin E ( VitE ) , curcumin ( CU ) , or coenzyme Q ) in nanocarriers of mixed nonlamellar-phase lipids ( e . g . , amphiphilic monoglycerides or plasmalogens with long polyunsaturated fatty acid ( PUFA ) chains ) . The response to this question should favor phytochemical-based therapies against oxidative stress and inflammatory disorders using sustainable nanomedicines . Herein , we investigate the nanodispersion of multicomponent antioxidant/lipid mixtures using the copolymer Pluronic F127 and three PEGylated amphiphiles ( TPGS-PEG , MO-PEG ( 2000 , ) and DSPE-PEG ) . The purpose is to establish possible relationships between the amphiphilic pharmaceutical compositions , structural stability , degradability in the biological cell culture medium , and the effects on antioxidant activity . The structures and the topologies of the phytochemical-loaded mesophases were revealed by synchrotron small-angle X-ray scattering and cryogenic transmission electron microscopy imaging . We found that encapsulated antioxidants ( CU , Q ( 10 , ) or VitE ) fine-tune the lipid bilayer properties and the nanostructure of the self-assembled systems to form lamellar ( L ) , inverted hexagonal ( H ( II ) ) , or cubic ( Im3m ) liquid crystalline phases . The results demonstrated that the composition of the nanoassemblies ( lipids , dispersing agents , and antioxidants ) governs the structural organization through changes in the interfacial curvature and miscibility effects . A minimal toxicity of the nanoassemblies was observed in vitro using the human neuroblastoma cell line ( SH-SY5Y ) . The biodegradability/stability of the nanodispersions was linked with gradual dynamic changes in nanoparticle size distribution in the biological cell culture medium ( DMEM ) . The established enhanced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) -scavenging activity of the liquid crystalline nanoformulations is of interest for developing safe pharmaceutical nanosystems for multitargeted delivery of poorly soluble phytochemicals . FAU - Akanchise , Thelma
Upon cell stimulation , mammalian cells activate various signaling proteins and lipids by recruiting their upstream regulators to the inner leaflet of the plasma membrane ( PM ) , which in turn determines their cellular response . Therefore , artificially inducing protein translocation to the PM is an effective strategy for dissecting cell signaling networks and engineering cellular functions . Self-localizing ligand-induced protein translocation ( SLIPT ) is an emerging technique that we developed to control protein localization in living cells using synthetic self-localizing ligands ( SLs ) . Building on this strategy , we recently introduced a versatile chemogenetic SLIPT platform that rapidly recruits proteins of interest fused to an engineered Escherichia coli dihydrofolate reductase tag from the cytoplasm to the PM using a trimethoprim-based SL . The PM-specific SLIPT ( SLIPT-PM ) system is easy to use and enables researchers to manipulate diverse intracellular signaling molecules and pathways with controlled reversibility and repeatability . Owing to its modular design , related SLIPT-PM tools have also been developed to support more sophisticated experiments , such as light-induced spatially regulated protein recruitment and multiplexed signal manipulation . In this Concept article , we review the development , principal features , current applications , and future challenges of SLIPT-PM as a unique tool in chemical biology and synthetic biology .
BACKGROUND : Despite the importance of the gut microbiome on physical performance and health , little is known on the impact of training on an athlete ' s gut health . OBJECTIVE : This study investigates the effect of training load on markers of gut health . METHODS : Whole stool ( 24 h ) samples were collected from 23 highly trained rowers ( mean +/- SD ; age 2 +/- 1 y ; weight 1 +/- 4 kg ; height 83 +/- 09 m ) following periods of high ( HT ) and low training load ( LT ) . The microbiome and short-chain fatty acid concentrations were characterized from the whole stool samples . Three-day weighted food records were used to determine diet quality ( ADIcore ) , macronutrient , and fiber intakes during HT and LT . RESULTS : By design , training duration ( 147% ) and intensity ( 130% ) were greater during ( HT ) , compared with ( LT ) ( p < 001 ) . Carbohydrate , fat , protein , and fiber intake remained stable , but ADIcore was higher in HT ( 55 +/- 10 ) compared with LT ( 49 +/- 9 ; t = 78 , p = 014 ; CI : 34 to 155 ) . Stool frequency ( 11 +/- 47 vs 67 +/- 76 ; p = 007 ) was lower in HT compared with LT , and a greater number of participants were unable to produce a stool sample during LT ( 8% vs 47% ) . Short chain fatty acid ( SCFA ) , propionic ( 64 +/- 06 mm vs 35 +/- 91 mm ; p = 007 ) , and butyric acid ( 76 +/- 02 vs 23 +/- 05 mm , p = 003 ) concentrations were lower in HT compared with LT . Alpha diversity , Shannon-Wiener diversity index ( 43 +/- 37 vs 67 +/- 34 , p = 09 ) was lower in HT than LT . The abundance of the dominant Bacteroidia was greater at HT compared to LT and ratio of firmicutes to Bacteroidota ( n = 16 , 31 +/- 19 vs 29 +/- 88 , t = -44 , p = 04 , CI = -82 to -13 ) was lower in HT compared to LT . CONCLUSION : Results of this study indicate that gut microbiome , SCFA concentrations , stool frequency , and diet quality vary between periods of high and low training load in athletes . The relationship between these factors and impact of such changes in gut health is currently unclear and warrants further investigation . FAU - Charlesson , B
Inflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of numerous chronic inflammatory diseases , including cardiovascular diseases . Buyang Huanwu decoction ( BYHWD ) is widely employed to treat chronic inflammation and related disorders . However , the pharmacokinetics of BYHWD ' s active compounds under inflammatory conditions remain unclear . This study aims to investigate the comparative pharmacokinetics of eight bioactive components in control and LPS-induced chronic inflammatory rats following oral administration of BYHWD . A chronic inflammatory rat model was established by administering low-dose lipopolysaccharide ( LPS , 200 mug/kg ) via tail vein injection . An ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( UPLC-MS/MS ) method was developed for simultaneous quantification of eight major bioactive components of BYHWD in rat plasma . Subsequently , the pharmacokinetic profiles of these analytes were characterized in both control and inflammatory rats . Excellent linearity ( R > 9958 ) was observed for all analytes in rat plasma samples . Absolute recoveries ranged from 84% to 86% , and matrix effects varied between 04% and 14% . The method met the criteria for intra- and inter-day precision , accuracy , and stability . In conclusion , the established UPLC-MS/MS method reliably investigated the pharmacokinetic characteristics of BYHWD ' s bioactive components and indicate that chronic inflammation may reduce the absorption of these compounds , providing valuable insights into BYHWD ' s clinical applications .
Excessive reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) levels cause oxidative stress , which can lead to various diseases . Renal failure is associated with oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction . Vitamin K1 ( phylloquinone ) and K2 ( menaquinone ) are essential for blood coagulation and bone formation . Vitamin K has been shown to have anti-inflammation , glucose metabolism regulation , and antiferroptosis functions . We investigated the impact of menaquinone-4 ( MK-4 ) on oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in human renal proximal tubular cells . MK-4 protected cells from oxidative damage induced by l-buthionine- ( S , R ) -sulfoximine ( BSO ) , a selective inhibitor of glutathione metabolism , by inhibiting cell death , mitochondrial ROS production , and lipid peroxidation . MK-4 also reduced lactate production , prevented mitochondrial fragmentation , and improved mitochondrial respiratory function , indicating cytoprotective effects . Moreover , it enhanced intracellular ATP production and respiratory capacity , even in the absence of oxidative stress . Thus , MK-4 plays an important role in mitochondrial function in renal proximal tubular cells . FAU - Ho , Hsinjung
In recent years , the gut microbiota has been increasingly recognized for its influence on various central nervous system diseases mediated by microglia , yet the underlying mechanisms remain unclear . As key metabolites of the gut microbiota , short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) have emerged as a focal point in understanding microglia-related interactions . In this review , we further refine the connection between the gut microbiota and microglia by introducing the concept of the " SCFAs-microglia " pathway . We summarize current knowledge on this pathway , recent discoveries regarding its role in neurological diseases , and potential pharmacological strategies targeting it . Finally , we outlined the current challenges and limitations in this field of research . We hope this review provides new insights into the role of the gut microbiota in neuroimmune regulation .
BACKGROUND : Maintaining the integrity of the structure and function of piglet intestines is crucial for their growth and health . This study aims to evaluate the effects of an antibiotic free diet supplemented with bile acid on gut health and growth performance of weaned piglets , and to explore their regulatory mechanisms . METHODS : Thirty-two weaned piglets were randomly divided into two groups and fed either a basal diet or a basal diet supplemented with 350 mg/kg bile acid . RESULTS : Dietary supplementation with bile acid increased the average daily gain ( ADG ) and final weight of piglets , and reduced the diarrhea incidence ( P < 05 ) , which was verified to be related to the improvement of lipid absorption , amino acid transport , and intestinal barrier function . Bile acid increased the concentration of lipase and decreased the concentration of total cholesterol , total glyceride , low-density lipoprotein , and urea nitrogen in serum ( P < 05 ) . Meanwhile , bile acid improved the mRNA expression of amino acid transporters in the intestine . On the other hand , bile acid decreased the pH values of the stomach , jejunum , and colon , and improved intestinal morphology ( P < 05 ) . The real-time quantitative PCR results showed that bile acid increased the mRNA expression of Occludin and ZO-1 in the duodenum and ileum ( P < 05 ) . Moreover , dietary bile acid supplementation altered the composition of the ileal microbiota in piglets and increased the relative abundance of Ligilactobacillus . In vitro , bile acid improved the repair of IPEC-J2 cells after injury and was shown to be associated with the activation of farnesoid X receptors ( FXR ) and increased expression of tight junction proteins and aquaporins ( AQPs ) proteins . CONCLUSION : This study found that dietary bile acid supplementation promotes the intestinal health and nutrient absorption partially through the FXR/AQPs pathway , ultimately improving growth performance of piglets .
BACKGROUND : Hypertension is a major public health concern , making effective preventive strategies essential . The atherogenic index of plasma ( AIP ) , a new lipid metabolic index that is associated with insulin resistance and cardiovascular diseases . However , the association between AIP and the incidence of hypertension remains unexplored . To address this knowledge gap , we designed a large-scale retrospective cohort study to investigate the association between AIP and the occurrence of hypertension across different blood pressure ( BP ) states , including individuals with normal BP and those with elevated BP . METHODS : This retrospective cohort study used data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) involving participants aged 45 and older , assessed in 2011 and followed up in AIP was calculated using the logarithmic ratio of triglycerides ( TG ) to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) . Logistic regression models , restricted cubic splines models , and threshold analyses were employed to examine the relationship between AIP and the incidence of hypertension . Receiver Operating Characteristic analysis was utilized to assess the ability of AIP to predict the incidence of hypertension . Subgroup analyses were conducted across various demographic and health-related factors . Sensitivity analyses were employed to address biases arising from self-reported data . RESULTS : Among 6540 participants , 1909 ( 19% ) developed hypertension over nine years . The AIP is an independent risk factor for the development of hypertension , with an adjusted odds ratio of 84 [95% confidence interval ( CI ) 41-39 , p < 001] in individuals with normal BP and 88 ( 95% CI 40-52 , p < 001 ) in those with elevated BP . A nonlinear relationship between AIP and the incidence of hypertension was identified in both normal BP and elevated BP population . AIP has a better predictive ability for the occurrence of hypertension compared to the single indicators of TG and HDL-C . Age significantly impacted AIP ' s predictive value , especially in those aged 45 to 60 in normal BP population . Sensitivity analyses further validated the nonlinear relationship between AIP and the occurrence of hypertension . CONCLUSIONS : AIP is a significant predictor of hypertension , demonstrating a nonlinear association with its occurrence in normal BP and elevated BP population . TRIAL REGISTRATION : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : Type 2 diabetes is an increasingly prevalent metabolic disorder with moderate to high heritability . Glycemic indices are crucial for diagnosing and monitoring the disease . Previous genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) have identified several risk loci associated with type 2 diabetes , but data from the Taiwanese population remain relatively sparse and primarily focus on type 2 diabetes status rather than glycemic trait levels . METHODS : We conducted a comprehensive genome-wide meta-analysis to explore the genetics of glycemic traits . The study incorporated a community-based cohort of 145 , 468 individuals and a hospital-based cohort of 35 , 395 individuals . The study integrated genetics , transcriptomics , biological pathway analyses , polygenic risk score calculation , and drug repurposing for type 2 diabetes . RESULTS : This study assessed hemoglobin A1c and fasting glucose levels , validating known loci ( FN3K , SPC25 , MTNR1B , and FOXA2 ) and discovering new genes , including MAEA and PRC Additionally , we found that diabetes , blood lipids , and liver- and kidney-related traits share genetic foundations with glycemic traits . A higher PRS was associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes . Finally , eight repurposed drugs were identified with evidence to regulate blood glucose levels , offering new avenues for the management and treatment of type 2 diabetes . CONCLUSIONS : This research illuminates the unique genetic landscape of glucose regulation in Taiwanese Han population , providing valuable insights to guide future treatment strategies for type 2 diabetes .
Long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) have emerged as critical regulators of lipid metabolism , playing pivotal roles in cholesterol biosynthesis , transport , and efflux . Familial Hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) , a genetic disorder characterized by excessive low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels , remains a significant contributor to premature cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) . Traditional diagnostic methods , including lipid profiling and genetic testing , have limitations in sensitivity and accessibility , highlighting the need for novel molecular biomarkers . This review delves into the mechanistic involvement of lncRNAs in FH pathogenesis , shedding light on their potential as non-invasive biomarkers and therapeutic targets . Key lncRNAs such as LeXis , CHROME , and H19 have been implicated in cholesterol regulation and atherosclerosis progression , making them attractive candidates for precision medicine applications . Additionally , advancements in AI-driven lncRNA discovery and single-cell transcriptomics are paving the way for innovative diagnostic and therapeutic strategies . Emerging RNA-based therapeutics , including antisense oligonucleotides , small interfering RNAs ( siRNAs ) , and CRISPR-based gene-editing tools , hold promise for modulating lncRNA function to restore lipid homeostasis . However , challenges such as biomarker validation , efficient RNA delivery , and regulatory approval must be addressed for clinical translation . The integration of lncRNA-based approaches into FH management offers new possibilities for early detection , targeted therapy , and personalized cardiovascular risk assessment , underscoring the need for continued research in this rapidly evolving field .
Cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) remains the leading cause of mortality among people with type 1 diabetes ( T1D ) , with cardiovascular mortality rates 2-5 times higher than in the general population . A concerning sex disparity exists within this high-risk population , as the cardioprotective advantage typically observed in women without diabetes appears attenuated or eliminated in individuals with T1D . This disparity is evident across the CVD spectrum , including coronary artery disease , stroke , heart failure , and cardiovascular mortality , with women consistently experiencing an excess burden of disease . These differences are particularly pronounced in women with early-onset T1D , leading to a substantial loss of life-years-approximately 18 years for women compared to 14 for men . Several factors may contribute to this sex disparity . First , the effect of hyperglycemia on CVD appears to have a sex-based differential impact and women with T1D often demonstrate more difficulties to achieve optimal glycemic control . Second , although women with T1D generally exhibit a more favorable CVD risk factor profile than men with T1D , the presence of hypertension , smoking or diabetic kidney disease seem to have a strong impact on CVD in women . Diabetes also appears to diminish sex-based differences in lipid metabolism , and a trend towards increased obesity rates among women with T1D has been observed . Lastly , female-specific factors , which are more prevalent in T1D , exacerbate cardiovascular risk . These include premature menopause , pregnancy-related disorders ( such as preeclampsia ) , polycystic ovary syndrome , and autoimmune diseases , which disproportionately affect women . This narrative review examines the epidemiological evidence highlighting the aspects regarding the excess risk of CVD in women with T1D and evaluates sex disparities in both traditional and female-specific risk factors . Finally , we include a sex-based analysis from the Catalan Registry , which highlights the critical need for greater awareness and enhanced early detection and management of CVD risk factors in this population .
BACKGROUND : This study evaluated L-carnitine ' s impact on oxidative stress , lipid metabolism , and pulmonary hypertensive response in broilers under high-altitude and cold stress . METHOD : A total of 225 male broiler chicks ( Ross 308 , 5 +/- 5 g ) were raised at 2100 m altitude and exposed to cold stress . Birds were divided into three groups : control , LC-50 ( 50 mg/kg L-carnitine ) , and LC-100 ( 100 mg/kg L-carnitine ) . At 42 days , blood and tissues were collected to measure malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , nitric oxide ( NO ) , hematocrit , and right ventricular to total ventricular weight ( RV : TV ) ratio ( PHS indicator ) . Gene expression of superoxide dismutase 1 ( SOD1 ) , glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) , catalase ( CAT ) , carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 ( CPT1 ) , carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 ( CPT2 ) , and inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) was analyzed in the heart , lung , and hindbrain using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) . RESULTS : The RV : TV ratio , MDA levels , and hematocrit ( % ) significantly decreased in the LC-50 and LC-100 groups compared to the control group , while nitric oxide levels increased ( For all P < 05 ) . The expression of SOD1 , GPX , CAT , and iNOS genes was significantly increased in the heart , lung , and hindbrain of the LC-100 group compared to the control group ( P < 05 ) , while CPT1 and CPT2 expression increased significantly only in the heart and hindbrain ( P < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Dietary L-carnitine , especially at 100 mg/kg , effectively alleviates oxidative stress , enhances vasodilation , improves lipid metabolism , and mitigates pulmonary hypertensive responses in broilers exposed to high-altitude hypoxia and cold stress .
Freezing sperm for artificial insemination ( AI ) has been common for decades , but this method causes damage to sperm , which affects its viability and fertility . Various strategies have been used to treat sperm cryopreservation complications , but their results are still not satisfactory . The latest approach in this field is using extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) . The role of EVs in reproduction , such as spermatogenesis , sperm capacitation , and fertility has been proven . EVs can deliver proteins , lipids , nucleic acids , and other molecules to the sperm for repair . The EVs carry proteins , lipids , nucleic acids , and other molecules , which could be involved in sperm quality , functionality or fertility . The application of EV derived from animal and human cell sources for cryoinjury treatment indicates the improvement of sperm quality after freeze-thawing . In addition , different EV engineering methods regarding various EV cargos could be more influential for cryopreserved sperm treatment because they could provide EV customized content for delivering to cryoinjured sperm , according to their unique needs to enhance viability and fertility . In this review , first , we reminded the sperm cryopreservation complications , and next explained the conventional and modern strategies for overcoming them . Then , we have pointed out the role of EV in sperm development and the following mentioned the study results of using EV from different cell sources in sperm cryoinjuries repair . Also , we suggested several predisposing molecules ( including microRNAs and proteins ) for EV engineering to treat sperm cryopreservation complications by indirect engineering procedure , including genetic manipulation and incubation with therapeutic molecules , and direct engineering procedure , including electroporation , sonication , incubation , saponin permeabilization , extrusion , CaCl2-heat shock , and freeze/thawing . Finally , we discussed the limitations of EV application and ethical considerations in this context . In the meantime , despite these limitations , we pointed out the promising potential of the EV engineering strategies to reduce infertility rates by helping to overcome sperm cryopreservation challenges .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE : Atherogenicity indices have emerged as promising markers for cardiometabolic disorders , yet their relationship with prediabetes risk remains unclear . This study aimed to comprehensively evaluate the associations between six atherogenicity indices and prediabetes risk in a Chinese population , and explore the predictive value of these atherosclerotic parameters for prediabetes . METHODS : This retrospective cohort study included 97 , 151 participants from 32 healthcare centers across China , with a median follow-up of 99 ( 13 , 95 ) years . Six atherogenicity indices were calculated : Castelli ' s Risk Index-I ( CRI-I ) , Castelli ' s Risk Index-II ( CRI-II ) , Atherogenic Index of Plasma ( AIP ) , Atherogenic Index ( AI ) , Lipoprotein Combine Index ( LCI ) , and Cholesterol Index ( CHOLINDEX ) . To address the natural relationships between the atherogenicity indices and risk of prediabetes , we applied Cox proportional hazards regression with cubic spline functions and smooth curve fitting , using a recursive algorithm to calculate inflection points . Machine learning approach ( XGBoost and Boruta methods ) to address the high collinearity among indices and assess their relative importance , combined with time-dependent ROC analysis to evaluate the predictive performance at 3- , 4- , and 5-year follow-up . RESULTS : During follow-up , 11 , 199 participants developed prediabetes ( incidence rate : 71 per 100 person-years ) . Significant nonlinear associations were observed between all atherogenicity indices and prediabetes risk . Through Z-score standardization of atherogenicity indices and comprehensive Cox proportional hazards regression and advanced machine learning techniques , we identified AIP as the most significant predictor of prediabetes [HR = 057 ( 95% CI 035-080 , P < 0001 ) ] , with LCI emerging as a secondary important marker [HR = 020 ( 95% CI 002-038 , P = 0267 ) ] . Our innovative XGBoost and Boruta analysis uniquely validated these findings , providing robust evidence of AIP and LCI ' s critical role in prediabetes risk assessment . Time-dependent ROC analysis further validated these findings , with LCI and AIP demonstrating comparable discrimination , with overlapping AUC ranges of 5952- Notably , the combined indices model achieved enhanced predictive performance ( AUC : 6753 ) compared to individual indices , suggesting the potential benefit of using multiple atherogenicity indices for prediabetes risk prediction . CONCLUSION : This study identifies statistically significant associations between atherogenicity indices and prediabetes risk , highlighting their nonlinear relationships and combined effects . While the predictive performance of these indices is modest ( AUC 55-68 ) , these findings may contribute to improved risk stratification when incorporated into comprehensive assessment strategies .
BACKGROUND : Stress urinary incontinence ( SUI ) is a common condition affecting the genitourinary system in postmenopausal women . Obesity and dyslipidemia are recognized as significant factors that contribute to the onset of SUI . The cardiometabolic index ( CMI ) , a reliable indicator of health risks associated with obesity , is crucial in assessing these risks . This study aims to investigate the relationship between CMI and the occurrence of SUI in postmenopausal women across the United States . METHODS : This cross-sectional study employed data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) conducted between 2013 and 2018 , concentrating on postmenopausal women aged 40 years and above in the United States . Multiple regression models were utilized to evaluate the association between CMI and postmenopausal SUI , while controlling for pertinent confounding variables . Smooth curve fitting ( SCF ) techniques were utilized to evaluate the correlation between postmenopausal SUI incidence and CMI . To enhance the robustness of the findings , analyses of subgroups and assessments of interactions were performed . RESULTS : 542 postmenopausal women participated in the study , with 237 of them indicating the presence of symptoms associated with stress urinary incontinence . The findings from the multiple regression analysis consistently demonstrated a positive correlation between CMI and SUI in all adjusted models . In particular , a one-unit increase in CMI correlated with a 63% greater probability of encountering postmenopausal SUI in fully adjusted models ( OR = 63 , 95% CI : 07-48 ) . Additionally , a direct correlation was noted between CMI levels and the occurrence of SUI within this population . Subgroup analysis by the number of vaginal deliveries showed a significant interaction ( P for interaction = 0471 ) . CONCLUSIONS : The findings emphasize the importance of managing CMI levels to identify postmenopausal women at increased risk for SUI . This study confirms the strong predictive value of CMI for SUI in this population .
BACKGROUND : The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index serves as a crucial indicator for evaluating insulin resistance ( IR ) and cardiovascular risk among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) . Concurrently , hyperuricemia ( HUA ) strongly correlates with adverse cardiovascular outcomes . However , the prognostic value of the TyG index , particularly in patients exhibiting both conditions , remains inadequately defined . This study assessed the association between TyG index measurements and the incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACEs ) among patients simultaneously diagnosed with T2DM and HUA . METHODS : This retrospective , single-center cohort study included 628 patients diagnosed with both T2DM and HUA at the Chaohu Hospital ( Anhui Medical University ) between 2019 and Participants were stratified into tertiles based on their TyG index values . Kaplan-Meier survival curves with log-rank tests estimated the risk of MACEs , and Cox regression analyses calculated hazard ratios . The additional predictive contribution of the TyG index was evaluated using C statistics , net reclassification improvement ( NRI ) , and integrated discrimination improvement ( IDI ) metrics . RESULTS : During the 00 +/- 78 months follow-up period , 74 MACEs were recorded . A significant proportional relationship emerged between the TyG index and cardiovascular events-patients in the highest tertile demonstrated markedly increased risk compared with those in the lowest tertile ( HR = 45 , 95% CI 23-95 ) . A pivotal threshold was identified at TyG > 40 , beyond which each standard deviation increase corresponded to a 66% higher probability of MACEs ( HR = 66 , 95% CI 36-36 , P = 014 ) . Integrating the TyG index into traditional risk models significantly improved predictive performance ( C statistic increase : 64 --> 67 , P = 029 ; NRI = 14 , IDI = 02 , both P < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : The TyG index constitutes an autonomous MACE predictor specifically within the distinctive cohort of patients manifesting both T2DM and HUA . This study is the first to validate the TyG > 40 threshold in T2DM patients with HUA and identify a synergistic interaction between serum uric acid ( SUA ) and TyG , providing a novel stratification tool for managing dual metabolic disorders .
Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease remains a major global health burden . Current guidelines emphasize aggressive lipid-lowering strategies , particularly those that reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels . While effective in lowering cardiovascular risk , excessively low LDL-C may have unintended health consequences . LDL-C plays a critical physiological role in cellular structure and hormone synthesis . Emerging evidence links low LDL-C and high HDL-C with increased glaucoma risk . Statins , which are commonly used to lower LDL-C , may further increase this risk , raising concerns for patients with coronary artery disease . Low LDL-C has also been associated with gestational diabetes and intracranial hemorrhage , while statin therapy may contribute to new-onset diabetes mellitus . These findings highlight the need to reassess the " lower is better " paradigm . A patient-centered , risk-based approach to statin therapy is recommended . Large-scale randomized controlled trials are urgently needed to establish safe lipid thresholds and optimize therapeutic strategies .
BACKGROUND : Diabetes is the most prevalent metabolic disorder worldwide , imposing a significant economic burden on society . Prediabetes has not received as much attention as diabetes , and among its complications , osteoporosis has been relatively under-researched compared to cardiovascular disease . Recent studies have identified nine indices related to glucose and lipid metabolism that may enhance osteoporosis risk assessment in diabetic and prediabetic individuals . The research examined the osteoporosis risk prediction potential of these indices and developed a nomogram to enhance predictive performance . METHODS : 2 , 735 prediabetic and diabetic subjects were derived from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) dataset collected between 2011 and 2020 , then randomly assigned to development and validation cohorts in 7 : The predictive capacity of glucolipid metabolism-related indices for osteoporosis risk was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis . The least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) and multivariate logistic regression were used to identify predictors for constructing the risk model , which was visualized using a nomogram . The model ' s performance was further validated . RESULTS : All the glucolipid metabolism-related indices showed predictive ability , and the best-performing index was metabolic score for insulin resistance ( METS-IR ) . Multivariate logistic regression identified 5 predictors [Triglyceride-glucose index ( TyG ) , age , METS-IR , TyG-waist circumference , and TyG-body mass index] with good predictive performance . These predictors were selected to establish the nomogram . ROC curve , calibration plot , as well as decision curve analysis ( DCA ) collectively demonstrated fairly good predictive ability of the nomogram . CONCLUSIONS : Glucolipid metabolism-related indices are the predictors of osteoporosis risk . This newly developed nomogram based on glucolipid metabolism indices demonstrates optimal predictive accuracy for assessing combined osteoporosis risk in individuals with prediabetes and diabetes .
BACKGROUND : Dysregulated fatty acid metabolism is a key contributor to poor prognosis in glioma , and targeting cholesterol metabolism represents a promising therapeutic strategy . Apolipoprotein L4 ( APOL4 ) , a member of the Apolipoprotein L family , has been implicated in lipid metabolism , but its role in glioma remains unclear . METHODS : RNA-sequencing were performed to analysis gene expression under exogenous cholesterol treatment . Comprehensive bioinformatics analyses were performed using CGGA datasets to evaluate APOL4 expression , clinical correlations , and prognostic significance in GBM . In vitro experiments , including CRISPR-Cas9 mediated APOL4 knockdown , MTT assays , wound healing assays and immunofluorescence were performed to validate the oncogenic role of APOL Xenograft mouse models were employed to validate tumor growth in vivo . RESULTS : RNA-sequencing showed that exogenous cholesterol upregulated the expression of APOL4 in U-87 cells . Clinical database analysis revealed that APOL4 was significantly upregulated in human glioblastoma . Genetic depletion of APOL4 markedly suppressed glioblastoma cell proliferation in vitro and impaired xenograft tumor growth in vivo . Furthermore , APOL4 localized to late endosomes and lysosomes , where it likely facilitated the cytoplasmic transport of exogenous cholesterol , supporting tumor cell growth . CONCLUSIONS : Our study identifies APOL4 as a novel regulator of cholesterol trafficking in glioma cells , promoting glioblastoma progression . These findings highlight APOL4 as a potential therapeutic target for glioma treatment .
Pork quality is a key goal in commercial pig farming . Intramuscular fat ( IMF ) content in pigs serves as a critical determinant of meat quality , yet its regulatory mechanism remains unclear . In this study , two different pig breeds Chinese native breed Laiwu ( fatty-type ) and Yorkshire ( lean-type ) , were selected as research subjects . The molecular regulatory mechanisms affecting IMF content were investigated through integrated transcriptomic and lipidomic analysis . We identified critical genes , including ACC1 , FASN , ELOVL6 , SCD , and DGAT2 , and elucidated their synergistic interactions in promoting IMF deposition in Laiwu pigs . The findings reveal that the coordinated action of genes such as ACC1 and FASN promotes the increased production of palmitic acid , which was subsequently elongated and desaturated by ELOVL6 and SCD to form long-chain fatty acids necessary for TG synthesis . Additionally , DGAT2 facilitates the extensive synthesis of TG , which is stored in lipid droplets under the regulation of PLIN This increased triglyceride synthesis and storage capacities in Laiwu pigs , functioning as one of the key factors contributing to its high IMF content . The study highlights the importance of gene-lipid interactions in IMF deposition and offers novel insights into the genetic and molecular basis of IMF accumulation , particularly in fatty pig breeds like the Laiwu . Our research findings provide new directions for developing targeted genetic or nutritional interventions to enhance IMF content and improve meat quality .
INTRODUCTION : We sought to examine the associations of physical frailty ( PF ) and biopsychological frailty ( BF ) with dementia and mild cognitive impairment ( MCI ) among Chinese older adults and further to explore neuropathological mechanisms underlying the associations . METHODS : This population-based cross-sectional study included 5149 participants in the MIND-China baseline examination ; of these , we measured plasma amyloid-beta ( Abeta ) , neurofilament light chain ( NfL ) , and total tau in 1371 persons and phosphorylated tau 217 ( p-tau217 ) and glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) in 3387 persons . RESULTS : PF and BF were significantly associated with increased likelihoods of dementia , Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , vascular dementia ( VaD ) , and MCI . PF was significantly correlated with increased plasma p-tau217 , GFAP , and NfL , and reduced Abeta42/Abeta40 ratio ; BF was related to higher plasma total tau and NfL and lower Abeta42/Abeta40 ratio . PF in combination with demographics performed excellent in differentiating dementia from non-dementia ( area under the curve [AUC] = 83 ) . DISCUSSION : PF and BF are potential clinical biomarkers for dementia and MCI in older adults . Alzheimer ' s pathology , neuroinflammation , and neurodegeneration may underlie their associations . HIGHLIGHTS : Physical ( PF ) and biopsychosocial frailty ( BF ) were strongly associated with dementia and mild cognitive impairment ( MCI ) in rural Chinese older adults . Frailty , especially PF , was associated with increased plasma phosphorylated tau 217 ( p-tau217 ) , glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) , and neurofilament light chain ( NfL ) and a reduced plasma amyloid-beta ( Abeta ) 42/Abeta40 ratio . Alzheimer ' s pathology , neuroinflammation , and neurodegeneration may underlie the associations of frailty with dementia . PF , in combination with demographic factors , performed excellent ( area under the curve [AUC] = 83 ) in differentiating dementia from non-dementia in rural older adults .
Myocardial bridging ( MB ) , characterized by systolic coronary artery compression , alters coronary flow and may influence upstream atherosclerotic plaque morphology . We aimed to investigate the relationship between MB and morphological features of upstream culprit plaques in patients with acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) . We retrospectively analyzed 370 ACS patients who underwent optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) -guided PCI for a de novo culprit lesion in the proximal left anterior descending artery ( LAD ) . OCT images identified plaque rupture ( PR ) , classifying lesions into PR and intact fibrous cap ( IFC ) groups . The IFC group was further divided based on the presence of lipid-rich plaque ( LRP ) , defined as a plaque with a maximum lipid angle > 90 degrees . This study included 370 ACS patients ( mean age 2 +/- 3 years , 4% male ) . Angiographic evidence of MB was present in 6% ( 32/370 ) of patients prior to PCI and increased to 0% ( 63/370 ) post-PCI ; all MBs identified pre-PCI were also observed post-PCI . OCT identified 213 lesions with plaque rupture and 157 lesions with IFC ( of which 83 exhibited underlying LRP and 74 did not ) . The prevalence of post-PCI angiographically detected MB differed significantly among the OCT-defined morphological groups : 3% ( 24/213 ) in the PR group , 1% ( 15/83 ) in the IFC-LRP group , and 4% ( 24/74 ) in the IFC-non-LRP group ( P < 01 ) . No periprocedural myocardial injury occurred in the IFC-non-LRP group . In patients with ACS , the presence of MB was significantly associated with a lower likelihood of plaque rupture and LRP in the upstream culprit lesion as assessed by OCT .
INTRODUCTION : Eosinophilic esophagitis ( EoE ) is one of the main causes of esophageal food impaction ( EFI ) . Since only few endoscopists take biopsies during the emergency endoscopy at EFI presentation , as is recommended by current guidelines , a high number of patients will not have a proper diagnosis after EFI . Hence , we investigated the change of biopsy rates and the etiology of EFI over 11 years . METHODS : All patients presenting at the emergency department ( ED ) of a tertiary center with an EFI who underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy ( EGD ) between 2013 and 2023 were included . Clinical and endoscopic variables were analyzed retrospectively . We performed a binary logistic regression model to predict biopsy performance . RESULTS : A total of 180 EFI cases ( 67% male , median age 57 years ) were recorded between 2013 and Overall , esophageal biopsies were taken only in 18% without any increase over time . In patients >/= 50 years of age ( n = 108 ) , the etiology remained unknown in half of patients ( 48% ) , followed by gastroesophageal reflux disease ( GERD ; 23% ) and EoE ( 18% ) . However , in patients < 50 years of age , EoE was the main suspected etiology in 69% of cases . Biopsies were obtained in only 18% of all patients with suspected EoE . Age , gender , and the year of EFI were not associated with biopsy performance . However , the probability of biopsy increased by a factor of 03 in the presence of suspected EoE by the endoscopist . CONCLUSION : Despite an increasing awareness of EoE , the biopsy rate in EFI is rather low . Routine biopsies should be taken to shorten diagnostic delay .
Endosperm development is crucial for embryo growth and seed maturation . LEAFY COTYLEDON1 ( LEC1 ) , expressed in both endosperm and embryo , serves as a key regulator of seed development , orchestrating processes such as embryogenesis and seed maturation . LEC1 expression in the endosperm is detectable within a day after fertilization , yet its specific regulatory networks and developmental functions in this tissue remain unclear . To address this , we employed a modified INTACT system to isolate endosperm nuclei and performed ChIP-seq to map the genome-wide binding profile of LEC1 in developing endosperm . Integrating ChIP-seq with transcriptomic analyses , we uncover a critical role for LEC1 in regulating diverse biological pathways . Differential gene expression analysis in the endosperms of lec1 mutant and wild type shows substantial changes , particularly in genes involved in secondary cell wall biogenesis , photosynthesis , and lipid metabolism . Notably , LEC1 ' s regulatory networks in the endosperm shift significantly after cellularization , with distinct genes being activated in the cellular and degeneration stages . The absence of LEC1 causes significant alterations in endosperm metabolism , particularly affecting storage lipid fatty acid composition . These findings provide insights into the essential role of LEC1 in endosperm development and its broader impact on seed formation .
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) are dynamic cellular organelles that regulate lipid metabolism and various cellular processes . Their functionality relies on a dynamic proteome and precise spatiotemporal interactions with other organelles , making LD biology highly complex . Tools that enable the sequestration and release of LDs within their intracellular environment could synchronize their behavior , providing deeper insights into their functions . To address this need , we developed Controlled Trapping of LDs ( ControLD ) , a new method for manipulating LD dynamics . This approach uses engineered condensates to reversibly sequester LDs , temporarily halting their activity . Upon release , the LDs resume their normal functions . ControLD effectively disrupts LD remobilization during metabolic demands and prevents the formation of LD-mitochondria contact sites , which are re-established upon condensate dissociation . ControLD represents a powerful tool for advancing the study of LD biology and opens avenues for investigating and manipulating other cellular organelles .
BACKGROUND : Sensitisation to Lipid Transfer Proteins ( LTP ) , usually ascertained by undertaking a test to the peach LTP allergen Pru p 3 , is common but does not always indicate LTP allergy . Improving the diagnostic process would ensure the correct diagnosis and management of this complex condition . OBJECTIVES : To determine the diagnostic value of Pru p 3 and other LTP component allergens in UK adults . METHODS : A retrospective review was undertaken of adults referred to the Allergy Unit at the Royal Brompton & Harefield Hospitals ( RBHT ) London ( UK ) , between 2012 and 2022 who were sensitised to Pru p Those with a final diagnosis of LTP allergy were compared to those sensitized to Pru p 3 but not diagnosed with LTP allergy . RESULTS : Of 285 patients with a positive Pru p 3 , 157 ( 55% ) were diagnosed with LTP allergy . LTP allergic patients were more likely to have a higher level of Pru p 3 , and a lower level of total IgE . The ratio of Pru p 3 : total IgE was the most accurate diagnostic marker of LTP allergy , with a receiver operating characteristics AUC of A diagnosis of LTP allergy was also significantly associated with sensitisation to the LTP in peanut ( Ara h 9 , p < 001 ) , and hazelnut ( Cor a 8 , p < 001 ) . CONCLUSION : Sensitisation to Pru p 3 may not always indicate an LTP allergy . Our data suggests that the Pru p 3 : total IgE ratio , and sensitisation to Ara h 9 and Cor a 8 can support the diagnosis of LTP allergy in individuals sensitised to Pru p
Ocular cancers , though rare , present significant therapeutic challenges due to their aggressive nature , high metastatic potential and anatomical constraints that limit drug delivery . Conventional therapies , including radiation , enucleation , and chemotherapy , often result in significant side effects and suboptimal outcomes . Recent advancements in nanomedicine offer promising alternatives , utilizing NPs for targeted drug delivery , gene therapy , photodynamic therapy , and brachytherapy . Nanocarriers such as liposomes , polymeric NPs , and lipid-based NPs improve drug bioavailability , reduce systemic toxicity , and enhance treatment efficacy . Additionally , gold and silver NPs serve as effective radiosensitizers , optimizing radiation therapy . Preclinical and clinical studies indicate the potential of nanomedicine-based approaches to revolutionize ocular cancer treatment . However , challenges remain , including optimizing nanoparticle formulations and addressing regulatory hurdles . This review underscores the transformative role of nanotechnology in major and deadly ocular cancers mainly Uveal Melanoma and Retinoblasoma and emphasized cutting-edge drug delivery systems poised to improve therapeutic precision , minimize side effects , and improve patient survival and quality of life .
The photosynthetic cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp . PCC 6803 offers a promising sustainable solution for simultaneous CO fixation and compound bioproduction . While various heterologous products have now been synthesised in Synechocystis , limited genetic tools hinder further strain engineering for efficient production . Here , we present a versatile CRISPR activation ( CRISPRa ) system for Synechocystis , enabling robust multiplexed activation of both heterologous and endogenous targets . Following tool characterisation , we applied CRISPRa to explore targets influencing biofuel production , specifically isobutanol ( IB ) and 3-methyl-1-butanol ( 3M1B ) , demonstrating a proof-of-concept approach to identify key reactions constraining compound biosynthesis . Notably , individual upregulation of target genes , such as pyk1 , resulted in up to 4-fold increase in IB/3M1B formation while synergetic effects from multiplexed targeting further enhanced compound production , highlighting the value of this tool for rapid metabolic mapping . Interestingly , activation efficacy did not consistently predict increases in compound formation , suggesting complex regulatory interactions influencing bioproduction . This work establishes a CRISPRa system for targeted upregulation in cyanobacteria , providing an adaptable platform for high-throughput screening , metabolic pathway optimisation and functional genomics . Our CRISPRa system provides a crucial advance in the genetic toolbox available for Synechocystis and will facilitate innovative applications in both fundamental research and metabolic engineering in cyanobacteria .
This study uses two-sample MR analysis with GWAS summary statistics to evaluate the causal relationship between metabolic syndrome and low back pain . A two-sample Mendelian randomization analysis used GWAS summary statistics for low back pain from the FinnGen database and metabolic syndrome data , including waist circumference , hypertension , fasting blood glucose , HDL cholesterol , and triglyceride levels . Various methods like inverse variance weighted , MR-Egger , weighted median , and mode assessed the causal relationship , with sensitivity analyses addressing heterogeneity and pleiotropy . Our analysis found a statistically significant causal association between essential hypertension ( OR 38 , 95% CI 42-96 ; P ( adj ) = 002 ) , metabolic syndrome ( OR 05 , 95% CI 01-10 ; P ( adj ) = 023 ) and waist circumference ( OR 49 , 95% CI 32-68 ; P ( adj ) < 001 ) and low back pain ( OR 41 , 95% CI 30-53 , P ( adj ) < 001 ) . In contrast , fasting blood glucose ( FBG ) , HDL cholesterol , and triglycerides showed no significant associations with low back pain across all MR methods . The results of sensitivity analyses indicated that the heterogeneity and pleiotropy were unlikely to disturb the causal estimate . Our study indicates that increased essential hypertension , metabolic syndrome and waist circumference is causally associated with a higher risk of low back pain . Interventions targeting metabolic syndrome components , particularly blood pressure control and weight management , could help reduce the risk of low back pain . Further research is needed to explore the underlying biological pathways linking these metabolic factors to low back pain .
Previous studies have mainly explored the effects of body mass index ( BMI ) and triglyceride-glucose index ( TyG index ) on cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) separately or by examining the composite parameter ( TyG-BMI ) formed by multiplying the two and its association with CVD . However , few studies have investigated the combined effect of BMI categories and the TyG index on CVD . This study aimed to determine the association of BMI categories combined with the TyG index in new-onset CVD . A total of 94 , 002 participants were included from the Kailuan study . Their BMI combined with the TyG index was categorized into six groups : Low-BMI/Low-TyG , Middle-BMI/Low-TyG , High-BMI/Low-TyG , Low-BMI/High-TyG , Middle-BMI/High-TyG , and High-BMI/High-TyG . A multifactorial Cox proportional hazards model was used to analyze the longitudinal association between BMI combined with the TyG index and new-onset CVD events . During a follow-up period of 95 +/- 59 years , 9791 new CVD events were recorded . After adjusting for confounding factors such as sex , age , smoking , drinking , physical activity , systolic blood pressure , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , uric acid , high-sensitivity C-reactive protein , antihypertensive drugs , hypoglycemic drugs , and lipid-lowering drugs , Cox regression analysis showed that the risk of CVD events was 52% higher in the High-BMI/High-TyG group ( HR : 52 ; 95% CI 42-64 ) compared to the Low-BMI/Low-TyG group . The combination of high BMI ( >/= 0 ) and high TyG index ( > 58 ) significantly increases individual CVD risk . This study suggests that the combination of BMI and the TyG index may better help identify individuals at risk of developing CVD .
Osteosarcoma ( OS ) is a prevalent form of bone cancer among younger people , particularly children and adolescents . Ferroptosis is a non-apoptotic cell death identified by increased levels of iron-dependent lipid peroxidation . This study was designed to develop a prognostic model based on differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) associated with ferroptosis and examined the functions of ferroptosis-related genes ( FRGs ) in OS cells . Gene expression profiles in OS were retrieved from TARGET and GEO databases , while GTEx provided data for healthy tissues . Prognostic genes were identified through bioinformatics analysis and data integration . In vitro experiments , cell cultures , qRT-PCR , immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) , cell transfection , Edu assays , DHE assays , migration , and invasion assays validated the prognostic model and explored the functional role of FRGs in OS cells . Univariate Cox regression analysis demonstrated that 12 DEGs were differentially expressed . Based on four FRGs in OS constructed a risk-scoring model . The high-risk ( HR ) group showed a considerably lower OS rate than the low-risk ( LR ) group ( p < 001 in the TARGET and p < 05 in the GSE21257 cohorts ) . A risk score was validated as an independent predictive factor for OS via multivariate Cox regression . Functional analysis shows that these FRGs affect the occurrence of ferroptosis by influencing the intracellular ROS levels and play a regulatory role in the proliferation , migration , and infiltration of OS cells . The findings suggested that four FRGs demonstrate significant prognostic value in OS , offering potential insights into novel therapeutic targets for OS treatment .
Parental metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) is associated with increased cardiometabolic risk in offspring , yet the distinct impacts of maternal versus paternal MetS remain poorly understood . Evidence on sex-specific susceptibility during adolescence is particularly limited , despite this being a critical period for the development of chronic metabolic conditions . Using a comprehensive dataset of 5 , 245 patients selected from a nationally representative database , we examined the differential association of maternal and paternal MetS with cardiometabolic outcomes in adolescent offspring and their variation by offspring sex . Overall , paternal MetS was associated with higher triglyceride and lower HDL cholesterol in male offspring . In contrast , maternal MetS was linked to higher triglyceride levels in both sexes , with additional associations with elevated systolic blood pressure and lower HDL cholesterol only in males . The odds of MetS and its components were most elevated in male adolescents in both paternal and maternal MetS . In conclusion , paternal MetS appeared to exert a stronger influence , particularly in male adolescents . Our findings suggest that both parental and offspring sexes modify the intergenerational transmission of metabolic risk ; it is crucial to consider both parental and offspring sexes for effective screening and the prevention of MetS .
This study aimed to evaluate the stability and quality enhancement of Acorus tatarinowii and Atractylodes lancea volatile oils ( ATaAL-VO ) and their beta-cyclodextrin encapsulated and Pickering emulsion forms under ozone exposure . Under an ozone environment , ATaAL-VO were subjected to three treatments : raw oil , beta-cyclodextrin encapsulated oil , and pickering emulsion . Peroxide values were quantified . GC-MS was employed to identify compositional variances , while t-tests were used to identify compounds with significant quantitative differences . PCA charts were generated using OmicShare , and line diagrams were created with Rmisc and reshape OmicShare was also utilized to construct Upset diagrams for filtering qualitative differential compounds , and charts illustrating newly formed and disappeared qualitative differential compounds were composed . Principal compounds ' box diagrams were crafted through reshape2 and ggplot The beta-cyclodextrin and pickering emulsion groups exhibited lower oxidation levels compared to the original oil group after ozone exposure . The pickering emulsion and beta-cyclodextrin encapsulation groups both demonstrated a marked improvement in the stability of the majority of volatile components . The stability and quality of ATaAL-VO can be markedly enhanced through beta-cyclodextrin encapsulation or Pickering emulsion preparation , with the latter offering distinct advantages .
Lipoxygenases ( LOXs ) are key enzymes in plant lipid metabolism and stress responses , yet their genomic organization and functional dynamics in Luffa aegyptiaca-a species of culinary , medicinal , and ornamental importance-remain unexplored . Here , we present the first genome-wide identification and characterization of the LOX gene family in L . aegyptiaca , revealing 29 LOX genes , including 14 members of 13S-lipoxygenases ( 13-LOX ) and 15 members of 9S-lipoxygenases ( 9-LOX ) , respectively . Notably , tandem duplication events shaped the expansion of LOX genes , with 24 genes clustered in two loci , suggesting functional diversification to enhance environmental adaptability . Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated evolutionary conservation of LOX genes across Cucurbitaceae species , while collinearity analysis highlighted conserved genomic organization . Promoter cis-element profiling identified stress- and hormone-responsive motifs , implicating LOX genes in developmental and stress regulatory networks . Tissue-specific expression patterns revealed 18 LOX genes predominantly expressed in tendril , fruit , root , and male flower , linking them to organ-specific physiological roles . Crucially , under heat stress , 9 out of 11 expressed LOX genes were significantly downregulated , indicating their potential role in thermal stress adaptation through metabolic reconfiguration . This study provides foundational insights into the LOX family ' s contribution to L . aegyptiaca ' s resilience and offers genetic targets for breeding strategies to improve stress tolerance in cucurbit crops .
The current study was conducted to compare the effect of beak trimming and feather spraying with bitter taste compound ( almond oil ) on feather pecking behavior and duck welfare . A total of 63 healthy male 2-weeks-old Muscovy ducklings were randomly allocated to 3 groups . The first group was the control group ( no beak trimming and no feather spraying ) , ducks in the second group were trimmed by scissors at 3 weeks of age , and birds in the third group were sprayed with bitter almond oil weekly from the age of 3 weeks . Growth performance parameters were evaluated . Some behavioral patterns were recorded by using focal sampling . Feather condition score and serum cortisol level were evaluated . At the end of the experiment , bills were collected for histopathological examination . The results showed that beak trimming with scissors had no negative effects on Muscovy ducks ' growth performance and significantly lowered feather pecking bouts resulting in good feather conditions . Feather spraying with bitter almond oil had adverse effects on growth performance , obviously increased feather pecking resulted in deterioration of feather quality and markedly increased the level of cortisol ( p < 001 ) . Bill morphological analysis with hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E ) and S100 stains illustrated that the trimmed beak had an increase in the amount of connective tissue ( scar tissue formation ) , numerous blood vessels , fewer nerve bundles , and no neuroma formation . In the Muscovy ducks ' sector , beak trimming with scissors at 3 weeks of age is good practice to control feather pecking and cannibalism without adverse effect on the welfare of ducks .
Jujube is a widely consumed fruit with a long history in traditional medicine . Numerous studies have explored its potential effects on various health parameters . However , the overall quality of this evidence and the specific impact of jujube on metabolic syndrome remain unclear . This meta-analysis investigates the effect of jujube on body mass index , serum lipid profile , blood sugar levels , and other metabolic factors and blood indicators . The databases Web of Science , Scopus , PubMed , Google Scholar , and SID were searched up to September Our review included various clinical studies written in English and Persian that focused on the effect of jujube on lipid profiles . In vivo , in vitro , review studies , book chapters , observational studies , and low-quality studies based on critical appraisal tools were excluded from the analysis . A total of seven studies involving 483 participants were included in this review . Jujube significantly reduced BMI and TG , and also markedly decreased FBS in subjects with type 2 diabetes . Furthermore , the results varied significantly based on subgroups defined by dosage , treatment duration , and disease type . Notably , LDL and total cholesterol levels showed a significant decrease within some of these subgroups . However , HDL , AST , and ALT did not have significant changes . The findings suggest that jujube may exert beneficial effects on metabolic diseases , particularly in patients with hyperlipidemia and type 2 diabetes . However , the overall quality of the evidence is limited , and further research is needed to confirm these findings and elucidate the mechanisms underlying jujube ' s effects . Impact of jujube fruit on serum lipid profile , glycemic index , and liver function : a systematic review and meta-analysis .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer mortality , characterized by aggressive progression and poor prognosis . Pathological angiogenesis in HCC is closely linked to metabolic reprogramming , particularly concerning fatty acid metabolism . The interplay between fatty acid metabolism and ferroptosis , a type of cell death driven by lipid peroxidation , is emerging as a crucial area of study . The transcription factor SOX4 is known to be overexpressed in various cancers , including HCC , and may play a key role in these processes . We assessed SOX4 expression in HCC using clinical samples and data from online databases . Next-generation RNA sequencing was employed to explore the effects of SOX4 on fatty acid metabolism , focusing on the CHREBP pathway . Functional assays , including lipid peroxidation and angiogenesis studies , were conducted to investigate the role of SOX4 in regulating ferroptosis and angiogenesis in HCC . SOX4 was found to be significantly upregulated in HCC and associated with enhanced angiogenesis . Mechanistically , SOX4 activated the CHREBP/SCD1 pathway , leading to increased production of monounsaturated fatty acids , which in turn inhibited ferroptosis . This suppression of ferroptosis contributed to the promotion of angiogenesis and tumor progression in HCC . In conclusion , SOX4 reprograms fatty acid metabolism via the CHREBP/SCD1 pathway , thereby inhibiting ferroptosis and promoting angiogenesis in HCC . These findings suggest that targeting the SOX4-CHREBP axis could represent a novel therapeutic strategy for HCC .
Transfer RNA ( tRNA ) modifications are crucial for cellular homeostasis and organ function , exhibiting complex stress responses dependent on modification type and location . Ferroptosis , a significant mechanism in ischemic myocardial injury , remains poorly understood at the tRNA epitranscriptome level . In this study , we utilized a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) based RNA mapping platform to examine dynamic changes in 40 tRNA modifications within a ferroptosis-associated myocardial injury model . Notably , we identified significant in vitro and in vivo alterations in eight tRNA modifications , particularly a marked downregulation of taurine modifications ( taum5U and taum5s2U ) at the tRNA anticodon ' s 34th position , suggesting mitochondrial tRNA ( mt-tRNATrp , mt-tRNAGln ) reprogramming . Further analysis revealed that taurine modification depletion caused by RSL3 ( a ferroptosis inducer ) was attributed to taurine consumption and the downregulation of MTO1 and GTPBP Depleting these taurine modifications exacerbated ferroptosis in vitro , while restoration protected cardiomyocytes by decreasing reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxides . Silencing of MTO1 and GTPBP3 in H9C2 cells could also enhance RSL3 potency but diminish the protective effect of taurine . Our findings highlight the pivotal role of taurine modifications on mitochondrial tRNAs in determining cellular fate during cardiomyocyte ferroptosis . This study offers new insights into ferroptosis-associated ischemic myocardial injury at the tRNA epitranscriptome level .
BACKGROUND : Cunninghamella bertholletiae ( C . bertholletiae ) , a rare yet highly virulent species within the Mucorales order , predominantly affects individuals with compromised immune systems . Disseminated infections caused by this pathogen frequently lead to severe complications , underscoring the necessity for prompt diagnosis and aggressive therapeutic interventions . Invasive fungal diseases ( IFDs ) continue to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality among kidney transplant recipients , characterized by elevated incidence and mortality rates . The early and precise identification of fungal pathogens is crucial for optimizing patient outcomes . CASE PRESENTATION : This report presents a case study of a 37-year-old male kidney transplant recipient who developed a disseminated C . bertholletiae infection from a latent lower limb lesion . Initially , he showed symptoms of high fever and dyspnea , leading to diagnoses of sepsis , severe pneumonia , acute respiratory distress syndrome , and allograft dysfunction . After surgery , he had recurrent pleural effusion and worsening pulmonary nodules . Metagenomic next-generation sequencing ( mNGS ) confirmed C . bertholletiae infection , and histopathology revealed mucormycosis with vascular invasion , thrombosis , and tissue necrosis . The patient underwent a 13-month antifungal treatment with amphotericin B lipid complex , posaconazole , and isavuconazole . CONCLUSION : This case highlights the essential role of histopathology and mNGS in early detection of rare IFDs and stresses the need for a multidisciplinary approach combining surgery with antifungal therapy . The effective management of disseminated C . bertholletiae infection using a triple antifungal regimen offers important insights for future cases , underscoring the importance of early diagnosis and personalized treatment in immunocompromised patients .
Mini-tablets ( MTs ) allow for dosage adjustments according to children ' s weight and age . However , it is difficult to manufacture MTs with robust physical properties , and various formulation techniques are required . Adding cellulose nanofiber ( CNF ) , a highly functional biomass material , to MTs improved the hardness and disintegration ; however , the large variation in the weight and drug content of the resulting MTs remained a challenge . Therefore , this study analyzed the physical properties of CNF-containing MTs of different particle sizes and evaluated the effect of the particle size on MT manufacturing . CNF , with an average particle size of approximately 300 microm , was pulverized to prepare CNF , averaging 100 microm . The formulation included CNF ( 10 , 30 , and 50% ) , lactose hydrate , paracetamol , and magnesium stearate . The pharmaceutical powders mixed were loaded into a rotary tablet press equipped with a 3-mm multiple-tip tooling and compressed at 2 , 5 , and 8 kN forces . CNF-containing MTs were manufactured via direct powder compression , and they showed lower variations in weight and drug content than those containing CNF . The tensile strength of MTs containing CNF was smaller than that of those containing CNF ; however , a strength of >/=1 MPa ( corresponding to >/=30 N hardness of a regular tablet ) was obtained by setting the compression force to >/=5 kN . The MTs containing 30% CNF disintegrated in </=30 s , regardless of the compression force . Thus , using smaller CNF particle sizes enabled the manufacturing of an orally disintegrating MT with adequate hardness and disintegration properties while also minimizing variations in MT weight and drug content . FAU - Nakamura , Shohei
The aspiration or inhalation of lipid substances can cause lung injury , including chemical pneumonitis and exogenous lipoid pneumonia . We herein report a case of acute lung injury caused by kerosene inhalation in a tent sauna . A patient developed dyspnea with respiratory failure two hours after igniting a wood-burning stove with kerosene . High-resolution computed tomography revealed widespread ground-glass opacities , and bronchoalveolar lavage revealed lipid-laden macrophages . Systemic corticosteroid treatment led to a rapid improvement . Although kerosene is generally safe at room temperature , its vaporization in high-temperature environments may increase the risk of lung injury through inhalation . FAU - Yamanaka , Marimu
AIMS : Intensive lipid-lowering therapy is recommended for secondary prevention of cardiovascular events after acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) . However , the prescription rate of PCSK9 inhibitors ( PCSK9is ) remains low among patients not achieving low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol target levels . METHODS : A retrospective analysis was conducted on 194 patients with AMI who were discharged alive and followed up as outpatients at our institution between October 2022 and October In October 2023 , we implemented the Physician-led Strike Early-Strike Strong Lipid-Lowering Protocol ( Physician-led Protocol ) to enhance lipid management . Patients were divided into two groups : pre-protocol ( October 2022-September 2023 ) and post-protocol ( October 2023-October 2024 ) . Patient background characteristics , lipid-lowering therapies , and LDL cholesterol levels in the chronic phase were compared between the two groups . The outcomes included post-discharge PCSK9i initiation rates and chronic-phase LDL levels . RESULTS : While the prescription rates of strong statins and ezetimibe were similar between the groups , PCSK9i use was significantly higher in the post-protocol group than in the pre-protocol group ( 3% vs . 8% , p = 002 ) . Furthermore , the chronic LDL levels were significantly lower in the post-protocol group than in the pre-protocol group ( 0 vs . 0 mg/dL , p = 007 ) . Multivariate logistic regression showed that initial LDL levels and PCSK9i use were associated with achieving chronic LDL levels 55 mg/dL . Among eligible patients in the post-protocol group , 4% received PCSK9is . CONCLUSIONS : The physician-led protocol increased PCSK9i prescriptions , achieving a median chronic LDL level of 51 mg/dL . FAU - Arai , Riku
Biodegradable cellulose-based materials promise an alternative to conventional plastics , yet combining high performance with environmental sustainability is challenging . Here , we introduce cellulose nanofiber ( CNF ) films esterified with short-chain fatty acids , systematically optimizing chain length to boost barrier properties while retaining biodegradability . Esterification increased tensile strength by ~30 MPa through hydrophobic interactions , reduced the water vapor transmission rate over 200-fold , and decreased the oxygen transmission rate nearly six-fold compared to petroleum-based materials . Furthermore , the films were optimized for spray coating , enabling uniform deposition and scalability . Notably , they fully decomposed within 16 weeks under composting conditions . We hypothesize that the degree of esterification and fatty acid chain length govern the balance between barrier performance and biodegradability , as validated through structural , mechanical , and barrier analyses . These findings demonstrate a rational design strategy for functionalized CNFs , advancing high-performance , biodegradable materials for next-generation sustainable applications , including food packaging .
The growing interest in RNA-based therapeutics has positioned small interfering RNA ( siRNA ) as a promising tool for gene silencing with high specificity and efficacy . However , the successful clinical application of siRNA therapies requires efficient delivery systems to overcome extracellular and intracellular barriers . Chitosan , a naturally derived polysaccharide , has gained significant attention as a non-viral vector due to its biodegradability , biocompatibility , mucoadhesive properties , and capacity to enhance cellular uptake . These attributes make chitosan an attractive alternative to lipid-based nanoparticles , which currently dominate siRNA delivery platforms . Recent advancements in chitosan-based nanoformulations , including chemical modifications and functionalization strategies , have improved siRNA stability , targeting efficiency , and transfection potential , addressing key limitations such as low bioavailability and immunogenicity . Despite these advances , challenges remain in achieving optimal release kinetics , scalability , and consistent therapeutic efficacy . Future research efforts will focus on engineering chitosan derivatives with enhanced physicochemical properties , integrating multifunctional nanocarriers , and refining formulation strategies to bridge the gap between preclinical research and clinical translation . The continued development of chitosan-based siRNA therapeutics holds significant potential for advancing precision medicine and expanding treatment options for a variety of diseases , including cancer , metabolic disorders , and inflammatory conditions .
OBJECTIVE : The study investigated the association between the triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index ( a surrogate measure for insulin resistance ) and all-cause and cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) mortality among individuals with cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic syndrome . DESIGN : Population-based cohort study . SETTING : US National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey , 1999- PARTICIPANTS : A total of 13 585 participants who had valid data were included in this analysis . OUTCOME MEASURES : Data from the participants were linked to death certificates to obtain follow-up mortality information from the National Death Index . Cox proportional hazards models were used to assess the associations between the TyG index and all-cause and CVD mortality . Non-linear associations and threshold effects were investigated using restricted cubic spline regression and a two-piecewise Cox proportional hazards model . RESULTS : During a median follow-up of 99 months , a total of 2876 ( 24% ) deaths occurred , of which 961 were attributed to CVD . Each one-unit increase in the TyG index was associated with an 9% relative increase in the hazard of all-cause mortality ( HR 089 , 95% CI 013 to 171 ) and a 5% relative increase in the hazard of CVD mortality ( HR 195 , 95% CI 027 to 390 ) . Non-linear relationships were identified between the TyG index and all-cause and CVD mortality , with threshold values of 97 and 81 for all-cause and CVD mortality , respectively . A significant interaction effect was found between age and the TyG index . CONCLUSION : There was a U-shaped relationship between the TyG index and both all-cause and CVD mortality . The thresholds of the TyG index may serve as potential tools for managing populations with cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic syndrome to reduce mortality risk .
Drug-resistant bacterial and biofilm infections , vascularization disorders , and inadequate hemostasis are the key factors that limit chronic diabetic wound healing . Here , we construct a microenvironment-responsive multifunctional platinum-armed iron-based MOF nanocomposite ( Pt@FeMOF ) to repair chronic wounds . Under acidic conditions ( biofilm environment ) , Pt@FeMOF nanoparticles ( NPs ) produce reactive oxygen species via a synergistic Fenton reaction to eliminate both drug-resistant bacteria and their biofilms . Furthermore , based on transcriptomic results and ferroptosis marker evaluation , we reveal that the Pt@FeMOF NPs induce ferroptosis in bacteria via lipid peroxidation , GSH depletion , iron overload , and disruption of arginine metabolism . In addition , the Pt@FeMOF NPs promote vascular repair , possibly by inhibiting oxidative stress-mediated endothelial cell senescence in the microenvironment to restore angiogenesis . Finally , the Pt@FeMOF NPs are loaded into GelMA cryogels to further improve their hemostasis and exudate absorption . In vivo experiments demonstrate that Pt@FeMOF NPs-loaded cryogel dressings effectively promote MRSA- and P . aeruginosa-infected diabetic wounds . This ferroptosis-like antibacterial strategy may provide novel insights into the treatment of drug-resistant bacterial infections and fight against biofilm-associated infections . The proposed tactic provides a promising approach for the clinical treatment of diabetic wounds .
Bacteria employ a wide range of RNA-based regulatory systems to adapt to various environmental stressors . Among these , small non-coding RNAs ( sRNAs ) have emerged as critical regulators of gene expression . These compact RNA molecules modulate numerous cellular functions , including stress adaptation , biofilm development , and virulence . By acting primarily at the post-transcriptional level , sRNAs enable bacteria to swiftly adjust gene expression in response to external challenges . One key mechanism of sRNA action is translational repression , which includes the regulation of toxin-antitoxin systems pathways essential for bacterial persistence and antibiotic resistance . Additionally , sRNAs orchestrate the expression of genes involved in biofilm formation , enhancing surface adhesion , extracellular matrix production , and resistance to antimicrobial agents . Bacterial outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ) also play a significant role in stress adaptation and intercellular communication . These vesicles transport a complex cargo of proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids , including sRNAs . The transfer of sRNAs through OMVs can modulate the physiology of neighboring bacterial cells as well as host cells , highlighting their role in cross-kingdom signaling . sRNAs serve as versatile and potent regulatory elements that support bacterial survival under hostile conditions . Advancing our understanding of sRNA-mediated networks offers promising avenues for uncovering bacterial pathogenesis and developing innovative antimicrobial therapies .
Heatstroke encephalopathy is a universal primary manifestation of heatstroke . Early brain injury caused by heatstroke may lead to long-term cognitive impairment in survivors , yet it frequently evades detection by standard diagnostic techniques . Thus , the discovery of reliable biomarkers for early brain injury detection is necessary . In this study , CISD2 downregulation in HT-22 cells was observed following hyperthermia treatment by using transcriptomics analysis . Subsequent mechanistic investigations revealed that CISD2 downregulation triggeres ferroptosis via AMPK-dependent BECN1 phosphorylation at Ser93 , while CISD2 overexpression confers ferroptosis resistance in HT-22 cells at 41 degrees C . Furthermore , the downregulation of CISD2 expression and ferroptotic alterations were firmly observed in hippocampal tissues of mice during the early stage of heatstroke , and the overexpression of CISD2 by injecting lentivirus overexpressing CISD2 into the hippocampus of mice significantly alleviated heatstroke-induced neuronal loss , and meanwhile , the density of dendritic spines in the CA1 pyramidal neurons of the mice was effectively preserved . Moreover , knockdown of the CISD2 in the hippocampus exacerbated the loss of hippocampal neurons and the reduction of dendritic spine density . In summary , our results illustrated that CISD2 plays a pivotal role in preserving normal hippocampal function by regulating lipid peroxidation and iron homeostasis of heatstroke conditions . These finds provide novel insights into the mechanisms underlying heatstroke-induced cognitive deficits and offer potential strategies for improving risk prediction of heatstroke encephalopathy .
The SWI/SNF ( switch/sucrose non-fermentable ) related BAF ( BRG1/BRM-related factor ) chromatin remodeling complex subunit ATPase 4 ( SMARCA4 ) is a gene with a high mutation frequency in the SWI/SNF complex . It plays a role as an ATP-dependent catalytic subunit , participates in remodeling chromatin structure and regulation of gene expression , and is closely related to the poor prognosis of malignant tumors . It is imperative to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the distinctive biological functions and mechanisms by which SMARCA4 contributes to cancer development and to devise targeted therapeutic strategies . Despite numerous studies associating SMARCA4 with the regulation of essential genes , ferroptosis , autophagy , lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress , the precise mechanisms of SMARCA4 in tumors remain unclear . Patients with SMARCA4 mutations exhibit a poor prognosis and demonstrate limited responsiveness to surgery , targeted therapies , immunotherapy , and chemotherapies . Thus , SMARCA4 emerges as a promising biomarker and therapeutic target . However , the development of more effective precision therapy tools remains an urgent unmet need . The unique molecular characteristics of SMARCA4 pose significant challenges for targeted drug development . Notably , the discovery of inhibitors targeting SMARCA4 synthetic lethal partners and associated pathways has marked a breakthrough in this field . Monotherapies directed against SMARCA4 face several limitations , including drug resistance , suboptimal objective response rates , and dose-limiting toxicities . Consequently , the exploration of combinatorial therapeutic strategies for SMARCA4 deficiency populations represents a critical direction for future clinical translation .
It has been suggested that caution should be exercised when using HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor ( statin ) in combination with a drug of the fibrate family because of the potentially elevated risk of development of hepatic function impairment and myopathy . We conducted this present study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of treatment with a statin plus pemafibrate ( a new fibrate ) versus treatment with pemafibrate alone in Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus . In this study , a total of 23 Japanese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were divided into two groups : a group that received pemafibrate alone and a group that received pemafibrate+a statin for a period of 3 years , respectively . Blood levels of lipids and hepatic and renal function parameters were measured before and one and three years after the start of treatment . The pemafibrate-alone group showed reduction of the blood lipid levels , but no adverse changes of the hepatic or renal function parameters were observed . Similarly , the combined pemafibrate+statin treatment group also showed lowering of the blood lipid levels without any adverse changes of the parameters . Improvement of the blood lipid profile was observed in patients who received prolonged treatment with pemafibrate . Similarly , improvement of the blood lipid profile without any adverse changes of the hepatic or renal function parameters was also observed in patients who received prolonged combined pemafibrate+statin treatment . Thus , our findings confirm the safety and efficacy of pemafibrate administered either alone or in combination with a statin .
Quantitative characterization of the transformations of subcellular molecular environment in response to fentanyl exposure in human microglia and astrocytes is warranted to provide insight into the regulation of neuroinflammatory responses and neural survival in the scenario of opiate drug addiction . Cytoplasmic lipid droplets ( LD ) act as depot for exogeneous hydrophobic molecules , such as fentanyl , which can lead to increased drug accumulation and alteration of their metabolism . In the present work , we have used an emerging Ramanomics technique that combines quantitative micro-Raman spectrometry with biomolecular component analysis to unravel fentanyl induced changes in concentrations of phospholipids , sterols , glycogen , sphingomyelin , phosphocholine as well as RNA and proteins , in the LDs of microglia and astrocytes . To our knowledge , this study represents , the first report on the effect of fentanyl overdose in the biomolecular composition of distinct organelles in single live cells , towards therapeutics advances to treat fentanyl addiction and development of diagnostic assays of illicit opiate abuse .
Subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) represents a stroke subtype that can lead to prolonged cognitive deficits as well as death or disability . Prior investigation has suggested that CoQ10 analogs can mitigate oxidative stress and inflammation and promote mitochondrial biogenesis in the context of brain injury and neurodegenerative disorders . However , the precise mechanisms underlying early brain injury ( EBI ) following SAH remain incompletely understood , and the detailed molecular processes have yet to be completely clarified . This investigation examined the neuroprotective properties of a CoQ10 analog concerning EBI post-SAH and identified potential mechanistic pathways . Our findings indicate that SAH led to alterations in innate and learned behaviors in aged C57BL/6J mice while also triggering ferroptosis and neuroinflammation within hippocampal neurons . Additionally , SAH was associated with reduced ferroptosis-related proteins , exacerbation of iron accumulation , elevation of lipid ROS , and decreased FSP1 , HO-1 , and NQO1 levels . The CoQ10 analog idebenone ( IDB ) demonstrated a capacity to alleviate EBI , as evidenced by improvements in both innate and learned behaviors , alongside a reduction in ferroptosis-related gene/protein expression . Silencing of FSP1 exacerbated EBI , ferroptosis , and neuroinflammation , and partially counteracted the neuroprotective effects of the CoQ10 analog . These results suggest that IDB may enhance the recovery from SAH-induced EBI in aged mice by modulating FSP1 protein stability via NMT-mediated N-myristoylation , thereby inhibiting both ferroptosis and neuroinflammation . The potential therapeutic application of IDB as a clinical intervention for EBI following SAH is also highlighted .
The cryopreservation of rooster sperm plays a pivotal role in artificial insemination programs . However , the process of sperm freezing and thawing often leads to damage , affecting the functional and biological properties of sperm cells . Losartan , a potent antioxidant and an angiotensin II type 1 receptor blocker , has been shown to modulate mitochondrial activity and exhibit antioxidant properties . This study was conducted using semen collected from 10 Cobb 500 roosters , and the pooled samples were allocated into five treatment groups corresponding to 0 ( control ) , 15 , 30 , 45 , and 60 microM Losartan . The control group consisted of semen extenders devoid of Losartan . Sperm samples were collected and diluted with the extender containing Losartan , followed by cryopreservation in liquid nitrogen . After thawing , sperm motility , plasma membrane integrity , mitochondrial activity , lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , and levels of antioxidant markers such as GPx , SOD , TAC , along with apoptosis-related changes , were assessed . Statistical analysis was performed using SAS software , with Tukey ' s test employed for multiple comparisons ( P < 05 was considered significant ) . The results indicated that supplementation with 30 and 45 microM Losartan significantly improved total and progressive motility , mitochondrial activity , membrane integrity , and antioxidant levels , compared to other groups ( P < 001 ) . Furthermore , these concentrations of Losartan reduced LPO and apoptosis compared to control ( P < 001 ) . However , no significant effect was observed on sperm morphology ( P > 05 ) . This study suggests that Losartan has potential as a mitochondrial-targeted antioxidant in cryopreservation media , enhancing sperm quality and mitigating oxidative damage during freezing and thawing processes .
The gut microbiota , which features complex community structures , colonizes the duck intestine and plays a crucial role in metabolism , immune regulation , and meat quality . Gut-microbiota-regulated abdominal fat deposition is a key factor that affects the meat quality of livestock and poultry . We used 16S rDNA and metagenomic sequencing to investigate the microbial community characteristics of 187 fecal samples from 10 Chinese indigenous duck breeds ( five breeds for each of the high/low abdominal fat categories ) . We explored the relationship between fecal microbiota and abdominal fat deposition . The alpha diversity of the fecal microbiome in high abdominal fat ducks ( HAF ) was higher than that in low abdominal fat ducks ( LAF ) . The fecal microbiota and function were also significantly different . At the phylum level , Actinobacteria was significantly enriched in HAF , whereas Proteobacteria , Candidatus , Saccharibacteria , and Fusobacteria were abundant in LAF . At the genus level , Lactobacillus , Alistipes , Corynebacterium , and Lachnoclostridium were more abundant in HAF than in LAF . The Streptococcus , Campylobacter , Helicobacter , Enterobacter , Gallibacterium , and Escherichia genera were significantly enriched in LAF . Microbial functional analysis indicated that the HAF fecal microbiota was mainly involved in carbohydrate , nucleotide , lipid , amino acid , terpenoids , polyketides , and xenobiotic metabolism . In addition , bacteria related to signal transduction , cofactor and vitamin metabolism , and infectious disease were enriched in LAF . This study revealed the relationship between gut microbiota and abdominal fat deposition in ducks . Our findings lay a foundation for the abdominal fat deposition mechanism in ducks and provide a reference for Chinese indigenous duck husbandry .
We studied the effects of a combination of quercetin and Ligilactobacillus salivarius ( L . salivarius ) on production performance , lipid metabolism , and ileal health in late-phase laying hens . In a 12-week feeding trial , 480 healthy 50-week-old laying hens received a basal diet supplemented with various treatments : 0 ( CON ) , 2 g/kg quercetin and 5 x 10 CFU/kg L . salivarius ( LD ) , double dose of group LD ( MD ) , triple dose of group LD ( HD ) , and 46 g/kg quercetin microcapsules ( 4 g/kg quercetin content matching the group MD ) and 1 x 10 CFU/kg L . salivarius ( group BM ) . Results showed that the laying rate was significantly higher , feed-to-egg ratio was significantly lower with supplementation ( P < 05 ) , with no changes in egg quality . Supplementation reduced serum TG , TC , HDL-C , and LDL-C levels , along with a significant reduction in the abdominal fat ratio ( P < 05 ) . Compared with the CON group , the HD and BM groups had lower TG and TC levels and reduced expression levels of ACC-alpha and SREBP1 in the liver ( P < 05 ) . In the ileum , the MD , HD , and BM groups also showed , reduced V/C ratios and histopathological scores ( P < 05 ) , increased intestinal barrier gene expression , including occludin , claudin-1 , Muc2 , and ZO-1 ( P < 05 ) , and higher expression levels of IL-10 and IL-4 ( P < 05 ) , alongside lower expression levels of IL-6 and IL-2 ( P < 05 ) . Additionally , dietary supplementation with quercetin and L . salivarius increased the abundance of Lactobacillales and Ligilactobacillus . Overall , the combination of quercetin and L . salivarius improved laying rate while reducing feed-to-egg ratio and abdominal fat ratio , likely mediated by enhanced hepatic lipid metabolism and improved gut immune status . These findings provide novel insights into the combined supplemation for enhancing poultry production efficiency .
Vegetable oils rich in polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) , such as Paeonia ostii seed oil ( >70% PUFAs ) , have significant nutritional and health benefits . Flavonoids , while beneficial to human health , also influence oil quality . However , the mechanisms governing flavonoid accumulation in seeds and their relationship with PUFA biosynthesis remain unclear . In this study , we analyzed the total flavonoid content across 124 Paeonia cultivars and selected five superior varieties . Among them , P . ostii ' Fengdan ' ( P . ostii ' FD ' ) underwent wide-target metabolomic analysis , revealing 544 differentially accumulated secondary metabolites , including 219 flavonoids-63% of which were glycoside derivatives . Transcriptomic analysis identified key genes involved in flavonoid biosynthesis , focusing on PoUGT84A1 , a UDP-glycosyltransferase . In vitro enzymatic assays confirmed that PoUGT84A1 glycosylates quercetin , kaempferol , and luteolin , enhancing their stability . Notably , both overexpression and silencing of PoUGT84A1 altered flavonoid and PUFA accumulation . Virus-induced gene silencing ( VIGS ) of PoUGT84A1 in P . ostii ' FD ' seeds reduced its expression to 06% of TRV control levels , slightly increased quercetin-3-O-glucoside ( Qu3G ) content ( 26% ) and significantly decreased fatty acid ( FA ) levels-by 57% , 66% , and 44% for oleic acid ( OA ) , linoleic acid ( LA ) , and alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA ) , respectively-compared to TRV controls . These findings advance our understanding of plant lipid metabolism and offer a promising genetic strategy for improving oil crops . This research provides valuable insights for developing high-quality vegetable oils enriched in PUFAs and flavonoids , with implications for human health , nutrition , and the sustainable oil crop industry .
This study evaluated the efficiency of extracting prolamin from Baijiu Jiuzao using different alkaline alcohol methods , and established an improved method based on the optimization of precipitation process and dialysis steps . Post-dilution acid precipitation enhanced recovery from 00 % to 08 % , while integrated dialysis increased protein purity to 85-91 % . And the improved method increased purity by 40-50 % over the traditional method . It also effectively removes heavy metals , particularly when combined with ethanol dialysis , reducing Sn , zearalenone , and aflatoxins . The improved method didn ' t affect the amino acid profile or secondary structure . Ethanol dialysis preserved the ordered structures better than water dialysis . Notably , proteomic analysis revealed that the proteins extracted using the improved method were primarily identified as 19 and 22 kDa alpha-kafirin . A small difference was observed in lipid transfer proteins and transferase precipitation . These findings highlight that the improved dialysis method effectively enhances the high-quality utilization of Baijiu by-products .
This study investigated how low-temperature storage and reheating affect the quality of ready-to-eat ( RTE ) pork dishes . Cooked lean and fatty pork were stored via refrigeration ( 4 degrees C ) , freezing ( -18 degrees C , -35 degrees C ) , or liquid nitrogen ( LN ) rapid chilling , then reheated . Refrigeration preserved texture but increased cooking loss ( 15 % lean , 2 % fatty ) and peroxide values ( PV ) , with PV rising 5-fold in lean and 4-fold in fatty meat . Freezing at -35 degrees C minimized lipid oxidation ( TBARS 16 mg MDA/kg in fatty pork ) but raised reheating loss ( 2 % lean , 5 % fatty ) . LN caused the most damage-hardness dropped 4 % , fatty meat lost 5 % fat and showed a 16-fold TBARS rise . Color values ( a* , b* ) and taste compounds ( NMS , ANS ) also declined with LN . Freezing at -18 degrees C best preserved lean meat , while -35 degrees C was optimal for fatty cuts . LN chilling is unsuitable for RTE pork . These findings offer benchmarks to optimize freezing , reheating strategies for RTE pork quality , stability .
Nanoliposomes that co-encapsulate astaxanthin and phycocyanin were treated with calcium ions ( Ca ( 2+ ) ) to generate nanocochleates . Zeta potential results revealed an electrostatic attraction between Ca ( 2+ ) and the negatively charged nanoliposomes . Dynamic light scattering , SEM , TEM , FTIR , and DSC results demonstrated the effective deposition of Ca ( 2+ ) onto the surface of nanoliposomes . Laurdan fluorescence spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction patterns showed that Ca ( 2+ ) can reduce membrane fluidity and improve lateral lipid packing . Additionally , the antioxidant activity of the control nanoliposomes ( 43 % ) increased after being loaded with astaxanthin and phycocyanin ( 30 % ) , and following interaction with Ca ( 2+ ) ( ranging from 98 % to 41 % ) . Conversely , nanocochleates enhanced physical stability of astaxanthin and phycocyanin after 28 days of storage . The release of astaxanthin and phycocyanin from nanocochleates exhibited a sustained release in a simulated gastrointestinal medium , in contrast to the rapid release of nanoliposomes . Co-delivered nanocochleates hold potential for advancing formulations by enabling the simultaneous delivery of functional compounds .
The leopard coral grouper ( Plectropomus leopardus ) , an increasingly important species in marine aquaculture , has garnered significant research interest due to its high market value . Despite extensive research on ovarian growth and development in fish , the molecular mechanisms governing lipid droplet formation and lipid deposition in P . leopardus remain poorly understood . In this study , we conducted transcriptomic analyses of P . leopardus ovaries at three developmental stages : primary growth ( PG ) , pre-vitellogenesis ( PV ) , and mid-vitellogenesis ( MV ) . A total of 534 , 847 , 090 raw reads were obtained from nine cDNA libraries , leading to the identification of 19 , 155 genes with 13 , 817 genes expressed at all stages . Differential analysis showed that 1012 , 2609 , and 4039 genes were up-regulated , while 168 , 277 , and 577 genes were down-regulated in the three comparisons , respectively . Functional enrichment analyses highlighting the critical roles of differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) in lipid transport ( such as fatp1 , fatp4 , fatp6 , apoeb , lpl and fabps ) , fatty acid metabolism ( such as elovl6 , acsl1 , dgat2 and gpat4 ) and phospholipid metabolism ( such as ept1 , chka and pla2g15 ) . These findings underscore their contribution to lipid droplet formation and deposition . Furthermore , key signaling pathways , including Wnt , mTOR , PPAR and PI3K/Akt , were implicated in regulating these processes . The reliability of the RNA-seq data was confirmed through qPCR validation of 10 lipid-related genes . Based on these results , we propose a model for lipid droplet formation and lipid deposition during ovarian development in P . leopardus . This study advances our understanding of ovarian development in P . leopardus and provides a foundation for future research on marine fish reproduction , with potential applications in species conservation and aquaculture management .
Pancreatic cancer is a highly aggressive gastrointestinal malignancy , often termed the " king of cancers " due to its notoriously high mortality rate . Its clinical characteristics , including late diagnosis , low surgical resectability , high recurrence rates , significant chemoresistance , and poor prognosis have collectively driven the persistent rise in incidence and mortality . Despite ongoing advancements in therapeutic strategies , the management of pancreatic cancer , particularly at advanced stages , remains challenging . Chemotherapy remains the mainstay of current treatment . However , the prevalent problem of chemotherapy resistance poses a significant obstacle to effective treatment . Metabolic reprogramming , characterized by alterations in glucose metabolism , lipid biosynthesis , and amino acid utilization , supports the high energy demands and rapid proliferation of cancer cells . Emerging evidence suggests that these metabolic changes , possibly mediated by epigenetic mechanisms , also contribute to tumorigenesis and metastasis . These findings highlight the critical role of metabolic alterations in pancreatic cancer pathogenesis . This review explores the relationship between metabolic reprogramming and chemotherapy resistance , discussing underlying mechanisms and summarizing preclinical studies and drug development targeting metabolism . The aim is to provide a comprehensive perspective on potential therapeutic strategies for pancreatic cancer .
BACKGROUND : Atherosclerosis ( AS ) is a key mechanism in cardiovascular diseases and a major target for interventions . Jian-pi Qu-tan Hua-yu Decoction ( JPQTHYD ) , a herbal formula , has been shown to alleviate AS . OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic effect of JPQTHYD on AS and explore its molecular mechanisms . MATERIALS AND METHODS : In vivo , we established a mouse model through a high-fat diet for 16 weeks combined with a 4-week exhaustive swimming experiment . The body weight and food intake of the mice were measured every 4 weeks . At the end of the 16 weeks , the moisture content of the mice ' s feces was measured , the morphology of the thoracic aorta and myocardium was observed using HE staining , and lipid deposition in the aorta and myocardium was assessed using Oil Red O staining . The ultrastructure of myocardial tissue was observed via transmission electron microscopy . Levels of TC , TG , and LDL-C were measured using an automatic biochemical analyzer . ELISA was used to detect the levels of ROS , IL-6 , IL-10 , TNF-alpha , hs-CRP , VCAM-1 , and ICAM- In vitro , we induced HUVECs injury using 700 nM of Ang II . Cell viability was assessed using the CCK-8 assay , while ROS levels were measured by a ROS detection kit . NOX1 gene suppression was achieved using a NOX1 inhibitor . Protein expression levels of NOX1 , ERK1/2 , P-ERK1/2 , VCAM-1 , and ICAM-1 were measured by Western blot both in vivo and in vitro . RESULTS : JPQTHYD improved fecal water content and exercise capacity in ApoE-/- mice . JPQTHYD reduced TC , TG , LDL-C levels , decreased arterial intimal thickness , and inhibited atherosclerotic plaque formation . JPQTHYD decreased proinflammatory factors and adhesion molecules by inhibiting the NOX1-ROS-ERK1/2 pathway . In vitro , JPQTHYD suppressed endothelial inflammation by reducing NOX1-ROS-ERK1/2 signaling . CONCLUSION : JPQTHYD reduced blood lipids , inhibited oxidative stress-induced inflammation , and alleviated AS in ApoE-/- mice , likely through the NOX1-ROS-ERK1/2 pathway . This study offers a novel investigation into the mechanisms and regulatory pathways through which traditional Chinese medicine contributes to the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis .
Bismuth nanoparticles ( Bi NPs ) have shown great potential in the fields of biomedical applications due to their favourable properties . However , the impacts and toxic mechanisms of monometallic Bi NPs on vertebrates remain poorly explored . In the present study , we utilised zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) as a model to evaluate the toxic effects of acute exposure to Bi NPs on early life stages . Bi NPs-treated embryos exhibited an increase in the number of malformations and decreased hatching . Exposure to 5 mg/L Bi NPs induced embryonic developmental abnormalities , including lipid transport , behavioural , and craniofacial deformities . Moreover , exposure to 25 mg/L Bi NPs caused embryonic developmental defects , including behavioural dysfunction , skeletal deformity , cardiac teratogenesis , and ocular abnormalities . Based on transcriptomics , we identified a total of 859 differentially expressed genes . Of these , 338 upregulated genes are mainly related to skeletal system development , circadian rhythm , and oxidative stress , while 519 downregulated genes are associated with visual perception and heart contraction . Furthermore , the carbon metabolism and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) signalling pathways , which are essential for embryonic development , were significantly dysregulated by exposure to Bi NPs . This study innovatively focused on evaluating the embryonic developmental toxicities of monometallic Bi NPs on zebrafish and unveiled the underlying toxic mechanisms , highlighting the potential hazard and risk posed by Bi NPs and raising concerns regarding adverse impacts on aquatic organisms .
Resolvin D5 ( RD5 ) , a lipid mediator derived from DHA via 5-lipoxygenase signaling , has been shown to resolve inflammation in various disease models . This study aimed to investigate the role of RD5 in the development of hepatic steatosis in individuals with obesity and explore the detailed mechanisms involved . Protein expression was evaluated via Western blot analysis , whereas hepatic lipid deposition was examined via Oil Red O staining and triglyceride quantification . Autophagosomes were detected via MDC staining . Our findings indicated that RD5 treatment normalized lipogenic lipid accumulation , fatty acid uptake , oxidation , apoptosis , and endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress in palmitate-treated primary hepatocytes . As a cytoprotective signaling pathway , RD5 treatment increased the expression of SIRT6 and autophagy markers , such as those involved in LC3 conversion and p62 degradation . The beneficial effects of RD5 on hepatic lipid metabolism , apoptosis , and ER stress were negated by SIRT6 small interfering RNA or 3-methyladenine , an inhibitor of autophagy . Furthermore , RD5 administration decreased hepatic steatosis , apoptosis , and ER stress in the livers of high-fat diet ( HFD ) -fed mice . In line with the in vitro results , RD5 treatment elevated SIRT6 and autophagy levels in the livers of HFD-fed mice . These novel findings suggest that RD5 improves hepatic lipid metabolism , apoptosis and ER stress through SIRT6/autophagy signaling , thereby attenuating hepatic steatosis . RD5 may have therapeutic potential for treating nonalcoholic fatty liver disease with minimal side effects .
Global increase in Microcystis-dominated cyanobacterial blooms ( MCBs ) severely threatens ecological and human health . Intraspecific interaction between microcystin ( MC ) -producing ( MC ( + ) ) Microcystis and co-existing MC-free ( MC ( - ) ) Microcystis influences the relative abundance of MC ( + ) Microcystis , ultimately determining the toxicity and hazard of MCBs . However , specific allelochemicals driving this interaction and underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear . This study confirmed that intraspecific interaction promoted the competitive advantage of MC ( + ) Microcystis over MC ( - ) Microcystis and unveiled the joint intracellular and extracellular regulatory strategies of MC ( + ) Microcystis based on proteomics-metabolomics analyses and biochemical validation . Intracellularly , MC ( + ) Microcystis enhanced pentose phosphate pathway and lipid and fatty acid biosynthesis to maintain cellular functions and membrane stability , but inhibited glycolysis , tricarboxylic acid cycle , and protein biosynthesis to optimize energy utilization for growth and proliferation . Extracellularly , MC ( + ) Microcystis released allelochemicals , including cytidine diphosphate-diacylglycerol and N-acyl-homoserine lactones , to inhibit MC ( - ) Microcystis growth by 53% and 39% , respectively , thereby achieving its competitive advantage . In contrast , MC ( - ) Microcystis exhibited the suppressed photosynthesis and oxidative phosphorylation , imbalanced anti-inflammatory responses , nucleic acid degradation , and membrane damage , resulting in its competitive disadvantage in co-culture . These findings provide new insights into the competitive dynamics between MC ( + ) and MC ( - ) Microcystis , and their involved implications for aquatic ecosystem health .
Chronic renal allograft injury ( CRAI ) is a major cause of allograft loss in kidney transplant recipients ( KTRs ) . The aim of this study was to evaluate the associations of urinary apolipoprotein A4 ( ApoA-IV ) levels with renal function and rapid renal function decline in KTRs . This study included 50 KTRs . Proteomic analysis via liquid chromatographymass spectrometry and tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) was performed to identify potential urinary biomarkers . The SWATH ( sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra ) method was used for protein quantification . Urinary ApoA-IV levels were validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) . Rapid renal function decline was defined as an estimated glomerular filtration rate ( GFR ) decrease of >3 mL/min/73 m2 per year or initiation of dialysis . The log-transformed urinary ApoA-IV levels measured by ELISA had a significantly inverse correlation with the estimated GFR ( r = -72 , P < 001 ) . Moreover , urinary ApoA-IV levels were higher in patients with rapid renal function decline than in those with stable renal function ( 4 +/- 8 mug/mL vs . 5 +/- 4 mug/mL , P = 001 ) . Univariate logistic regression analysis revealed that log-transformed urinary ApoA-IV levels were significantly associated with rapid renal function decline ( odds ratio [OR] 70 , 95% confidence interval [CI] 56-83 ; P < 001 ) . Multiple logistic regression showed urinary ApoA-IV levels remained a significant risk factor for rapid renal function decline ( OR 10 , 95% CI 10-55 ; P = 047 ) . ROC curve analysis revealed the area under the curve ( AUC ) of 834 ( 95% CI 722-945 , P < 001 ) for urinary ApoA-IV levels in predicting rapid renal function decline . Our results suggest that urinary ApoA-IV levels might be a potential biomarker for renal allograft function and could be used as a predictor for rapid renal function decline in KTRs .
Tracheal intubation is crucial in ICU treatment but poses risks of complications and mortality . Simple and effective indicators for assessing mortality risk in intubated ICU patients are needed . This study analyzed 5 , 915 intubated ICU patients from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care 0 database . Multivariable Cox regression and two-stage linear regression models were used to assess the relationship between triglyceride glucose ( TyG ) index levels and ICU and in-hospital mortality rates . High TyG levels significantly correlated with increased mortality risk ( HR range 34-44 , p < 01 ) . The association was linear with ICU mortality but nonlinear with in-hospital mortality . TyG levels >/=2 significantly increased in-hospital mortality risk ( HR : 277 , 95% CI : 114-464 , p < 001 ) . Higher TyG indices were associated with a higher risk of ICU and in-hospital mortality , emphasizing the importance of these findings for early prevention or timely intervention in intubated ICU patients .
INTRODUCTION : Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) is a major virulence factor during both meningococcal and Haemophilus influenzae meningitis . Pneumococcus does not produce LPS but could be responsible for bacterial digestive translocation as a consequence of sepsis . We addressed this question in the context of pneumococcal meningitis . METHODS : A cross-sectional study on 24 patients with pneumococcal meningitis ( 20 ( 83% ) admitted in intensive care unit , 4 ( 17% ) with septic shock ) and 34 prospectively-enrolled healthy volunteers . Interleukin 6 and C-reactive proteins plasma concentrations were measured as markers of systemic inflammation . Endotoxemia was measured using mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) for detection of molecules bound to the lipid A , namely 3-OH fatty acids . RESULTS : Meningitis patients had significantly higher levels of plasma C-reactive protein ( 237 ( 74-373 ) vs . 2 ( 2-2 ) mg/l , p < 001 and interleukin 6 ( 43 ( 13-128 ) vs . 6 ( 6-6 ) pg/ml ; p < 001 ) than healthy volunteers . However , we observed no significant difference in plasma lipopolysaccharide concentrations between patients and healthy volunteers ( 674 ( 554-896 ) vs . 668 ( 623-777 ) pmol/ml ; p = 546 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our results suggest that LPS is not a key determinant of the excessive inflammation associated with severe forms of pneumococcal meningitis .
As obligate intracellular parasites , viruses depend entirely on host cells for propagation , with replication being the central process in establishing their infections . Upon entry into host cells , positive-strand RNA viruses induce rearrangement of the host ' s cellular membranes , leading to the formation of virus replication organelles ( ROs ) . Advancements in imaging techniques have enabled the determination of three-dimensional structures for several plant viral ROs that are associated with specific organelle membranes and display either spherule- or tube-shaped structures . Viral replication proteins , along with diversely recruited host factors such as lipids and membrane-shaping proteins , are used to remodel cellular membranes and build ROs . These ROs not only shield viral replication templates and intermediates from host defense mechanisms but also serve as efficient machinery for the synthesis of viral RNAs . Moreover , ROs are intricately connected to other stages of the viral life cycle , often triggering stress responses and redox shifts within the cellular microenvironment , positioning the ROs as central hubs for virus-plant interactions . FAU - Zhang , Qianshen
AIMS : High-fat diet ( HFD ) consumption contributes to obesity and liver damage , while exercise training may counteract these effects . Given the regulatory role of microRNAs in lipid metabolism , this study investigates the impact of high-intensity interval training ( HIIT ) and HFD on hepatic fat accumulation , as well as the expression of miRNA-34a , miRNA-467b , and their associated proteins . MAIN METHODS : Twenty-four male rats were randomly assigned to four groups : CON , HIIT , HFD , and HIIT+HFD . The HFD groups received a 60% fat diet , while the rats in the HIIT groups performed high-intensity interval training ( 3 sessions/week , 5 minutes high-intensity running x 90% maximal running capacity ( MRC ) with 5 minutes active rest x 50% MRC , for ten weeks ) . Forty-eight hours post-intervention , blood and liver samples were collected to assess histopathology , liver enzymes , and the expression of miRNA-34a , miRNA-467b , SIRT1 , PPAR-a , and LPL proteins . KEY FINDINGS : The HFD group exhibited excessive hepatic lipid accumulation , whereas HIIT significantly prevented HFD-induced hepatic steatosis , as confirmed by histopathological examinations . Liver enzyme levels ( AST , ALT , and ALP ) were significantly higher in the HFD group and significantly lower in both the HIIT and HIIT+HFD groups . Additionally , HIIT significantly increased miRNA-467b , SIRT1 , and PPAR-a expression while significantly decreasing miRNA-34a and LPL expression , preventing the effects of HFD . SIGNIFICANCE : Our findings identified a novel molecular mechanism confirming that HIIT is beneficial to prevent hepatic steatosis and hepatic damage induced by HFD , likely due to the modulation of miRNA-467b , miRNA-34a , and their main target proteins . FAU - Zobeydi , Amir Mohammad
Dysregulated metabolism of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment leads to immune evasion and tumor progression . As a major cell component in the tumor , the metabolic reprogramming of tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) creates an immunosuppressive microenvironment in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . Our study found that sphingolipid ( particularly , sphingosine-1-phosphate or S1P ) levels are a clinical indicator for prognosis and immunotherapy response in patients with HCC . S1P primarily derived from TAMs , where NIMA-related kinase 2 ( NEK2 ) plays a key role in controlling the activity of serine palmitoyl-CoA transferase , a rate-limiting enzyme in S1P biosynthesis . The S1P produced by NEK2 ( hi ) TAMs promotes hepatic tumor progression and confers immunotherapy resistance . Targeting S1P synthesis with a NEK2 inhibitor or S1P antagonist disrupted the immunosuppressive function of macrophages , shifted regulatory T cells ( T ( regs ) ) to T ( H ) 17 cells , and increased the number and activity of tumor-infiltrating T effectors , thereby enhancing antitumor efficacy in synergy with immune checkpoint blockade therapy . FAU - Zhang , Xiaozhen
Gonococcus , a bacterium resistant to most antibiotics , causes more than 80 million cases of gonorrhea annually and is considered a high-priority pathogen by the World Health Organization . Recently , vaccine development prospects were boosted by reports that licensed meningococcus serogroup B ( MenB ) vaccines provided partial protection against gonococcal infection . To determine antigens responsible for cross-protection , memory B cells isolated from 4CMenB-vaccinated volunteers were single cell-sorted to identify antibodies that kill gonococcus in a bactericidal assay . Nine different antibodies , all deriving from the IGHV4-34 germline and carrying an unusually long heavy-chain complementarity-determining region 3 , recognized the PorB protein ; four others recognized the lipooligosaccharide ; and another four had unknown specificity . One of the PorB-specific antibodies provided protection in a mouse model of gonococcus infection . The identification of PorB and lipooligosaccharide as key antigens of gonococcal and meningococcal immunity provides a mechanistic explanation of the cross-protection observed in the clinic and shows that isolating human monoclonal antibodies from vaccinees can be instrumental for bacterial antigen discovery . FAU - Troisi , Marco
One of the most common sites of cancer metastasis is to the bone . Bone metastasis is associated with substantial morbidity and mortality , and current therapeutic interventions remain largely palliative . Metastasizing tumor cells need to reprogram their metabolic states to adapt to the nutrient environment of distant organs ; however , the role and translational relevance of lipid metabolism in bone metastasis remain unclear . Here , we used an in vivo CRISPR activation screening system coupled with positive selection to identify acyl-coenzyme A ( CoA ) binding protein ( ACBP ) as a bone metastasis driver . In nonmetastatic and weakly metastatic cancer cells , overexpression of wild-type ACBP , but not the acyl-CoA-binding deficient mutant , stimulated fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) and bone metastasis . Conversely , knockout of ACBP in highly bone metastatic cancer cells abrogated metastatic bone colonization . Mechanistically , ACBP-mediated FAO increased ATP and NADPH production , reduced reactive oxygen species , and inhibited lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis . We found that ACBP expression correlated with metabolic signaling , bone metastatic ability , and poor clinical outcomes . In mouse models , pharmacological blockade of FAO or treatment with a ferroptosis inducer inhibited bone metastasis . Together , our findings reveal the role of lipid metabolism in tumor cells adapting and thriving in the bone and identify ACBP as a key regulator of this process . Agents that target FAO or induce ferroptosis represent a promising therapeutic approach for treating bone metastases . FAU - Teng , Hongqi
Large , randomized trials testing omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid ( omega-3 PUFA ) supplementation to reduce cardiovascular events have reported contradictory results . Interpretation of these trials is challenging , because different dosages and formulations of omega-3 PUFA were tested . Furthermore , the exact mechanisms for the reduction in cardiovascular events are unclear . In this study , we investigated the effects of omega-3 PUFA on platelet adhesion , degranulation , and aggregation in vitro and in patients with cardiovascular disease using different formulations of omega-3 PUFA . We also investigated the effects of omega-3 PUFA in rodent models of arterial thrombosis and in tail bleeding assays , including in cyclooxygenase-1 ( COX-1 ) -deficient animals . The omega-3 PUFA eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) dose-dependently reduced platelet adhesion , degranulation , and aggregation in vitro . Moreover , arterial thrombus formation in wild-type mice was inhibited by oral EPA administration before thrombus formation . Photoaffinity labeling and in silico docking analyses suggested a direct , competitive interaction of EPA and arachidonic acid at the level of COX- The COX-1 dependency of EPA ' s inhibitory effects was confirmed by platelet-specific COX-1-deficient animals that had no reduction of thrombus burden by EPA . In patients with cardiovascular disease , switching from 2 grams of EPA twice daily to 1 gram of docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) ( 460 milligrams of EPA and 380 milligrams of DHA ) once daily completely blunted the platelet inhibition achieved by EPA . Our results may partially explain contradictory results with different omega-3 PUFA formulations in clinical trials . FAU - Mourikis , Philipp
Large-scale simulations of realistic crowded cell membranes can bridge the gap between the simulations and experiments . However , the compositional complexity and structural asymmetry of cell membranes continue to pose significant challenges in computational biology . Recent advances in understanding native membranes , including their composition and protein structures , enable us to construct a highly realistic model of the mammalian plasma membrane . Using this model , we explore the organization and dynamics of biological cell membranes at the molecular level . We found that the interaction preferences of protein-lipid mediate the formation of dynamic clusters of nonrandomly distributed proteins , accompanied by heterogeneous structural properties and anomalous diffusion . These evolving dynamic clusters intertwine to form a highly complex and continuously changing protein network . Our study provides significant insights into the intricate lateral dynamic organization of cell membranes . FAU - Zhang , Tao
Calreticulin ( CALR ) is primarily an endoplasmic reticulum chaperone protein that also plays a key role in facilitating programmed cell removal ( PrCR ) by acting as an " eat-me " signal for macrophages , directing their recognition and engulfment of dying , diseased , or unwanted cells . Recent findings have demonstrated that macrophages can transfer their own CALR onto exposed asialoglycans on target cells , marking them for PrCR . Despite the critical role CALR plays in this process , the molecular mechanisms behind its secretion by macrophages and the formation of binding sites on target cells remain unclear . Our findings show that CALR undergoes C-terminal cleavage upon secretion , producing a truncated form that functions as the active eat-me signal detectable on target cells . We identify cathepsins as potential proteases involved in this cleavage process . Furthermore , we demonstrate that macrophages release neuraminidases , which modify the surface of target cells and facilitate CALR binding . These insights reveal a coordinated mechanism through which lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -activated macrophages regulate CALR cleavage and neuraminidase activity to mark target cells for PrCR . How they recognize the cells to be targeted remains unknown . FAU - Banuelos , Allison
Nanoplastic ( NP ) pollution poses a growing threat to aquatic ecosystems . Yet , accurate risk assessment based on their bioaccumulation and toxicity remains limited . Here , we synthesized polystyrene ( PS ) NPs with sizes of 30 nm ( PS ) , 100 nm ( PS ) , and 200 nm ( PS ) , labeled with aggregation-induced emission fluorogens . This labeling approach enabled precise tracking of NP uptake and elimination in the protozoan Tetrahymena thermophila , thereby circumventing issues of low fluorescence intensity and label leakage associated with conventional fluorescence labeling methods . Significant uptake and elimination of the differently sized PS NPs were observed with multiple endocytosis and exocytosis pathways involved . Then we evaluated the effects of PS NPs on the growth of T . thermophila and explored the toxicity mechanisms . Transcriptomic analysis revealed that PS NPs disrupted energy metabolism , lipid metabolism , and cellular uptake pathways , with PS even inducing genotoxicity . Using toxicokinetic-toxicodynamic modeling , we predicted median inhibitory concentrations ( IC ) and no-effect concentrations ( NEC ) of the differently sized PS NPs across exposure durations . Under chronic exposure conditions , the NECs were 52 , 1 , and 9 mg L ( -1 ) for PS , PS , and PS , respectively , which have been detected in aquatic environments . Overall , our study provides a robust framework to evaluate the risks of NPs based on their toxicokinetic-toxicodynamic processes . FAU - Wang , Mei
Cardiovascular disease is the global #1 cause of mortality and morbidity . The majority of cardiovascular diseases is caused by atherosclerosis , a lipid-driven , inflammatory disease of the middle- and large-sized arteries . The disease is characterized by the formation of atherosclerotic plaques throughout the arterial tree . Over the years , insights into the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis have shifted from a ' lipid-driven ' model to a ' response-to-injury ' perspective , and more recently to a ' lipid-driven inflammatory disease ' viewpoint . We are now aware that a network of multiple immune cell-types and -subsets of the innate and adaptive immune system inhabit our arteries . Intricate interactions between these immune cellsubsets , non-immune cells , and local environmental substances such as lipids , cell debris and calcium cause a fluidic balance of pro-inflammatory and regulatory responses . A dysregulation of this balance towards a pro-inflammatory milieu drives atherosclerotic disease progression . Although we have acknowledged that atherosclerosis is an inflammatory disease , state-of-theart treatments are still based on lipid lowering , anti-hypertensive and lifestyle-changing strategies . In the past decade , clinical phase I , II and III trials targeting the immune system revealed that patients tolerate immunotherapy , show decreased inflammation and/or had a reduction in cardiovascular endpoints . However , the search for novel immunotherapeutic targets and treatment regimens as well as stratification of patients who would benefit from such treatments to combat atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease is only just beginning . In this review article , we will highlight the newest insights on the different cell subsets and components of the immune system in atherosclerosis and elaborate on current and future immunotherapeutics to treat atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease . FAU - Monaco , Claudia
Nonsense mutations account for over 20% of disease-associated mutations , which refer to the occurrence of premature termination codons ( PTCs ) in gene sequences , resulting in truncated and dysfunctional proteins . Nonetheless , due to poor accessibility of precise target sites and the limitations of gene editing tools , there is still a lack of safe , effective , and site-specific approach for correction of nonsense mutations . Here , we designed a circular ADAR-recruiting RNA ( Circ-arRNA ) for the in vivo RNA editing-mediated repair of the TP53-W53X nonsense mutation . Compared with linear arRNA , Circ-RNA demonstrates strong intracellular stability and high efficiency for site-specific correction of the TP53-W53X nonsense mutant , with no detectable off-target effects on bystander bases . In triple-negative breast cancer TP53-W53X 4T1 cells and tumor-bearing mouse models , we used lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) to encapsulate and deliver Circ-arRNA , which achieved mutation correction efficiencies of 32 and 48% , respectively . Furthermore , Circ-arRNA LNPs effectively restored full-length p53 protein expression and its functional activity , significantly enhancing the sensitivity of tumor-bearing mice to paclitaxel chemotherapy . Our research demonstrated the safety and efficacy of LNP-based circular arRNA for specifically the repair of nonsense mutations in vivo , highlighting the immense potential of ADAR-mediated editing for correcting such mutations . FAU - Wang , Jinjin
Immunoglobulin E ( IgE ) antibodies and mast cells have been extensively recognized to dictate the pathophysiology of anaphylaxis and allergic reactions ; nevertheless , the pivotal cues driving IgE-mediated mast cell degranulation remain enigmatic . Here , we demonstrate that FcepsilonRI aggregation-initiated p38alpha signaling stimulates Ets-1 transcription by recruitment of the SWI-SNF chromatin-remodeling complex , contributing to Pcyt1a expression and glycerophospholipid metabolism in IgE-stimulated mast cells . Most importantly , Pcyt1a-mediated glycerophospholipid metabolism facilitates mast cell degranulation through the limited macropinocytosis of FcepsilonRI via altering H3K9me3 deposition at the promoter of Prkcd . Moreover , the metabolic cue functions as an instigator of allergic diseases ( e . g . , atopic dermatitis [AD] ) according to preclinical findings of murine models , in silico analysis of human disease studies , and examination of clinical samples . In summary , our study establishes that lipid metabolism and signaling orchestrate mast cell activation and provides promising therapeutic targets for clinically tackling allergic diseases .
AIMS : The MY-3F [Fit & Fun with Football after myocardial infarction ( MI ) or coronary artery disease ( CAD ) ] study was the first to investigate whether a structured and health-adapted football training programme can improve fitness and risk factors in patients with CAD and whether it is safe . The primary objective of this study was to improve fitness in maximum oxygen uptake in spiroergometry ( VO2peak ) , blood pressure , weight , and safety . METHODS AND RESULTS : The MY-3F study is a prospective randomized interventional study with 1-year follow-up in patients with MI or CAD . A football group ( FG , n = 89 ) completed a structured ' health ' football training ( 1 h/week , 75 min ) led by licensed football coaches . The results were compared with a control group ( CG , n = 88 ) . VO2peak in the FG significantly increased from 0 to 7 mL/min/kg ( P < 001 ) , and VO2peak in the CG significantly decreased from 5 to 3 mL/min/kg ( P = 046 ) . In the FG , running performance per participant per training improved from 8 km at admission to 4 km at the end of study ( P < 001 ) . In the FG , blood pressure decreased from 132/81 to 125/76 mmHg ( P < 001 ) . In the CG , it changed slightly from 137/82 to 136/82 mmHg ( ns ) . In addition , a significantly more antihypertensives were given in CG , but not in FB . In the FG , weight decreased from 3 to 4 kg ( P = 003 ) . In the CG , it increased slightly from 7 to 91 kg ( P = 6 ns ) . Depressive symptoms showed a significant improvement in the FG ( P = 034 ) , but no changes were observed in the CG . There was no significant change in LDL cholesterol in both groups , but significantly more lipid-lowering therapy was administered in the CG ( P = 049 ) . CONCLUSION : In My-3F , the preventive benefit on CVRF ( cardiovascular risk factors ) and fitness of football training in patients after MI or CAD was clearly demonstrated for the first time . The concept proved to be safe and cost-effective and could open the doors of football clubs to evidence-based cardiological prevention .
A Gram-positive , oval-shaped and non-motile strain , designated MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) , was isolated from riverside soil and subjected to polyphasic taxonomic characterization . Strain MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) grew optimally in tryptic soy agar , forming yellow-coloured , convex and smooth colonies . The optimal growth conditions of the strain were 30 degrees C , pH 7 and absence of NaCl . Strain MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) shared the highest 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with Agrococcus sediminis NS18 ( T ) ( 3% ) , and then with Diaminobutyricimonas aerilata 6408 J-67 ( T ) ( 1% ) and Mycetocola miduiensis CGMCC 11101 ( T ) ( 9% ) , all belonging to the family Microbacteriaceae . Strain MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) had a genome size of 4 Mbp and G+C content of 6% . The digital DNA-DNA hybridization ( dDDH ) , orthologous average nucleotide identity ( orthoANI ) and average amino acid identity ( AAI ) values between strain MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) and related type strains of the genera within the family Microbacteriaceae were no higher than 2% , 54% and 19% , respectively . The dDDH , orthoANI and AAI values of MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) with related taxa were no higher than 2% , 54% and 96% , thus showing a distant relationship of the strain with other members of Microbacteriaceae . It was also notable that the species sharing the highest similarities were different for all three indices . The major polar lipids were diphosphatidylglycerol , phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylinositol . The main cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C ( 15 : 1 ) , antesio-C ( 17 : 1 ) and iso-C ( 15 : 0 ) . The predominant menaquinones were MK-10 and MK- The combination of physiological and biochemical properties , as well as chemotaxonomic features , clearly separated strain MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) from related taxa of Microbacteriaceae . It is , thus , evident that MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) represents a novel species in a novel genus , for which the name Humidisolicoccus flavus gen . nov . , sp . nov . is proposed ( type strain=MMS21-DH1MA12 ( T ) = KCTC 49751 ( T ) = LMG 32525 ( T ) =JCM 37009 ( T ) ) . FAU - Kim , Da Chan
In nontargeted spatial metabolomics , accurate annotation is crucial for understanding metabolites ' biological roles and spatial patterns . MS mass spectrometry imaging ( MSI ) coverage is often incomplete or nonexistent , resulting in many unknown features that represent an untapped source of biological information . Ion mobility-derived collision cross sections ( CCS ) have been leveraged as valuable descriptors for confirming putative metabolite annotations , distinguishing isomers , and aiding in unknown structural elucidation . In this study , desorption electrospray ionization cyclic ion mobility mass spectrometry imaging ( DESI-cIM-MSI ) data from human renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) tissues is used as a testbed to explore the extent to which CCS measurements enhance MSI lipid annotation confidence when combined with machine learning CCS predictions and SIRIUS analysis of MS data . Multipass IM experiments yielded excellent CCS accuracy ( <4% ) relative to database values for differential lipids found in RCC tissues , improving the filtering threshold used in previous CCS-based annotation workflows . High-accuracy multipass CCS measurements enabled the correct annotation of isobaric lipid database matches , even in the absence of MS data . Additionally , MS data from differential RCC features were uploaded to SIRIUS , and the predicted CCS values for SIRIUS candidates were compared to experimental CCS data to filter out unlikely candidates . Finally , CCS measurements contributed to the annotation of two spatially correlated unknown features , differential between tumor and control kidney tissues . Both features were assigned to rocuronium , a surgical muscle relaxant that had not been previously reported in MSI studies . Overall , these results underscore the potential of high-accuracy CCS values to enhance metabolite annotations in MSI-based spatial metabolomics . FAU - Leontyev , Dmitry
BackgroundAlzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is influenced by a complex interplay of genetic , immune , and metabolic factors . Identifying plasma proteins causally linked to AD could help clarify these pathways and uncover potential therapeutic targets . ObjectiveThis study aims to investigate the causal relationships between AD and plasma proteins . MethodsWe conducted a two-stage , two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis to explore the causal relationships between plasma protein levels and AD risk . In both stages , we used non-overlapping genome-wide association study datasets for exposures ( plasma protein levels ) and outcome ( AD ) to ensure robust and independent analyses . We examined both forward ( from plasma proteins to AD risk ) and reverse ( from AD to plasma protein expression ) causal effects to elucidate potential bidirectional relationships . ResultsOur MR analysis identified 25 plasma proteins with causal associations to AD , with many implicated in immune and lipid metabolic pathways . These findings reinforce the roles of inflammation and lipid metabolism in AD pathogenesis and offer novel insights into specific proteins that may serve as biomarkers or therapeutic targets . ConclusionsThis study provides further support for the relationship between immune and lipid metabolic dysregulation and AD , advancing our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying disease progression and highlighting key proteins for future research and therapeutic development . FAU - Li , Yichen
There is an unsettled concern that treatment with aromatase inhibitors ( AIT ) may adversely affect lipid-levels . In light of the improved survival of women with breast cancer and increased risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease in older people , unfavorable effects on lipid-levels may represent a significant health concern for this group of patients . We used linked data from nationwide registries , including a clinical breast cancer database with information about allocated and dispensed AIT . Based on these , we investigated changes in plasma lipid-levels ( primary outcome : low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) -cholesterol , secondary outcomes : high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) -cholesterol , total cholesterol , and triglycerides ) following AIT in a nationwide cohort of postmenopausal women with early breast cancer , Denmark , 2009- Included women had at least one LDL-cholesterol measurement before and after breast cancer diagnosis . Exposure was allocated and dispensed AIT as compared with not allocated to and no dispensed AIT . Outcome was the adjusted difference in lipid-level-change ( from before to after breast cancer diagnosis ) according to AIT . Among 10 , 461 women , there were 22 , 693 pre-breast cancer LDL-cholesterol measurements and 42 , 750 post-breast cancer LDL-cholesterol measurements . Overall , 7919 of the women were exposed to AIT and 2542 women were unexposed . For AIT exposed , the LDL-cholesterol-change was - 16 mmol/L ( mM ) , and for unexposed , - 15 mM , respectively . The corresponding adjusted difference in LDL-cholesterol change for AIT exposed versus unexposed was - 03 mM ( 95% CI - 07 to 003 ) . We found similar results in analysis of secondary outcomes . This study does not support the concern that AIT adversely affects lipid-levels .
Tubulointerstitial fibrosis ( TIF ) , a critical pathological hallmark in progressive chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) , may be potentiated by renal lipid metabolism dysregulation and ectopic lipid deposition , though these processes likely exhibit bidirectional interactions with fibrotic progression Lipophagy is a type of selective autophagy that specifically recognizes lipid droplets and is accountable for lipid stability and metabolism . It serves as a link between lipid metabolism and autophagy . It was found that a positive correlation between elevated LARS1 expression and the severity of renal interstitial fibrosis in CKD patients . In Lars1 ( +/- ) mice , we observed that the absence of LARS1 significantly reduced lipid deposition and TIF . Mechanistically , stimulation of HK-2 cells with TGF-beta1 resulted in LARS1-mediated activation of mTORC1 and suppression of lipophagy , consequently leading to increased lipid accumulation and epithelial mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) through a defined mechanistic pathway . Collectively , our studies demonstrate that LARS1 plays a pivotal role in renal fibrosis at least in part by inhibiting lipophagy , suggesting that targeting LARS1 may represent a novel therapeutic strategy for patients with CKD .
This study aimed to identify key genes and pathways associated with ageing in diabetic encephalopathy ( DE ) through transcriptome analysis and to explore their roles and mechanisms in accelerating brain ageing in diabetes . We used db/db mice to establish a model of type 2 diabetes mellitus DE . Moreover , ribonucleic acid sequencing was performed on hippocampal tissue , and differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were analysed . Ageing-related DEGs ( Ag-DEGs ) were identified based on the GenAge and CellAge databases . A protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network of Ag-DEGs was constructed using the Search Tool for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins database , and hub genes were identified using the Molecular Complex Detection and CytoHubba plugins of Cytoscape . Finally , immune infiltration analysis was conducted based on transcriptome data to investigate the role of immune cells in diabetic brain ageing . A total of 98 Ag-DEGs were identified , primarily involved in hypoxia , tumour necrosis factor-alpha signalling via nuclear factor kappa B , apoptosis and P53 pathways . The PPI network analysis identified 14 hub genes : HDAC1 , IGF2 , EGR1 , BCL2 , FOS , ATM , EGF , PARP1 , MAPK3 , APOE , SOX2 , CAV1 , HSPA5 and NFKBIA . These genes play significant roles in apoptosis pathways in cancer , lipid metabolism , atherosclerosis and human immunodeficiency virus-1 infection . Immune infiltration analysis revealed significant differences in the distribution of natural killer cells , resting mast cells and plasma cells within the diabetic brain . This study identified Ag-DEGs and hub genes in a DE model , revealing potential mechanisms of diabetes-accelerated brain ageing . These findings provide new insights into the pathological mechanisms of diabetic brain ageing and may offer new targets for therapeutic interventions .
Plant-derived extracellular vesicles ( PDEVs ) have emerged as innovative nanocarriers for drug delivery , offering advantages such as biocompatibility , stability , and cost-effectiveness . This study explores light-mediated strategies to optimize cargo encapsulation into PDEVs while preserving structural integrity . Leveraging the intrinsic photosensitizing properties of PDEVs , light irradiation ( LED ) triggered reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation , including superoxide anions and singlet oxygen , which transiently enhanced membrane permeability for controlled drug loading . Using FITC-dextran ( 70 kDa ) as a model cargo , we optimized light-induced loading efficiency , achieving a peak ( ~ 80% ) at 10 min of irradiation . Prolonged exposure ( 15 min ) reduced efficiency ( ~ 50% ) , likely due to excessive ROS-induced membrane destabilization . The optimal PDEVs-to-cargo ratio ( 1 : 30 ) ensured maximal loading while maintaining stability over 30 days . Lipid peroxidation analysis further confirmed ROS-induced membrane modifications through malondialdehyde ( MDA ) accumulation . These findings demonstrate that PLDENs ( Pueraria lobate-derived exosomes-like nanovesicles ) function as light-responsive nanocarriers , balancing ROS-mediated permeability enhancement with structural integrity . This light-triggered strategy balances permeability modulation and structural integrity , advancing PDEVs as scalable , non-invasive platforms for precision drug delivery and photodynamic applications .
CONTEXT : In the context of structural interactomics , we generated a 3D model between alpha and beta3 subunits for the hitherto unknown human voltage-gated sodium channel complex ( hNa 7alpha/beta3 ) . We embedded our 3D model in a membrane lipid bilayer for molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations of the sodium cation passage from the outer vestibule through the inner pore segment of our hNa 7 complex in presence and absence of auxiliary subunit beta3 with remarkable changes close to electrophysiological study results . A complete passage could not be expected due to because the inactivated state of the underlying 3D template . A complete sodium ion passage would require an open state of the channel . The computed observations concerning side chain rearrangements for favorable cooperativity under evolutionary neighborhood conditions , favorable and unfavorable amino acid interactions , proline kink , loop , and helix displacements were all found in excellent keeping with the extant literature without any exception nor contradiction . Complex-stabilizing pairs of interacting amino acids with evolutionary neighborhood complementary were identified . METHODS : The following tools were used : sequence search and alignment by FASTA and Clustal Omega ; 3D model visualization and homology modeling by Vega ZZ , SPDBV , Chimera and Modeller , respectively ; missing sections ( loops ) by Alphafold ; geometry optimization prior to MD runs by GROMACS 4 under the CHARMM 36 force field ; local healing of bad contacts by SPDBV based on its Ramachandran plots ; protein-protein docking by HDOCK 4 ; membrane insertion assisted by OPM ; Berendsen V-rescaling for NVT ; Parrinello-Rahman and Nose-Hoover for MPT ; MD analyses by VMD and XMGRACE .
BACKGROUND : Colistin-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae ( CR K . pneumoniae ) is considered one of the bacteria with the highest levels of antibiotic resistance , necessitating the discovery of alternative therapeutic strategies . This study aimed to evaluate the ability of eugenol , carvacrol , and cinnamaldehyde to inhibit CR K . pneumoniae and the biofilm community of this bacterium . METHOD : The minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) and antibiofilm effects of compounds were assessed using broth macrodilution and microtiter plate assays , respectively . Time-kill assays determined the bactericidal effects of natural compounds on CR K . pneumoniae isolates . Protein and nucleic acid leakage were examined to assess metabolic disruption and cell membrane integrity . Real-time PCR was used to evaluate the effect of natural compounds on the expression of biofilm-related genes ( mrkA , treC , and luxS ) . RESULTS : In the disk diffusion test , the inhibition zones of eugenol , carvacrol , and cinnamaldehyde were 15 +/- 1 , 29 +/- 2 , and 30 +/- 1 mm , respectively . The MIC of eugenol , carvacrol , and cinnamaldehyde were 260 , 119 , and 128 microg/mL , respectively . The time-kill assay demonstrated the rapid bactericidal effects of eugenol , carvacrol , and cinnamaldehyde at 2x MIC , with kill times of 6 , 2 , and 3 h , respectively . At the MIC , the kill times were 12 , 10 , and 12 h , respectively . These compounds significantly released proteins and nucleic acids from the treated bacteria . They also inhibited biofilm formation and disrupted mature biofilms . Furthermore , mrkA and treC expression levels were significantly reduced in the presence of eugenol and cinnamaldehyde . CONCLUSION : These natural compounds demonstrated significant antibacterial and antibiofilm activity against CR K . pneumoniae , emerging as a promising natural alternative for treatment .
PURPOSE : Stroke is a leading cause of disability and mortality worldwide . It has been estimated that more than 90% of the risk of stroke is associated with modifiable factors , including diabetes , hypertension , obesity , and heart disease . Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists ( GLP1RAs ) have been shown to have a beneficial effect on these major risk factors . In this review , we discuss the evidence supporting the use of GLP1RAs on brain health , particularly in relation to stroke prevention . RECENT FINDINGS : The results of multiple randomized clinical trials demonstrate that , among patients with type 2 diabetes , GLP1RAs reduce body weight and improve glucose levels and lipid metabolism . In high-risk populations , GLP1RAs also reduce the risk of major adverse cardiovascular events , including all stroke and non-fatal stroke . Mechanistically , GLP1RAs have a beneficial effect on different stroke risk factors , support microvascular function , and reduce inflammation and oxidative stress . GLP1RAs are recommended for the primary prevention of stroke in patients with diabetes and elevated cardiovascular risk .
A bacterial strain with chitin-degrading ability , designated FCG-7 ( T ) , was isolated from a mangrove sediment in Guangxi , PR China , and characterized using a polyphasic taxonomy approach . Cells of strain FCG-7 ( T ) were Gram-stain-negative , aerobic , rod-shaped and formed milky-white colonies . Growth occurred at 15-37 degrees C ( optimum , 30 degrees C ) , at pH 7-9 ( optimum , pH 7-8 ) and with 0-1% NaCl ( optimum , 5% ) . The major isoprenoid quinone was ubiquinone-8 ( Q-8 ) . The predominant fatty acids were summed feature 3 ( C ( 16 : 1 ) omega6c and/or C ( 16 : 1 ) omega7c ) and C ( 16 : 0 ) . The polar lipids comprised phosphatidylethanolamine , diphosphatidylglycerol , five unidentified phospholipids and two unidentified aminophospholipids . The G + C content of the genomic DNA was 8% . Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that strain FCG-7 ( T ) belonged to the genus Chitinibacter and was closely related to Chitinibacter bivalviorum 2T18 ( T ) ( similarity 29% ) and Chitinibacter fontanus STM-7 ( T ) ( similarity 85% ) . The average nucleotide identity ( ANI ) values of FCG-7 ( T ) and the above two type strains were 4-1% , and the digital DNA-DNA hybridization ( dDDH ) values were 9-3% . Based on the phylogenetic , phenotypic , chemotaxonomic and genotypic characteristics , strain FCG-7 ( T ) represents a novel species of the genus Chitinibacter , for which the name Chitinibacter mangrovi sp . nov . is proposed . The type strain is FCG-7 ( T ) ( = KCTC 8742 ( T ) = GDMCC 4868 ( T ) ) .
Comprehensive analysis of the RcPLATZ gene family in Rosa chinensis reveals RcPLATZ8 as a novel negative regulator of flowering , offering insights for targeted breeding to manipulate flowering traits . Flowering regulation in Rosa chinensis is essential for improving ornamental and commercial traits , but its molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood . In this study , we identified and characterized ten members of the PLANT AT-RICH SEQUENCE AND ZINC-BINDING ( PLATZ ) protein family in R . chinensis through genome-wide analysis and protein domain validation using the Pfam database . Among these , we focused on RcPLATZ8 , a novel negative regulator of flowering . Expression analysis via RT-qPCR revealed that RcPLATZ8 is predominantly expressed in floral organs , including stamens , pistils , and petals , and exhibits significant responsiveness to key plant hormones , such as abscisic acid ( ABA ) , gibberellins ( GA ) , and jasmonic acid ( JA ) . Functional assays showed that overexpression of RcPLATZ8 in Arabidopsis resulted in delayed flowering and increased leaf number , whereas silencing RcPLATZ8 in R . chinensis led to early flowering . Furthermore , Weighted Gene Co-expression Network Analysis ( WGCNA ) identified that RcPLATZ8 is part of the ' red module , ' which is strongly associated with flowering-time regulatory genes , including SHORT VEGETATIVE PHASE ( SVP ) . These findings provide new insights into the molecular regulation of flowering in roses , demonstrating that RcPLATZ8 may plays a key role in integrating hormonal signals and floral development . Our study not only expands the functional understanding of the PLATZ family but also offers potential strategies for molecular breeding aimed at improving flowering traits for horticultural applications .
Cucurbitacin B exhibits promising anticancer activity across various cancers ; however , its precise mechanism remains unclear . This study integrates network pharmacology , molecular docking , and dynamics simulations to elucidate CuB ' s multitarget therapeutic mechanisms against HCC . Potential CuB targets were retrieved from CTD , HERB , SwissTargetPrediction , ETCM , and PharmMapper databases . HCC-related genes were sourced from GEO datasets ( GSE216613 , GSE101685 , GSE62232 , GSE46408 ) , GeneCard , DisGeNET , OMIM , and TTD . Intersecting targets were analyzed via PPI networks ( STRING/Cytoscape ) , followed by GO/KEGG enrichment ( DAVID ) . Molecular docking ( Autodock Vina ) , ADMET evaluation ( ADMETlab 0 ) , and molecular dynamics simulations ( Amber20 ) validated interactions . Core targets were further verified using GEPIA , HPA , cBioPortal , and TIMER databases . A total of 139 shared targets were identified between CuB and HCC . Key targets included EGFR , MTOR , MMP9 , HSP90AB1 , STAT3 , and TNF . KEGG pathway analysis revealed significant enrichment in the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B ( PI3K-Akt ) signaling pathway , alongside cancer-related pathways ( e . g . , lipid metabolism , EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance ) . Molecular docking confirmed strong binding ( energy < - 0 kcal/mol ) between CuB and core targets ( e . g . , MTOR : - 2 kcal/mol ; HSP90AB1 : - 9 kcal/mol ) . ADMET profiling indicated favorable pharmacokinetic properties , and molecular dynamics simulations demonstrated stable ligand-receptor complexes ( RMSD < 5 A ) . External validation highlighted differential expression ( HSP90AB1 , TNF ) and clinical correlations ( CCND1 , EGFR ) in HCC . CuB exerts antitumor effects in HCC through multitarget modulation , primarily via PI3K-Akt signaling and interactions with EGFR , MTOR , and HSP90AB This study provides a mechanistic foundation for CuB ' s therapeutic potential in HCC , guiding future experimental and clinical investigations .
OBJECTIVES : The Fibrosis-4 index ( FIB-4 ) , a non-invasive tool for assessing liver fibrosis , has also been linked to cardiovascular ( CV ) risk in the general population . This connection is due to the association of chronic liver diseases , particularly fibrosis or non-alcoholic fatty liver disease , with systemic inflammation , metabolic syndrome , and atherosclerosis . In this study , we aimed to calculate the FIB-4 index in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , a condition associated with increased CV disease risk . We then examined its association with disease characteristics and CV comorbidities , including lipid profile , subclinical carotid atherosclerosis , and insulin resistance indices . METHODS : A total of 465 RA patients were recruited in this cross-sectional study . They underwent comprehensive evaluations , including disease-related features , complete lipid profile , anthropometric measurements , insulin resistance indices ( using HOMA ) , metabolic syndrome criteria , and carotid ultrasound for intima-media thickness and carotid plaque detection . FIB-4 was calculated and categorized into low ( <45 ) , indeterminate ( 45-25 ) and high risk ( >25 ) for fibrosis . A multivariable linear regression analysis was performed to examine the associations between the disease characteristics and FIB- RESULTS : Twenty percent of RA patients had a FIB-4 score indicating indeterminate or high risk for hepatic fibrosis . FIB-4 was significantly associated with higher values of the cardiovascular risk calculator SCORE2 but not with carotid atherosclerosis . It was also significantly related to insulin resistance and metabolic syndrome . However , after multivariable analysis , FIB-4 did not correlate with RA disease characteristics , including disease activity . CONCLUSION : Up to 20% of RA patients show an abnormal FIB-4 index , which correlates with cardiovascular risk and insulin resistance .
BackgroundLittle is known about the rare missense variants ( RMVs ) of APOE in East Asians , including the Japanese , and their association with Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) and lipid metabolism . ObjectiveTo identify APOE RMVs in the Japanese population and investigate their association with AD and lipid metabolism , including low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . MethodsAPOE RMVs were explored in the Niigata ( NIG ; 2589 subjects ) and Tohoku ( ToMMo ; 3307 subjects ) cohorts . A case-control study included 6261 AD cases and 16 , 331 controls , all of whom were aged 65 or older . Sanger sequencing , whole-exome sequencing , or a combination of both was performed on the NIG subjects . We used the genotype data from the ToMMo cohort . APOE RMV frequencies in the Japanese population were compared with various ethnic populations . Associations between APOE RMV genotypes , AD , and lipoproteins were examined . ResultsFourteen RMVs were identified ( minor allele frequency 02-73% ) , with 10 unique to East Asians . Five previously reported RMVs , such as the Christchurch RMV , were absent in Japanese individuals . Two RMVs ( rs140808909 and rs190853081 ) , which exhibit complete linkage disequilibrium , were found to have protective effects against AD : p ( Bonferroni ) = 28E-02 , OR ( 95% CI ) = 70 ( 54-92 ) . No significant differences in cholesterol levels were observed between RMV carriers and non-carriers . ConclusionsThe two APOE RMVs identified in Japanese individuals may have exhibited potential protective effects against AD . Further large-scale studies are needed to confirm these findings and to explore their roles in AD and lipid metabolism . FAU - Miyashita , Akinori
Myeloid differentiation protein 2 ( MD2 ) , a co-receptor of toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) in the innate immune system , has emerged as a promising target for anti-inflammatory therapies . Rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , a chronic autoimmune disorder characterized by persistent synovial inflammation and progressive joint destruction , remains a therapeutic challenge due to the lack of effective treatment options . In this study , we investigated the role of MD2 in the pathogenesis and progression of RA . Our findings show that MD2 is overexpressed in both the whole blood and synovial tissues of RA patients . Furthermore , MD2 expression was upregulated in collagen-induced RA mouse models . MD2 knockout significantly alleviated key symptoms of RA , including improved body weight , reduced paw swelling , and decreased bone destruction and cartilage erosion . Additionally , MD2 deficiency led to a significant reduction in serum levels of inflammatory cytokines and a decrease in the expression of inflammatory protein within synovial tissue . Notably , animal models revealed that genetic ablation of MD2 exerts potent anti-ferroptosis effects in arthritic pathophysiology . This protective effect was recapitulated at the cellular level through pharmacological interventions , where MD2-targeting inhibitors effectively attenuated lipopolysaccharide-induced ferroptotic cell death in murine macrophages , as evidenced by characteristic biomarkers including glutathione depletion and lipid peroxidation . Mechanistically , the reduction in ferroptosis and inflammation following MD2 knockout was associated with the inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) and nuclear factor kappa-B ( NF-kappaB ) signaling pathways in the synovial tissue . These results suggest that MD2 plays a critical role in both the inflammatory response and ferroptosis , in the context of RA . Consequently , MD2 represents a key mediator of RA pathogenesis and an innovative therapeutic target for the treatment of this debilitating disease . KEY MESSAGES : MD2 expression is upregulated in synovial tissue following the onset of rheumatoid arthritis . MD2 knockout alleviates bone destruction , cartilage erosion , and inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis mice . MD2 deficiency mitigates rheumatoid arthritis in mice by inhibiting ferroptosis induced by the MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling pathways . MD2 may serve as a potential therapeutic target for rheumatoid arthritis .
Type 1 diabetes is associated with excess cardiovascular risk . In contrast to type 2 diabetes , however , age at the onset of type 1 diabetes and sex are major predictors of cardiovascular risk , while the role of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) and lipid-lowering therapy is less clear . Since most data on the effects of lipid-lowering treatments are obtained from randomized clinical trials that included very predominantly patients with type 2 diabetes , it is almost impossible to specifically discern endpoints in type 1 diabetes . Inversely , most data specific for type 1 diabetes are obtained from real world findings . Consequently , the evidence on efficacy and safety of lipid-lowering therapies available from randomized clinical trials arises very predominantly from type 2 diabetes . Thus , this specific review summarizes the evidence of lipid-lowering drug classes in reducing cardiovascular risk in patients with type 1 diabetes .
RNA therapeutics represent a pivotal advancement in contemporary medicine , pioneering innovative treatments in oncology and vaccine production . The inherent instability of RNA and its delivery challenges necessitate the use of lipid-based nanoparticles as crucial transport vehicles . This research focuses on the design , simulation , and optimization of various microfluidic channel configurations for fabricating poly ( dimethylsiloxane ) ( PDMS ) microfluidic chips , aimed at producing lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) encapsulating green fluorescent protein mRNA ( GFP mRNA ) . Aiming for high mixing efficiency and acceptable pressure drop suitable for scale-up , we designed and improved multiple microfluidic channels featuring flow focusing and diverse tilted rectangular baffle structures via computational fluid dynamics ( CFD ) . Simulation results indicated that baffle angles ranging from 70 to 90 degrees exhibited similar mixing efficiencies at different total flow rates , with pressure drops increasing alongside the baffle angle . Additionally , increasing the baffle length at a fixed angle of 70 degrees not only improved mixing efficiency but also increased the pressure drop . To validate these findings , PDMS microfluidic chips were fabricated for all designs to prepare empty LNPs . The baffle structure with a 70 degrees angle and 150 mum length was identified as the best configuration based on both simulation and experimental results . This optimal design was then used to prepare LNPs with varying GFP mRNA concentrations , demonstrating that an N/P ratio of 6 yielded the highest transfection efficiency from in vitro experiments . This work not only advances the production of lipid-based nanoparticles through microfluidics but also provides a scalable and reproducible method that can potentially enhance the clinical translation of RNA therapeutics . FAU - Yu , Mingzhi
Iron-induced lipid peroxidation of phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) species is a key driver of ferroptosis in retinal pigment epithelial ( RPE ) cells , a process closely associated with age-related macular degeneration ( AMD ) . The previous studies have demonstrated that induced retinal pigment epithelial ( iRPE ) cells generated by transcription factor-mediated reprogramming exhibit superior therapeutic efficacy in treating AMD . In this study , it is found that these iRPE cells are resistant to ferroptosis and further identified phosphoethanolamine/phosphocholine phosphatase 1 ( PHOSPHO1 ) as a critical regulator underlying ferroptosis resistance . Mechanistically , PHOSPHO1 inhibits ferroptosis through two distinct mechanisms . First , it reduces PE levels in the endoplasmic reticulum , thereby limiting PE-derived lipid peroxidation . Second , it suppresses autophagy and ferritinophagy , leading to a reduction in intracellular free iron accumulation . Experiments using an in vivo rat model confirm that PHOSPHO1 effectively protects RPE cells from ferroptotic damage . These findings highlight PHOSPHO1 as a potential therapeutic target for AMD , providing insights into novel ferroptosis-based intervention strategies .
The snail Biomphalaria glabrata is an important transmitter of Schistosoma mansoni , the parasite that causes schistosomiasis . One of the strategies for controlling the disease involves interrupting the transmission cycle of the parasite by managing the host snail population . In a previous study , the sanitizer polyhexamethylene biguanide hydrochloride ( PHMB ) caused mortality in B . glabrata starting at 6 mg L- The present study evaluated the activity of PHMB at concentrations of 4 , 6 , and 8 mg L-1 through behavioral changes and biochemical biomarkers . The snails were evaluated every 24 hours for behavioral changes such as lethargy , mucus secretion , shell confinement , exposure of the cephalopodal mass , and lack of movement . After 96 hours , hemolymph was collected via cardiac puncture for analysis of glucose , total protein , urea , uric acid , creatinine , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) enzymes , and organic acids involved in the glycolytic pathway , tricarboxylic acid cycle , and lipid and protein metabolism . The exposure of the cephalopodal mass with lack of movement showed the highest rates of behavioral changes , ranging from 72% to 95% . Additionally , exposure to PHMB resulted in the use of fatty acids and proteins as energy substrates . Our results suggest a continuation of studies on energy metabolism pathways as a promising target for controlling snail vectors of parasites that cause neglected diseases such as schistosomiasis . FAU - Almeida , M E A
Variety and diversity serve as the foundation for animal husbandry development . Nowadays , heterosis is often used to improve animal performance and increase economic benefits . The intestine is an important organ for nutrient absorption and is also the largest immune organ in the body . Intestinal microorganisms can be influenced by various factors such as animal growth and development stages , gender , health status , feed nutrition level , and host genetic background , among others . In this study , three strains of male sheep , with no significant differences in initial weight at 6 months old , were raised under the same conditions until they reached 9 months of age . We collected the rectal feces of these 9-month-old sheep and compared the differences in rectal fecal microorganisms among the three strains using 16S rDNA sequencing technology . The permutational multivariate analysis of variance test revealed significant differences in microorganisms among different strains . Additionally , we identified six biomarkers in Tibetan sheep and Hu sheep , respectively . Functional enrichment analysis showed that microorganisms may affect the growth traits of sheep through lipid metabolism , and the functional differences among different strains were obvious . Therefore , we believe that crossbreeding can result in the offspring obtaining intestinal microorganisms from their parents to varying degrees , and host heredity is the primary cause of the intestinal microorganism differences . IMPORTANCE : In this study , we identified parental biomarkers by exploring the relationship between parental and hybrid offspring and concluded that these biomarkers may affect related growth traits through fat deposition or lipid metabolism pathways . We also found that hybrid sheep inherited rectal fecal microbes from their parents to varying degrees . FAU - Xu , Dan
Bisphenol A ( BPA ) , an environmental toxin , exerts adverse effects by increasing mitochondrial ( mROS ) and intracellular ( iROS ) reactive oxygen species , apoptosis , and Ca ( 2+ ) influx in neurological diseases . However , antioxidants can mitigate these detrimental effects . This study aimed to investigate the protective role of antioxidant alpha-lipoic acid ( ALA ) against BPA-induced TRPV4 channel stimulation , oxidant , and apoptotic changes in SH-SY5Y neuronal cells . Five experimental groups were established : control , ALA , BPA , BPA + ALA , and BPA + TRPV4 antagonist ( ruthenium red , RuR ) . BPA increased excessive Ca ( 2+ ) influx and TRPV4 current density , while BPA- and TRPV4 agonist ( GSK1016790A ) -induced TRPV4 stimulations were downregulated following incubation with ALA and RuR . BPA-induced increases in oxidant markers ( lipid peroxidation , mROS , iROS ) , apoptotic markers ( caspase-3 , -8 , and -9 ) , Zn ( 2+ ) , and cell death were reduced by ALA and RuR treatment . Conversely , BPA-induced reductions in cell viability , glutathione , and glutathione peroxidase levels were restored following treatment . In summary , ALA attenuated BPA-induced excess Ca ( 2+ ) influx , Zn ( 2+ ) accumulation , apoptosis , and oxidative neurotoxicity via TRPV4 inhibition . Therefore , ALA may offer protection against BPA-induced neuronal cell death associated with oxidative neurotoxicity .
Gold-based nanomaterials have marked the last few decades with the emergence of new medical technologies presenting unique features . For instance , the conjugation of gold nanoparticles ( AuNPs ) and nucleic acids has allowed the creation of nanocarriers with immense promise for gene therapy applications . Although the use of lipid particles as RNA delivery vectors has been broadly explored , this review aims to focus on the limited models reported for the conjugation of RNA with AuNPs . This is nonetheless unexpected regarding the manifold strategies existing to conjugate DNA to gold nanoparticles , which are exhaustively listed in this paper . Furthermore , new processes such as fast microwave and freezing methods have been described very recently , and it therefore seemed necessary to review these recent but promising conjugation pathways and to pick out those applicable to RNA . Indeed , RNA is considerably more attractive than DNA for therapeutic purposes , but its low stability involves numerous difficulties in the construction of effective nanodevices . However , from the many approaches developed for DNA , it turns out that just two of them are frequently used for the building of RNA delivery platforms based on gold : the salt-aging method with thiolated RNA strands and physisorption . However , both approaches present strong limitations such as the low stability of the Au-S bond and the potential cytotoxicity of polycations . To conclude , this general assessment highlights that the exploration of innovating approaches implying different chemistries is needed for the creation of more robust and shapeable AuNPs-RNA conjugates . FAU - Dutour , Raphael
B vitamins are essential micronutrients that play crucial roles in various biochemical reactions , yet their stability in food systems is significantly affected by oxidation during processing and storage . This comprehensive review examines the complex interactions between B vitamin oxidation and other food components , particularly focusing on the underlying effect of lipid oxidation , protein oxidation , and Maillard reactions on B vitamin stability . The review systematically analyzes the oxidation mechanisms of eight B vitamins and their unique susceptibilities to different oxidative conditions . Special attention is given to the food matrix effects , including how changes in the oxidation status of food systems and alterations in matrix properties affect B vitamins ' stability . The interplay between B vitamins and other food components is discussed from both chemical and physical perspectives , providing insights into how these interactions affect vitamin retention and bioavailability . Recent advances in understanding these complex relationships are highlighted , along with emerging strategies for vitamin preservation in food systems . This review synthesizes current knowledge about B vitamin oxidation in foods while identifying critical knowledge gaps and future research directions . The findings presented here have important implications for food processing , fortification , and storage strategies aimed at optimizing B vitamin retention in food products .
Targeted drug delivery and precision medicine offer great promise for enhancing therapeutic efficacy while minimizing systemic toxicity . Among various platforms , lipid-based delivery systems have attracted significant interest due to their intrinsic biocompatibility and their ability to transport hydrophilic , hydrophobic , and amphiphilic compounds . With recent advances in bottom-up synthetic biology and microfluidics , giant unilamellar vesicles ( GUVs ) have emerged as a versatile candidate for drug delivery . However , achieving controlled and directed motion of GUVs remains a critical challenge . In this study , we conduct a systematic experimental investigation of GUVs encapsulating magnetic particles ( magGUVs ) subjected to inhomogeneous magnetic fields . We develop a lattice Boltzmann simulation framework to model the propulsion of GUVs driven by an internally encapsulated particle under a constant force , and compare the simulated speeds with experimental measurements . Furthermore , we demonstrate a proof-of-concept integrating directed motion of magGUVs with controlled , localized release of encapsulated contents via light-induced asymmetric oxidation . This work provides a foundation for the design of lipid-based drug delivery vehicles that combine navigational control with on-demand release capabilities , advancing targeted therapeutic strategies in precision medicine . FAU - Malik , Vinit Kumar
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : The SLC5A6 gene encodes a transmembrane protein responsible for transporting biotin , pantothenic acid , and lipoic acid . Mutations in SLC5A6 have shown a wide spectrum of clinical phenotypes , such as sodium-dependent multivitamin transporter deficiency ( SMVTD ) , childhood-onset biotin-responsive peripheral motor neuropathy ( COMNB ) , and mixed axonal and demyelinating sensory motor neuropathy . The purpose of this study was to identify pathogenic SLC5A6 mutations in the Korean CMT cohort . METHODS : This study performed whole exome sequencing to identify the genetic cause for two independent patients with early onset axonal sensorimotor polyneuropathy and SMVTD . We also examined the therapeutic effects of multivitamin replenishment on a patient with SLC5A6 mutations . RESULTS : We identified compound heterozygous variants of SLC5A6 in two patients ( p . Arg94X and p . Phe522Ser in patient 1 ; p . Cys443Tyr and p . Phe513_Lys515delinsLeu in patient 2 ) . In patient 2 , an oral regimen comprising biotin , lipoic acid , and pantothenic acid demonstrated significant therapeutic effects , including cessation of cyclic vomiting , resolution of skin lesions on the fingers , and improvements in muscle weakness affecting both the upper and lower extremities . INTERPRETATION : This study represents the first report of novel heterozygous SLC5A6 mutations in patients with axonal CMT and SMVTD , expanding the phenotypic spectrum associated with SLC5A6 mutations . Notably , we observed significant therapeutic effects from multivitamin treatment in a patient .
Several pulmonary lesions have been described in Virginia opossums ( Didelphis virginiana ) , but fungal pneumonia in this species is largely unrecognized . We retrospectively analyzed gross and histologic pulmonary findings in 28 opossums from Louisiana . Lung sections were evaluated for fungal organisms , associated histologic changes , and other concurrent pulmonary lesions . Seventy-five percent of opossums ( 21/28 ) had pulmonary fungal organisms , and gross lesions were characteristic , consisting of patchy to generalized , indistinct , pinpoint , light-yellow parenchymal foci . These areas corresponded to alveoli filled with foamy macrophages and multinucleated giant cells that contained distinctive intracytoplasmic budding cells , which were 3 to 5 x 2 microm , ovoid to elongate , and argyrophilic , as well as rare pleomorphic fungal hyphae . Purpureocillium lilacinum was identified based on pulmonary fungal isolation and/or fungal internal transcribed spacer 2 ( ITS-2 ) polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) and sequencing in a subset of cases . Other findings included verminous pneumonia ( 13/28 , 46% ) , pulmonary neoplasms ( 7/28 , 25% ) , bacterial pneumonia ( 5/28 , 18% ) , and endogenous lipid pneumonia ( 2/28 , 7% ) . The histologic severity of fungal infections was significantly positively correlated with gross lesion severity and abundance of alveolar macrophages ( P-values both < . 0001 ) . Identification of fungal pneumonia was as likely as verminous pneumonia , and fungal pneumonia was significantly more severe in opossums with concurrent verminous pneumonia ( P = . 0011 ) . Despite the pulmonary changes , respiratory signs were rarely noted , even in severely affected cases . This is the first report associating P . lilacinum with fungal pneumonia in opossums from Louisiana . The characteristic gross and histologic lesions should prompt diagnosticians to closely evaluate for fungal organisms and consider P . lilacinum as a differential diagnosis . FAU - Falconnier , Naomi
Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic pathogen frequently found in healthcare settings , exhibiting resistance to carbapenems and third-generation cephalosporins . Hypervirulent community-acquired strains are also emerging . According to the World Health Organization ( WHO ) , it is the top priority for developing new treatment strategies . A putative phospholipase D ( PLD1 ) was linked to K . pneumoniae virulence , as a mutant strain is avirulent in a mouse model . However , the PLD1 function remains unclear . In the current study , no interaction between PLD1 and lipids was detected in a fat-blot . Lipidomic profile was not altered between strains or infected cells . To shed light on the role of PLD1 , we compared the gene expression profile of a wild-type x pld1 mutant and found 330 modulated genes . Noteworthy , capsular polysaccharide genes were increased in the wild-type , while the mutant expressed higher levels of fimbriae , conjugation systems , and stress-protection proteins . Electron microscopy confirmed a loose capsule in the mutant , which also showed an enhanced adhesion to epithelial cells . A pulldown experiment using PLD1 as bait identified 48 macrophage proteins as putative ligands , including ribosomal , RNA-related , small GTPases , and cytoskeleton-related proteins . It suggests that PLD1 may modulate host cell complexes , favoring the infection . These findings provide novel clues about PLD1 ' s role in virulence , guiding further investigations . FAU - de Carvalho , Mayara de Mattos Lacerda
BACKGROUND : Hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury ( IRI ) is a critical complication in liver transplantation and resection , driven by oxidative stress and sterile inflammation mediated by damage-associated molecular patterns ( DAMPs ) . Current therapeutic challenges arise from interconnected cell death pathways and redundant inflammatory mechanisms . OBJECTIVE : This review synthesizes mechanistic insights into DAMP signaling and regulated cell death modalities in IRI , aiming to identify translational gaps and propose precision-targeted therapies . METHODS : A literature search in PubMed using keywords " IRI , " " DAMPs , " and cell death modes was conducted without date restrictions . Peer-reviewed studies on human/animal models were included , with qualitative synthesis of DAMP-cell death interactions . RESULTS : During ischemia , mitochondrial dysfunction releases HMGB1 , ATP , and mtDNA , activating Kupffer cell TLR4/RAGE and cGAS-STING pathways , triggering NLRP3 inflammasome-- driven cytokine storms . Reperfusion amplifies ROS bursts , lipid peroxidation , and iron overload , creating a self-sustaining cycle of damage . Cell death modalities exhibit spatiotemporal specificity : hepatocyte ferroptosis dominates early injury , while macrophage pyroptosis and necroptosis predominate in steatotic livers during late phases . HMGB1 lactylation and mtDNA-cGAS signaling emerge as key regulators . Machine perfusion ( e . g . , hypothermic oxygenated perfusion ) reduces biliary complications via mitochondrial resuscitation , outperforming conventional drugbased therapies . CONCLUSION : Current single-pathway targeting shows limited efficacy due to IRI ' s complexity . Future strategies should integrate temporal targeting ( ferroptosis inhibitors pre-reperfusion ; pyroptosis blockers post-reperfusion ) , DAMP-neutralizing agents ( anti-HMGB1 antibodies ) , and precision preservation combining multi-omics biomarkers with ex vivo pharmacological preconditioning . Addressing metabolic vulnerabilities in fatty livers and refining cell death-specific interventions are critical for bridging translational gaps .
INTRODUCTION : Some HIV patients stay in an immune unresponsive state after antiretroviral therapy ( ART ) , with a notably higher risk of AIDS-related and non-AIDS-related complications . Double-negative T cells ( DNT ) can compensate for immunity and prevent immune overactivation in HIV patients . Also , immune non-responders ( INRs ) have fewer DNT cells than immune responders ( IRs ) . HIV infection and ART can change the dynamic function of cell mitochondria , which are crucial in ferroptosis . Ferroptosis is a form of cell death marked by the accumulation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and iron-dependent lipid peroxidation . Yet , the changes in DNT cell function in INRs and the impact of ferroptosis on immune reconstitution remain unclear . AIMS : Our study focused on the expression level of DNT cells in HIV immune non-responders . Then , we detected markers of ferroptosis , cell activation , proliferation , killing function , and inflammatory states of DNT cells in INRs . METHODS : The study involved 88 PLHIVs who had received antiretroviral therapy for over 4 years and tested virus-negative . These patients were classified into two groups : 28 INRs ( CD4 < 350/mul ) and 60 IRs ( CD4 >/=350/mul ) . Additionally , 25 sex- and age-matched HCs were included . Flow cytometry was used to detect ferroptosis markers ( JC-1 , Lipid ROS , lipid peroxidation ) , cell proliferation , and cell activation . Transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) was applied to observe mitochondrial morphology . Finally , statistical analysis was performed on the detection results . RESULTS : After long-term antiretroviral therapy , we found that INRs had a lower DNT cell count than IRs . Regarding proliferation and activation , our results showed higher CD38/HLA-DR co-expression and Ki67 expression in INRs ' DNT cells than in IRs ' , indicating over-activation of DNT cells in INRs . In terms of killing function , the perforin and granzyme B levels in INRs ' DNT cells were lower than those in IRs ' , suggesting impaired killing function of DNT cells in INRs . For ferroptosis , the proportion of DNT cells with decreased MMP in INRs was higher than in IRs and HCs . INRs ' DNT cells also had higher levels of lipid ROS and lipid peroxidation compared to those in IRs and HCs . TEM revealed that the mitochondria of INRs ' DNT cells had typical morphological features . Moreover , INRs ' DNT cells had a greater degree of inflammation . CONCLUSION : Our study centered on the proliferation , activation , ferroptosis , killing function , and inflammatory status of DNT cells in INRs . We found that DNT cells in INRs had more active proliferation and activation , weakened killing function , mitochondrial function with typical ferroptosis features , and increased TNF-alphalevels . Correlation analysis indicated that DNT cell overactivation ( Ki-67+ , CD38+HLA-DR+ ) , MMP reduction ratio , and TNF-alphaexpression were negatively related to immune reconstitution in PLHIVs . In contrast , the killing function ( perforin+ ) of DNT cells was positively related to it . These findings provide a theoretical basis for targeting the functional remodeling of DNT cells . In the future , therapeutic strategies can be explored , such as regulating the mitochondrial metabolic pathway or enhancing the immunoregulatory activity of DNT cells . These strategies can thus offer innovative solutions to the dilemma of immune reconstitution in HIV-infected individuals .
Monogenic neurological disorders significantly contribute to global morbidity and mortality , yet their genetic mechanisms remain poorly understood , especially in consanguineous Pakistani populations with over 83% consanguinity rates . The underrepresentation of these populations in global genomic databases complicates the interpretation of rare genetic variants crucial for diagnostics and healthcare outcomes . Baralle-Macken syndrome ( BARMACS ) is a rare autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the COPB1 gene , essential for transporting proteins and lipids within cellular compartments , including neurons . While only two homozygous COPB1 mutations have been previously reported , we describe a third novel variant ( Chr11 ( GRCh37 ) : g . 14480187C>A ; NM_4 : c . 2693G>T ; p . Arg898Leu ) identified in two male siblings from a consanguineous Pakistani family . This variant alters a highly conserved arginine residue , suggesting a pathogenic effect on protein function , potentially disrupting transport between the Golgi apparatus and the endoplasmic reticulum and impairing early brain development . Our study marks the first report of Baralle-Macken syndrome in a Pakistani population , highlighting a novel missense mutation in COPB1 associated with the disorder , and represents the first documented case involving affected males . These findings emphasize the necessity for further investigation into the functional consequences of COPB1 mutations and their impact on disease pathology .
OBJECTIVE : The purpose of this study was to use machine learning models to predict the risk of hyperlipidemia in people living with HIV ( PLWHs ) for 6 months after starting highly active antiretroviral therapy ( HAART ) , to improve early intervention efforts and prevent further progression to cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases . METHODS : This study enrolled HAART-naive individuals who visited the clinic at Beijing Ditan Hospital between January 2015 and January All clinical features were extracted from the electronic medical records . A classification prediction model was established based on various machine learning algorithms , including random forest ( RF ) , extreme gradient boosting ( XGBoost ) , and light gradient boosting machine ( LightGBM ) , to predict the risk of hyperlipidemia based on accuracy , positive prediction value , negative prediction value , sensitivity , and specificity . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve , precision-recall curve , and decision curve analyses were used to visually evaluate the model . RESULTS : A total of 2 , 479 participants ( median age , 33 years ) were included , of which 2380 ( 01% ) were male and 99 ( 99% ) were female . The LightGBM model performed the best among all the models in both the training and testing sets . This model performed well in the decision curve analysis , and baseline HDL-C , baseline TG , baseline viral load , age , albumin , monocyte count , baseline CD4 cell count , uric acid level , lymphocyte count , and sex were the top ten predictive risk factors for hyperlipidemia in PLWHs who started HAART treatment for 6 months , based on SHAP analysis . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrated that the LightGBM model can effectively predict the risk of hyperlipidemia in PLWHs after starting HAART treatment for 6 months and reminded physicians closely to monitor serum lipid levels or the timely addition of lipid-lowering drugs , which helped prevent the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases among PLWHs .
BACKGROUND : Polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) is a universal reproductive , endocrine , and metabolic disorder . It affects 2% of women worldwide . Echinochrome ( Ech ) is the most common dark red pigment of sea urchin shells and possesses high antioxidant and hypoglycemic properties . Quercetin ( Quer ) is a flavonol widely distributed in plants with high antioxidant properties . Therefore , Ech and Quer as a combined protective therapy were investigated against letrozole and high-fat diet-induced PCOS model in rats . METHODS : Sixty female rats were divided randomly into five groups : Control : received 2% DMSO with a normal diet , PCOS : received letrozole with HFD , Ech : received letrozole and Ech with HFD , Quer : received letrozole and Quer with HFD , Ech + Quer : received letrozole , Ech , and Quer together daily orally for 4 weeks . Half of the rats in each group were sacrificed , and the remaining rats were examined for their ability to mate and fertility . RESULTS : Ech and Quer treatment restored normal levels of lipid and hormonal profiles , oxidative status , kidney and liver functions with a marked amelioration in ovarian , uterine histopathology , and a good evidence in pregnancy analysis . CONCLUSION : Ech and Quer were found to have a potent protective effect against PCOS , minimal side effects , and improved progeny outcomes in rats .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy ( HCM ) is a genetic cardiac disorder characterized by left ventricular hypertrophy ( LVH ) , diastolic dysfunction , and impaired metabolic efficiency . This study investigates the therapeutic potential of the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 inhibitor ( SGLT2i ) empagliflozin ( EMPA ) in ameliorating these pathological features in a mouse model carrying the myosin R403Q mutation . METHODS : Male mice harbouring the R403Q mutation were treated with EMPA for 16 weeks . Multi-nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy ( 31P , 13C , and 23Na MRS ) , echocardiography , transcriptomic , proteomic , and phosphoproteomic profiling were utilized to assess metabolic , structural , and functional changes . RESULTS : Empagliflozin facilitated the coupling of glycolysis with glucose oxidation and normalized elevated intracellular sodium levels . Treatment resulted in a significant reduction in LVH and myocardial fibrosis as evidenced by echocardiography and histopathology . These structural improvements correlated with enhancements in mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) synthesis , fatty acid oxidation , and branched-chain amino acid catabolism . Furthermore , EMPA improved left ventricular diastolic function and contractile reserve , underscored by improved ATP production and reduced energy cost of contraction . Notably , these benefits were linked to down-regulation of the mammalian target of rapamycin signalling pathway and normalization of myocardial substrate metabolic fluxes . CONCLUSIONS : Empagliflozin significantly mitigates structural and metabolic dysfunctions in a mouse model of HCM , underscoring its potential as a therapeutic agent for managing this condition . These findings suggest broader applicability of SGLT2i in cardiovascular diseases , including those due to myocardial-specific mutations , warranting further clinical investigation .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the role of glycerol and urea in water-holding mechanisms in the stratum corneum ( SC ) using synchrotron X-ray diffraction and to clarify differences in activity . METHODS : Structural changes in human SC samples treated with water , glycerol , and urea aqueous solutions were measured during drying , focusing on the short lamellar , orthorhombic hydrocarbon-chain packing , and coiled-coil alpha-helix structure of the soft keratin , which are affected by water . RESULTS : During drying of the treated SC , the coiled-coil alpha-helix chain distance decreased due to the removal of bound water . The reduction rate was suppressed in the SC treated with glycerol , followed by those treated with urea . This result suggests that water binding via glycerol is strongest to soft keratin , followed by urea . Furthermore , for the short lamellar structure , we calculated the volume associated with the hydrocarbon chain , its head group , and water in the head group , from which we estimated the quantity of water removal . Initially , the volume was unchanged because no water was removed . Once the SC was treated with glycerol and urea , the volume-unchanged interval was longer than that in the SC treated with water alone . Therefore , glycerol and urea strengthened water retention within the water layer . CONCLUSION : Taken together with the results obtained from the solid-state NMR analysis of the soft keratin , the present results indicate that glycerol enhances the retention of the maximum bound water of 25 wt% in the SC , whereas urea retains it somewhat weakly . Therefore , from the results of in vivo confocal Raman microscopy , which indicated that the water content near the surface of the normal skin is approximately 25 wt% , it is deduced that the maximum bound water content is strongly held at the skin surface with the aid of glycerol or urea . On the other hand , it was found that the lipid lamellar structure serves to regulate the water content to maintain it at 25 wt% and glycerol and urea work to enhance this regulation mechanism . Owing to the above two mechanisms , the water content at the skin surface is maintained at 25 wt% homeostatically , and the homeostatic state is strengthened by glycerol and urea .
INTRODUCTION : Orofacial Granulomatosis ( OFG ) is a rare chronic inflammatory disorder characterized by persistent or recurrent swelling of the lips and oral mucosa , often accompanied by granulomatous inflammation in the orofacial region with limited effective treatment options available . Emerging evidence suggests an immune dysregulation in the development and progression of OFG . Immune cells , including monocytes and neutrophils ( PMNs ) , are involved in autoimmune and inflammatory diseases by releasing pro-inflammatory and immunomodulatory molecules . METHODS : Considering that microbial agents have been suggested as potential triggers for OFG , in this study we evaluated the effect of LPS , fMLP and PMA on the activation of monocytes and PMNs purified by 11 OFG patients and 11 sex-and age-matched healthy donors ( HDs ) . RESULTS : Upon stimulation , OFG-derived monocytes displayed a higher release of pro-inflammatory cytokines ( CXCL8/IL-8 , IL-6 , TNF-alpha , IL-33 ) compared to HDs . Conversely , OFG-derived monocytes showed a lower release of IL-10 , IFN-gamma compared to HDs . Upon stimulation , peripheral PMNs from OFG patients released large amounts of TNF-alpha and MPO compared to HDs . In addition , OFG-derived PMNs showed high percentages of activated PMNs ( CD62L ( - ) ) and increased ROS production compared to HDs . Compared to HDs , OFG patients presented higher serum levels of MMP-9 , MPO and TNF-alpha , together with MPO-DNA complexes and citrullinated histone H3 ( CitH3 ) ( two biomarkers for neutrophil extracellular traps ) . DISCUSSION : These preliminary data suggest that in presence of various stimuli , monocytes and PMNs of OFG patients displayed an activated phenotype compared to HDs . Unraveling the interplay between bacterial triggers and immune cell function in OFG will be necessary to elucidate mechanisms driving this complex disease and identify novel therapeutic targets for improved management of OFG patients .
The increasing incidence of dyslipidemia among children and adolescents has emerged as a significant public health concern due to its associated risk of long-term cardiovascular complications . The prevalence of dyslipidemia has increased in parallel with rising obesity rates , highlighting the importance of early intervention . In this narrative review , we explore the epidemiology , screening , diagnosis , and treatment of dyslipidemia in pediatric populations , focusing on recent advancements and updates in clinical management . Key diagnostic criteria and risk assessment strategies are discussed , emphasizing the role of lipid profile screening in high-risk groups . Lifestyle and dietary interventions are key for managing dyslipidemia , while pharmacological treatments including statins , cholesterol absorption inhibitors , and emerging therapies are reviewed in cases requiring further intervention . Updated guidelines and evidence-based recommendations from Korean and other international institutions are consolidated to provide a comprehensive overview . These findings underscore the necessity of a multidisciplinary approach combining early detection , tailored treatment , and lifestyle modifications to mitigate the long-term health risks associated with dyslipidemia in younger individuals .
Fenofibrate is a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ( PPARalpha ) agonist currently utilized clinically to reduce lipid levels . Experimental autoimmune myocarditis ( EAM ) is a T cell-mediated autoimmune myocarditis with histopathological evidence of extensive inflammatory cells infiltrated into the myocardium , resulting in myocardial fibrosis . Previously , the authors demonstrated that long-term fenofibrate could alleviate rat EAM ; however , the underlying mechanism remains unclear . In the present study , EAM was induced in rats and fenofibrate was administered to evaluate its short-term effects . The CD4 ( + ) T cells were purified from rats with EAM and PPARalpha ( -/- ) mice and determined the levels of IkappaBzeta , pNF-kappaBp65 and IL- The findings of the present study revealed that fenofibrate treatment improved the progression of EAM in rats , as evidenced by a decreased ratio of the heart weight to body weight , reduced inflammatory cell infiltration , and relieved cardiac function . It also inhibited the transcription levels of T helper 17 ( Th17 ) -related inflammatory cytokines , fibrosis-associated factors , and the expression of IkappaBzeta , and dose-dependently downregulated IkappaBzeta expression in differentiated Th17 cells from rats with EAM . The PPARalpha antagonist MK886 could reverse the effects in a dose-dependent manner . PPARalpha deficiency significantly upregulated IkappaBzeta and pNF-kappaBp65 expression in the CD4 ( + ) T cells of PPARalpha ( -/- ) mice . PPARalpha activation by three different PPARalpha agonists significantly inhibited IkappaBzeta and IL-6 levels . The results suggested that IkappaBzeta plays an important role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune myocarditis , and fenofibrate treatment ameliorates EAM by preventing myocardial inflammation and fibrosis , possibly through the PPARalpha/IkappaBzeta signaling pathway .
Atherosclerosis ( AS ) is a disease characterized by focal cholesterol accumulation and insoluble inflammation in arterial intima , leading to the formation of an atherosclerotic plaque consisting of lipids , cells , and fibrous matrix . The presence of plaque can restrict or obstruct blood flow , resulting in arterial stenosis and local mechanical microenvironment changes including flow shear stress , vascular matrix stiffness , and plaque structural stress . Neovascularization within the atherosclerotic plaque plays a crucial role in both plaque growth and destabilization , potentially leading to plaque rupture and fatal embolism . However , the exact interactions between neovessels and plaque remain unclear . In this review , we provide a comprehensive analysis of the origin of intraplaque neovessels , the contributing factors , underlying molecular mechanisms , and associated signaling pathways . We specifically emphasize the role of mechanical factors contributing to angiogenesis in atherosclerotic plaques . Additionally , we summarize the imaging techniques and therapeutic strategies for intraplaque neovessels to enhance our understanding of this field .
BACKGROUND : Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) is characterized by insulin resistance , which impairs the metabolism of carbohydrates , lipids , and proteins . Recent findings indicate that skeletal muscle atrophy , decreased muscle strength , and reduced muscle performance have become prevalent complications of diabetes . Additionally , dysfunction of cardiac autonomic nerves also leads to skeletal muscle impairment . These issues further exacerbate diabetes , thereby leading to a vicious cycle . This study investigates the association between muscle performance and cardiac autonomic neuropathy in middle-aged T2DM patients . MATERIAL AND METHODS : In this case-control study , we included 51 diagnosed T2DM patients aged 30-55 years , with a duration of T2DM less than 5 years and HbA1C level below 8% . We also included 51 age- , sex- , and BMI-matched healthy control subjects . Muscle performance was assessed by evaluating the core endurance through the trunk flexor endurance test ( TFET ) , trunk lateral endurance test ( TLET ) , trunk extensor endurance test ( TEET ) , along with hamstring muscle flexibility through the active knee extension ( AKE ) test . Cardiac autonomic function was evaluated using the heart rate variability test . Statistical analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism version The Mann-Whitney test was used to compare the two groups , and data were represented as median ( interquartile range ) . Values were considered statistically significant at P value </= RESULTS : We observed a significant decrease in core endurance ( TFET , TLET , TEET ) with P values < 001 , as well as reduced hamstring muscle flexibility shown by a decrease in the degree of AKE test with P value < 001 in the T2DM patients when compared with the controls . Furthermore , heart rate variability in both time domain parameters ( SDRR , CVRR , SDSD , RMSSD , pRR50% ) and frequency domain parameters ( Total power , VLF , LF , HF , LF/HF ) also showed significant decreases , with P values < 001 in the T2DM group compared to the control group . CONCLUSION : The observed decrease in muscle performance and heart rate variability parameters in middle-aged newly diagnosed T2DM patients suggests early skeletal muscle atrophy and cardiac autonomic dysfunction .
BACKGROUND : New research points to a complicated relationship between gallstone disease ( GSD ) , thyroid function , and lipid profiles . To better understand how to prevent and treat GSD , this study will look at how common thyroid abnormalities are among people with the diagnosis , as well as any dyslipidemias that may be present . MATERIAL AND METHODS : This is a cross-sectional observational study worked out at a tertiary care hospital in southern India ' s Department of General Surgery . We enrolled 60 persons with a GSD diagnosis . We divided patients with only gallstones and gallstones with common bile duct stones and thyroid function was classified as euthyroid , subclinical hypothyroidism , or clinical hypothyroidism . Results showing triglycerides >150 mg/dL and total cholesterol >200 mg/dL were judged high in the lipid profile evaluation . RESULTS : The majority of the cohort was between the ages of 51 and 60 , and there were 6% females and 4% males . Subclinical hypothyroidism affected 33% of individuals , while 67% were euthyroid . We did not find any cases of clinical hypothyroidism . A total of 100% of individuals with subclinical hypothyroidism had dyslipidemia , while only 5% of euthyroid patients did . Elevated total cholesterol levels were shown to be significantly correlated with subclinical hypothyroidism ( P < 05 ) . The total cholesterol levels of obese people were also noticeably greater than those of normal-weight persons ( P = 04 ) . There was no discernible relationship between thyroid function or dyslipidemia , and gallstone type ( alone vs . mixed with CBD stones ) . CONCLUSION : Knowing the status of thyroid function is essential to manage lipid abnormality in patients with gallstones even though there is no significant association with gallstones . Gallstone formation and lipid metabolism are both influenced by thyroid function status and its regulation . These results provide valuable insights for clinical practice in managing GSD .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES : Childhood obesity has become an epidemic , and morbid obesity affects a significant portion of the population in India . The most prevalent type of chronic liver ailment in overweight and obese children worldwide is nonalcoholic fatty liver disease . This study is undertaken to assess the prevalence of NAFLD and associated risk factor among overweight and obese children . METHODS : This cross-sectional study was carried out in 230 overweight and obese children aged 5-15 years , who visited the pediatric outpatient department of a tertiary care hospital in Jharkhand . Measurements included anthropometry , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , lipid profile and ultrasonography to diagnose NAFLD . The variables were compared between participants with and without NAFLD , and logistic regression analysis was performed . RESULTS : The prevalence of NAFLD was 44% among overweight and obese children , while BMI , history of hypertension in family , gestational hypertension , exclusive breastfeed , serum cholesterol , triglyceride , LDL-C , ALT and AST were statistically associated with participants with NAFLD . On multiple logistic regression analysis serum cholesterol , triglyceride , LDL-C and ALT were independently associated with NAFLD with odds ratio ( 95% confidence interval ) of 19 ( 3 - 1 , P value = 03 ) , 17 ( 6 - 200 , P value = 02 ) , 46 ( 9 - 7 , P value = 002 ) and 161 ( 4 - 6 , P value = 01 ) , respectively . CONCLUSION : An independent association was observed for serum cholesterol , triglyceride , LDL-C and ALT in overweight and obese children with NAFLD .
FABP3 and FABP7 are members of the fatty acid-binding protein ( FABP ) family that transport fatty acids to intracellular organelles , which are elevated in patients with Alzheimer disease ( AD ) . However , their role in the disease pathogenesis remain poorly understood . In a Drosophila model of AD , neuronal fabp knockdown inhibited autophagic flux and increased amyloid-beta ( Abeta ) aggregation , exacerbating neurodegeneration . Conversely , fabp overexpression had the opposite effect and improved memory . The modulation of Ecdysone-induced protein 75B ( Eip75B ) levels , the Drosophila homolog of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor , a lipid-activated nuclear receptor that functions as a transcription factor , affected the expression of autophagy-related genes and the role of fabp in Abeta pathology . These results suggest that fabp regulates Abeta pathology through autophagy by modulating Eip75B and highlight the importance of proper fatty acid transport in neurons for autophagy regulation and Abeta pathogenesis .
Malaria parasites encounter diverse conditions as they transition between mosquito and mammalian hosts . A characteristic of the sporozoite stage of the parasite is that once it enters the hepatocyte , it changes its morphology and metabolism . Motile-elongated sporozoites transform into round trophozoites , discard unnecessary organelles , undergo extensive replication , and mature into hepatic merozoites . However , the mechanisms of superfluous organelle elimination and apicoplast biogenesis are unclear . In our latest study , using a conditional mutagenesis system , we clarified the role of Atg7 during parasite metamorphosis in the liver . We found that cytosolic Atg7 is essential for the localization of Atg8 on the membrane and the development of parasites in the blood and liver stages . Parasites lacking Atg7 fail to lipidate Atg8 on the membrane , which leads to impaired exocytosis of micronemes , and parasites eventually fail to mature into hepatic merozoites . This work provides insights into the essential role of Atg7 in maintaining parasite cellular homeostasis during liver stage development .
In plants , a large part of the nutrients used to generate seed lipid and protein reserves is derived from both the degradation of macromolecules in source leaves and the transfer of small catabolic molecules like amino acids from the senescing leaves to the seeds . Studies of autophagy mutants in Arabidopsis showed that autophagy is a master player controlling 60% of the remobilization of nitrogen from senescing leaf tissues to developing seeds , and strongly impacting reserve deposition , especially in the protein to lipid ratio . Since autophagy is largely enhanced in leaves during senescence and in the seeds during maturation , we investigated the roles of autophagy in these sources and sink tissues , to identify checkpoints controlling seed filling and quality . Through gene complementation using tissue-specific promoters , we demonstrated that while autophagy regulates nitrogen flux to the seeds in source leaves , the autophagy taking place in seeds during their maturation is essential to reach the appropriate seed quality in terms of C and N storage . Overall , these results highlight the multiple roles of autophagy in the optimal development of the plant throughout its entire lifespan .
The E3-like complex Atg12-Atg5-Atg16 , which promotes Atg8 lipidation , is recruited to the autophagosomal membrane through the interaction of Atg16 with the PROPPIN/WIPI protein Atg21 , as well as by the binding of Atg12 to Atg17 , the scaffold protein of the Atg1 kinase complex in yeast . In order to gain insights into the molecular basis of Atg12-Atg17 interaction , we performed reverse two-hybrid screens to identify key-binding residues in both proteins and , based on these data , model the structure of this protein complex . Strikingly , we found that the Atg17 binding site in Atg12 overlaps with a PKA phosphorylation site and that PKA phosphorylation of Atg12 prevents Atg17 binding , revealing a new regulatory mechanism by which PKA regulates the assembly of the autophagy machinery .
INTRODUCTION : Previous research has established a connection between depression and an elevated risk of cardiovascular disease . In this study , we sought to examine the association between Life ' s Essential 8 ( LE8 ) , an updated metric for assessing cardiovascular health , and the prevalence and severity of depressive symptoms . MATERIAL AND METHODS : This investigation draws on data from 29 100 participants in the 2005-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey . LE8 was determined by eight metrics ( diet , physical activity ( PA ) , nicotine exposure , sleep quality , body mass index , blood lipid levels , blood glucose , and blood pressure ( BP ) ) , and was characterized as low , moderate , and high cardiovascular health ( CVH ) . We examined the association between LE8 scores and depression using multivariate logistic regression , adjusting for a range of sociodemographic , lifestyle , and health-related variables . RESULTS : Higher LE8 scores and CVH levels were associated with lower odds of depression . Each additional LE8 point correlated with 5% lower odds of depression ( p < 05 ) . Participants with low CVH had over 8-fold higher odds of depression compared to those with high CVH ( p < 05 ) . Those with moderate CVH had around 3-fold higher odds versus high CVH ( p < 05 ) . These associations persisted after adjustment for sociodemographics , health behaviors , and clinical variables . A higher LE8 displayed a negative association with all-cause mortality ( HR = 975 , 95% CI : 972 , 978 , p < 0001 ) and cardiovascular mortality ( HR = 987 , 95% CI : 981 , 993 , p < 0001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Higher adherence to LE8 lifestyle recommendations was associated with lower odds of depression in a nationally representative sample . Promoting LE8 may be an effective public health strategy to prevent depression .
At the bend and bifurcation of arteries prone to atherosclerosis , pulsatile blood retention may cause overstretch on the tube wall . It has been reported that more than half of the foam cells found in atherosclerotic plaques are derived from vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs ) , but the mechanism is not adequately understood . In this work , we used a microfluidic device to apply a cyclic stretch ( 15 % and 05 Hz ) on the VSMC for 24 h . The stretch caused a significant increase in the intracellular lipid accumulation , accompanying with the increased NOX1 and CD36 protein expression . On the other hand , inhibition of NOX1 activity , elimination of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , or knockdown of NOX1 expression could significantly inhibit intracellular lipid accumulation . In addition , the NOX1 upregulation caused by 15 % stretch was related to the JAK/STAT signaling pathway . Our results reveal a novel mechanism of VSMC foam cell formation caused by the upregulation of NOX
PURPOSE : Hypothyroidism increases the risk of cardiovascular disease . In recent years , it has been suggested that the Visceral Adiposity Index ( VAI ) and the Plasma Atherogenicity Index ( PAI ) may serve as markers of cardiovascular risk . This study aimed to investigate the potential utility of VAI and PAI as predictors of increased cardiovascular risk in patients with hypothyroidism . PATIENTS AND METHODS : A retrospective analysis was conducted on 134 participants , including 85 hypothyroid patients and 49 individuals with normal thyroid function who visited the Family Medicine Clinic of Konya Training and Research Hospital between March 2016 and June Sociodemographic characteristics , anthropometric measurements , blood lipid profiles , and thyroid hormone levels were analyzed for all participants . VAI and PAI levels were calculated . RESULTS : Among the participants , 111 ( 8% ) were female , and 23 ( 2% ) were male . In the hypothyroid group , triglycerides ( TG ) ( p=001 ) , Visceral Adiposity Index ( VAI ) ( p<001 ) , and Plasma Atherogenic Index ( PAI ) ( p<001 ) were significantly higher , in contrast high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) ( p<001 ) was substantially lower than in the control group . Patients were divided into three categories based on PAI levels : low , moderate , and high risk . Compared to the moderate-risk group , the high-risk group had higher weight ( p=007 ) , BMI ( p=012 ) , WC ( p=001 ) , TG ( p<001 ) , VAI ( p<001 ) , and PAI ( p<001 ) , but lower HDL ( p<001 ) . PAI showed a positive correlation with age , weight , BMI , WC , systolic and diastolic blood pressure , thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) , TG , total cholesterol , and VAI , and a negative correlation with HDL . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrates that cardiovascular risk is increased in hypothyroid patients , VAI and PAI are reliable markers for assessing cardiovascular disease risk in this population . These findings may aid primary care physicians in early identification and management of cardiovascular risk in hypothyroid patients . Limitations include the retrospective design and limited male representation in the sample .
INTRODUCTION : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is characterized by excessive lipid deposition in hepatocytes without a history of significant alcohol consumption . Pachymic acid ( Pac ) , a bioactive triterpenoid from Poria cocos , has shown promise in treating MASLD due to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory capabilities . This study aimed to elucidate the molecular impact and mechanisms of Pac in MASLD . METHODS : Male C57BL/6J mice were subjected to a high-fat diet ( HFD ) for 8 weeks , followed by a 4 weeks treatment with the Pac . Comprehensive assessments including physiological , biochemical , and histomorphological evaluations were performed post-treatment . Transcriptomic analysis of liver samples from normal control ( NC ) , HFD , and HFD + high-dose Pac ( Pac-H ) groups was conducted , with validation through Western blot , and immunofluorescence . RESULTS : HFD induced biochemical abnormalities and liver injury , which were significantly reversed by Pac , as evidenced by decreased plasma levels of AST ( Aspartate aminotransferase ) , ALT ( Alanine aminotransferase ) , TG ( Triglyceride ) , and TC ( Total cholesterol ) , and reduced hepatic TG and TC levels . Pac also mitigated lipid accumulation , peroxidation , and ferroptosis . Pac modulated the expression of PPARalpha ( Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ) , MAPKs ( Mitogen-activated protein kinases ) , and ferroptosis pathways , thereby ameliorating MASLD . DISCUSSION : The study demonstrated that Pac inhibited the MAPKs signaling pathway and reduced hepatic ferroptosis , alleviated steatosis through PPARalpha regulation , offering a potential therapeutic strategy for MASLD .
Adipocyte differentiation plays an important role in bone remodeling due to secretory factors that can directly modulate osteoblast and osteoclast , thus affecting overall bone mass and skeletal integrity . Excessive adipocyte differentiation within the bone marrow microenvironment can lead to decreased bone mass , eventually causing osteoporosis . The mechanical microenvironment of bone marrow , including fluid shear , maintains the balance of adipocyte and osteoblast differentiation during bone remodeling . However , how mechanical cues interact with long noncoding RNA ( lncRNA ) and regulate adipocyte differentiation remains unexplored . In this study , we investigated the mechanosensitive role of lncRNA MALAT1 during mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) adipocyte differentiation . By applying physiologically relevant shear stress , MSCs experienced morphological changes and adipocyte differentiation differences . Shear stress inhibits adipocyte differentiation of MSCs , demonstrated by reduced oil-red-o-stained lipid droplets . Silencing MALAT1 also results in reduced adipocyte differentiation . By leveraging a novel gapmer double stranded locked nuclei acid nanobiosensor , we showed that shear stress inhibits MALAT1 expression , with significantly reduced fluorescence intensity . Our findings indicate that shear stress influences adipocyte differentiation mainly through the downregulation of MALAT1 , highlighting a significant interplay between biophysical cues and lncRNAs . This interaction is crucial for understanding the complexities of bone remodeling and the potential therapeutic targeting of lncRNAs to treat bone-related disorders .
INTRODUCTION : Pregnane X Receptor ( PXR , NR1I2 ) is a ligand-dependent transcription factor belonging to the nuclear receptor superfamily , that can be activated by a wide variety of endogenous and exogenous ligands . It is a major actor of the endo- and xeno-biotic detoxification process . It also regulates biological processes such as lipid metabolism in large number of tissues . Pxr was shown to be expressed in human , mouse , rat and pig testis , however its roles in the regulation of testicular functions have been little explored so far . METHODS : To determine the potential involvement of PXR in the regulation of steroidogenesis , experiments were performed on a wild type ( MLTC-1WT ) and a Pxr knock-down ( MLTC-1PxrKD ) mouse Leydig cell line ( MLTC-1 cells ) , treated with a PXR agonist ( SR-12813 ) in acute and chronic conditions . RESULTS : Our analyses confirmed the presence of Pxr transcripts in the mouse testis , particularly in Leydig cells . In addition , A lower testosterone concentration was measured in MLTC-1PxrKD cells compared to wild type cells . Moreover , both acute and chronic stimulation of MLTC-1WT cells with SR-12813 led to a decrease in testosterone concentration , associated with a lower expression of some steroidogenic genes . This negative impact of SR-12813 on Leydig cell steroidogenesis was counteracted by Pxr knock down . DISCUSSION : Overall , these results support the involvement of PXR in the regulation of testosterone homeostasis in mouse Leydig cells and open new avenues of research into the involvement of this receptor in the deleterious effects of certain endocrine disruptors on the steroidogenic activity of Leydig cells .
BACKGROUND : Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory condition of the skin that can be related to a variety of other conditions , including cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome . Growth differentiation factor-15 ( GDF-15 ) is a cytokine that reacts to cellular stress . GDF-15 serum levels may have clinical uses in a variety of inflammatory and cardiovascular conditions . OBJECTIVES : To determine the levels of GDF-15 in the serum of patients with generalized plaque psoriasis ( GPP ) and its correlation with the metabolic syndrome . PATIENTS AND METHODS : This case-control study included 50 patients with GPP and 50 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers as controls . A general examination was performed , with a particular emphasis on measurements of body mass index , circumference of the waist , and blood pressure . Psoriasis severity was assessed using the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index ( PASI ) score . In addition , laboratory tests , including fasting blood sugar , lipid profile , and serum GDF-15 level measurement , were made . RESULTS : Patients had significantly higher median GDF-15 levels compared to controls ( P < 001 ) . GDF-15 showed a substantial correlation with both disease duration and PASI score ( P < 001 for each ) . GDF-15 levels were considerably greater in participants with metabolic syndrome compared with those without ( P = 01 ) . LIMITATION : The relatively small sample size could be a disadvantage and drawback of the study . CONCLUSION : Serum GDF-15 levels are linked to the severity of psoriasis and the associated metabolic disorders .
BACKGROUND : Dietary measures have been used as an adjunctive therapy in the management of psoriasis . Intermittent fasting ( IF ) is an eating pattern in which energy is not consumed for a fixed duration , resulting in metabolic switch from liver-derived glucose to adipose-derived ketones . The data regarding effectiveness of IF in psoriasis are limited . AIM AND OBJECTIVES : The aim of this study was to assess efficacy of IF in patients with chronic plaque psoriasis . The primary outcome of the study was change in psoriasis severity as measured by psoriasis area and severity index ( PASI ) at 28 weeks . The secondary outcome measures were change in metabolic parameters and biomarkers for atherosclerosis in each group . PATIENTS AND METHODS : The study was designed as a randomized parallel group trial . Clinical parameters , psoriasis severity , fasting and postprandial blood sugar , lipid profile , high sensitivity C-reactive protein ( hsCRP ) , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , and interleukin 6 ( IL-6 ) , were measured using standard methods at baseline , 16 weeks , and 28 weeks . Patients were randomized to receive methotrexate in the dose of 3 mg/Kg/week with or without intermittent fasting . RESULTS : A total of 120 patients were randomized in two groups of 60 each : group 1 ( methotrexate ) and group 2 ( methotrexate and intermittent fasting ) . The mean age , mean duration of disease , PASI , and dermatology life quality index ( DLQI ) in group 1 were 5 ( +/-9 ) years , 06 ( +/-5 ) years , 1 ( +/-7 ) , and 33 ( +/-5 ) , respectively . The mean age , mean duration of disease , PASI , and DLQI in group 2 were and 9 ( +/-6 ) years , 91 ( +/-2 ) years , 16 ( +/-3 ) , and 9 ( +/-3 ) , respectively . There was no statistically significant difference in baseline parameters in two groups . In both the groups , there was a statistically significant difference in PASI , DLQI , VEGF , and hsCRP from baseline to 16 and 28 weeks . At week 16 , 44 ( 3% ) patients in group 1 and 47 ( 3% ) in group 2 achieved PASI50 ( P = 8 ) . At week 28 , 16 ( 36% ) in group 1 and 27 ( 4% ) patients in group 2 maintained PASI50 ( P = 054 ) . There was a statistically significant weight and waist circumference reduction at 16 weeks and 28 weeks in group There was a statistically significant reduction in VEGF , IL6 , and hsCRP at 28 weeks in group 2 as compared to group LIMITATIONS : The small sample size and loss to follow-up are major limitations of the study . CONCLUSION : Intermittent fasting using 16 : 8 protocol is easy to perform and a safe and effective adjuvant for managing severe chronic plaque psoriasis . It helps in maintaining remission and results in improvement in metabolic parameters and markers of vascular inflammation .
The release of CCL5 and CXCL10 is essential for recruiting cytotoxic immune cells into the tumor microenvironment and enhancing the efficacy of cancer immunotherapy . Type I IFNs , particularly IFNbeta , activate signaling pathways that induce the expression of these chemokines . In our recent study , we explored the impact and underlying mechanisms of inhibiting the kinase activity of VPS34 , a key lipid kinase in the autophagy/endosomal trafficking system , on the expression of CCL5 and CXCL10 in preclinical cancer mouse models . Using NanoString gene expression technology , we analyzed tumors from mice treated with the VPS34 inhibitor SB02024 and demonstrated that the expression of CCL5 and CXCL10 is increased through a cGAS-STING-dependent mechanism within cancer cells . In vitro , both pharmacological inhibition and genetic targeting of VPS34 enhance cGAS-STING-mediated expression and secretion of CCL5 and CXCL10 across various tumor cell types . In vivo , treatment with the VPS34 inhibitor SB02024 enhances the positive effects of the STING agonist ADU-S100 in melanoma tumor-bearing mice . Thus , our study suggests that VPS34 inhibitors could be used to enhance STING-based anticancer therapies . ABBREVIATIONS : CCL5 ( C-C motif chemokine 5 ) ; CXCL10 ( C-X-C motif chemokine 10 ) ; IFN ( interferon ) ; VPS34 ( vacuolar protein sorting 34 ) ; cGAS ( cyclic GMP-AMP Synthase ) ; STING ( stimulator of interferon genes protein ) ; cGAMP ( 2 ' 3 ' -cyclic guanosine monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate ) .
Protein ATG8ylation refers to a post-translational modification involving covalent attachment of ubiquitin-like autophagy-related protein ATG8 ( LC3/GABARAP ) to other cellular proteins , with reversal mediated by ATG4 proteases . While lipid ATG8ylation is important for autophagosome formation and mechanistically well-characterized , little is known about the mechanism of protein ATG8ylation . Here , we investigated the conjugation machinery of protein ATG8ylation in CRISPR/Cas9-engineered knockout human cell lines , utilizing a deconjugation-resistant ( Q116P G120 ) form of MAP1LC3B . We report that protein ATG8ylation requires the E1-like activating enzyme ATG7 and E2-like conjugating enzyme ATG3 , in common with ATG8 lipidation . However , in contrast , the E3-like ATG12-ATG5-ATG16L1 complex involved in lipidation is dispensable for protein ATG8ylation , since ATG5 knockout cells can form ATG8ylated protein conjugates . Further , we uncover that ATG7 itself is a target of ATG8ylation . Overall , our work provides crucial insight into the mechanism of protein ATG8ylation , distinguishing it from ATG8 lipidation , which will aid investigating its functional role .
GABARAP , like other ATG8 proteins , is a ubiquitin-like modifier and its C-terminal lipid conjugation enables association with cellular membranes . To prevent interference with the lipidation process , N-terminal fluorescent protein ( FP ) tagging strategies have become the standard for studying ATG8 localization and function in living cells , significantly contributing to our understanding of this protein family ' s multifaceted roles . We employed live cell imaging with particular emphasis on a GABARAP split-tandem construct , GABARAP ( G116A ) -mTagBFP2-GABARAP ( G-B-G ) , which retains both a free N-terminus and a lipidation-competent c-terminus , while bivalence creates a gain in affinity conferred by avidity . Notably , reminiscent of early in vitro studies demonstrating an interaction of GABARAP and tubulin , our results revealed a robust association of G-B-G with the microtubule network in living cells . We show that the presence of several basic residues in the amino-terminal helical subdomain of GABARAP and avidity emerged as essential for robust MT association , whereas lipidation ability was not decisive . Interestingly , while the position of the FP-tag had little influence on the result , the nature of the FP itself was crucial , with mTagBFP2 being required for tracking GABARAP tandems in the vicinity of MTs . Though artificial effects cannot be excluded , we assume that G-B-G , with its increased avidity , can give visibility to processes that are based on inherently weak interactions , and thus can help elucidate potential roles of GABARAP e . g . in microtubule-associated processes that are integral to autophagy-related and -unrelated cellular transport .
Positive-strand RNA viruses , which are important pathogens of humans , animals and plants , subvert cellular membranes and induce de novo membrane proliferation to generate viral replication organelles ( VROs ) that support virus replication . Tomato bushy stunt virus ( TBSV ) , an extensively-studied plant virus replicating in yeast model host and plants , hijacks ATG2 ( autophagy-related 2 ) , a lipid transfer protein ( LTP ) that transports lipids between adjacent organelles at membrane contact sites , for the biogenesis of their membranous VROs . Subversion of ATG2 by TBSV is important to enrich VRO membranes with phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) , phosphatidylserine ( PS ) and the phosphoinositide phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate [PIP] , which are all required for viral replication . TBSV replication protein directly interacts with ATG2 leading to recruitment to VRO membranes independently of the autophagy machinery .
Much is still unknown about microautophagy and its regulators . In our recent paper , one such regulator of microautophagy , the lipid kinase PIKfyve , is described . Previously it was found that treating cells with agents like lysomotropic drugs or proton ionophores , which alter lysosomal osmotic potential and pH , leads to a form of microautophagy that selectively degrades transmembrane proteins . Induction of this type of microautophagy is linked to a lysosomal stress response that involves the targeting of macroautophagy proteins , like ATG8s , to the lysosome membrane , through a mechanism called CASM . We found that CASM-induced microautophagy turns over ATG8s and other lysosomal membrane proteins , and requires PIKfyve activity functioning downstream of ATG8 lipidation . The lysosome biogenesis transcription factor TFEB is induced in parallel to microautophagy , in a CASM-dependent , but PIKfyve-independent manner . These findings demonstrate that stressors that engage CASM cause selective turnover by microautophagy that is coordinated with lysosome biogenesis through a mechanism that is separable through PIKfyve .
AIMS : Intracoronary optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) provides detailed information on coronary lesions , but interpretation of OCT images is time-consuming and subject to interobserver variability . The aim of this study was to develop and validate a deep learning-based multiclass semantic segmentation algorithm for OCT ( OCT-AID ) . METHODS AND RESULTS : A reference standard was obtained through manual multiclass annotation ( guidewire artefact , lumen , side branch , intima , media , lipid plaque , calcified plaque , thrombus , plaque rupture , and background ) of OCT images from a representative subset of pullbacks from the PECTUS-obs study . Pullbacks were randomly divided into a training and internal test set . An additional independent dataset was used for external testing . In total , 2808 frames were used for training and 218 for internal testing . The external test set comprised 392 frames . On the internal test set , the mean Dice score across nine classes was 659 overall and 757 on the true-positive frames , ranging from 281 to 989 per class . Substantial to almost perfect agreement was achieved for frame-wise identification of both lipid ( kappa=817 , 95% CI 743-891 ) and calcified plaques ( kappa=795 , 95% CI 703-887 ) . For plaque quantification ( e . g . lipid arc , calcium thickness ) , intraclass correlations of 664-884 were achieved . In the external test set , kappa-values for lipid and calcified plaques were 720 ( 95% CI 640-800 ) and 851 ( 95% CI 794-908 ) , respectively . CONCLUSION : The developed multiclass semantic segmentation method for intracoronary OCT images demonstrated promising capabilities for various classes , while having included difficult frames , such as those containing artefacts or destabilized plaques . This algorithm is an important step towards comprehensive and standardized OCT image interpretation .
INTRODUCTION : Male pattern hair loss ( MPHL ) , also known as androgenetic alopecia ( AGA ) , is a common disorder primarily caused by dihydrotestosterone ( DHT ) . The Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) has approved two 5-alpha reductase ( 5-AR ) inhibitors-finasteride and dutasteride-for treating this condition . However , recent studies have reported adverse sexual side effects and issues with sperm production in young men using these medications . There are also recommendations for effectively treating hair loss with natural remedies , such as Urtica dioica ( nettle ) , Serenoa repens ( saw palmetto ) , and Trigonella foenum-graecum ( fenugreek ) that is mainly used for diminish the hair loss in the traditional medicine . Research shows that these herbal formulations and plant extracts may help reduce hair loss . However , the concentration of active compounds in these herbal extracts is often low , necessitating a large extract volume to achieve noticeable effects on hair growth . Although many studies have investigated the effects of these herbal extracts on hair growth , fewer studies focus on the specific compounds influencing the molecular mechanisms of hair loss , particularly the inhibition of 5-AR . METHODS : For the first time , we aimed to applied a computational study to explore the phytochemicals extracted from these herbs to identify compounds that can effectively bind to and inhibit 5-AR . Additionally , we assessed the stability of the ligands encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles ( LNP ) by conducting molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations of the LNP-encapsulated ligands . We utilized an online database to identify compounds from the extracts of nettle , saw palmetto , and fenugreek . We then analyzed their binding affinity to 5-AR using computational techniques . RESULTS : We found that 6 molecules-Jamogenin , Neodiosgenin , Chlorogenic acid , Rutin , Riboflavin , and Ursolic acid-are effective in binding to 5-AR . Additionally , our in silico studies revealed that vesicle-entrapped JAMOGENIN , which has a stronger bond with 5-AR , is more stable than its unencapsulated form . DISCUSSION : Therefore , these 6 molecules , particularly JAMOGENIN , should be considered for experimental analysis in both their unencapsulated and nanocarrier-encapsulated states to promote hair follicle growth .
BACKGROUND : Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) progression is closely linked to dysregulation of the ubiquitin-proteasome system , particularly aberrant ubiquitination processes governing protein degradation and cell cycle control . As a pivotal E3 ubiquitin ligase , COP1 mediates substrate-specific ubiquitination to regulate protein stability . However , its functional role in RCC remains poorly characterized . This study investigates how COP1 drives RCC malignancy and explores its underlying molecular mechanisms . METHODS : We analyzed the expression of COP1 in RCC cells and its relationship with patient overall survival ( OS ) in databases . The CCK-8 assay was used to detect the effect of COP1 on the proliferation of RCC cells , while the Transwell assay was used to assess the impact of COP1 on the migration and invasion of RCC cells . We employed mass spectrometry , co-immunoprecipitation , Western blot , and RT-qPCR to explore the target proteins that interact with COP1 and their interaction modes . After inducing with ferroptosis inducers , we measured the effect of COP1 on lipid ROS levels in RCC cells . Finally , we validated the role of COP1 in RCC using in vivo experiments . RESULTS : COP1 was significantly correlated with poor patient prognosis . Functional studies demonstrated that COP1 overexpression markedly increased RCC cell proliferation by 65% ( 786-O ) and 58% ( ACHN ) ( p < 001 ) and enhanced migration/invasion ( p < 01 ) , while COP1 knockdown suppressed these malignant phenotypes by 40-50% . Mechanistically , COP1 directly bound ACSL4 and promoted its K48-linked ubiquitination , reducing ACSL4 protein stability by 70% ( p < 001 ) and suppressing ferroptosis , as evidenced by decreased lipid ROS levels ( p < 01 ) and reversal of ferroptosis inhibition by ferrostatin- In vivo , COP1 overexpression accelerated tumor growth in xenograft models , with a 5-fold increase in tumor volume compared to controls ( p < 001 ) , accompanied by reduced ACSL4 expression and elevated Ki67 proliferation index . These effects were further amplified by the ferroptosis inhibitor ferrostatin-1 , underscoring COP1 ' s role in driving tumor progression through ferroptosis suppression . CONCLUSION : Our study establishes COP1 as a critical driver of RCC progression by suppressing ferroptosis through ubiquitin-mediated degradation of ACSL4 , thereby providing a novel theoretical foundation for targeted therapeutic strategies in RCC .
Hair loss is a complex multifactorial process . The mechanisms by which caffeine and adenosine act against hair loss have been extensively researched , but little is known about their effects on the microbiome and lipidome of the scalp . Hair loss may be associated with the status of scalp microbiota and lipids . Further investigation is warranted to determine whether caffeine and adenosine can regulate scalp microbiota and lipids and thus help to prevent hair loss . The objective of this study was to assess the effect of shampoo containing caffeine and adenosine on the scalp microbiome and lipidome in subjects experiencing hair loss who were aged between 18 and 60 years . The study was a randomized , single-blind and parallel comparison trial involving full scalp treatment , which was conducted among 30 subjects experiencing hair loss . Samples were collected from subjects at baseline and at 12 weeks ( +/-3 days ) . Microbiomes were analysed via 16S rDNA and ITS1 sequencing . Lipidome analysis was carried out using ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( UPLC-MS/MS ) . At 12 weeks , significant clinical characteristics indicating an anti-hair loss effect were evident . Abundances of Pseudomonas , Escherichia-Shigella and Malassezia all decreased in the experimental group , whereas those of Talaromyces and Cutibacterium increased . In addition , levels of triglyceride ( TG ) , diglyceride ( DG ) , ceramide ( Cer ) and ceramide-1-phosphate ( CerP ) were all significantly impacted in the experimental group . Furthermore , abundances of lipid metabolites were tightly correlated with those of Escherichia-Shigella and Talaromyces . Caffeine and adenosine may enhance the anti-hair loss process through their effects on the lipidome and microbiome of the scalp .
AIMS : Autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) is a complex neurodevelopmental condition arising from the interplay of genetic predispositions and environmental influences . Recent studies have suggested that vitamin D ( VitD ) supplementation play a role in reducing the risk of ASD and alleviating some of its core symptoms . However , variations in individual responses to VitD due to biological heterogeneity have led to inconsistent clinical outcomes , and the precise molecular mechanisms through which VitD might exert its effects on ASD remain poorly understood . METHODS : We investigated the effects of calcitriol , the biologically active form of VitD , on ASD-associated phenotypes in BTBR mice , a well-established autism model . Behavioral assessments were used to evaluate social and repetitive behaviors . Mechanistic insights were obtained through RNA sequencing , immunohistochemistry , biochemical assays , and stripe guidance assays . RESULTS : Calcitriol supplementation significantly improved autism-like behaviors in BTBR mice , alleviating hippocampal hypoplasia and correcting axon guidance abnormalities . These effects were mediated by modulation of the EfnA4-PI3K signaling pathway in hippocampal neural progenitor cells and other brain regions , highlighting its role in neurodevelopmental processes . CONCLUSION : Our findings demonstrate that calcitriol targets axon-guidance-related signaling pathways , providing a theoretical framework and potential clinical strategy for targeted ASD interventions .
BACKGROUND : Remnant cholesterol ( remnant-C ) has been linked to the risk of various vascular diseases , but the association between remnant-C and end-stage renal disease ( ESRD ) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) remains unclear . METHODS : Using a nationwide cohort , a total of 2 , 537 , 149 patients with T2DM without ESRD , who had participated in the national health screening in 2009 , were enrolled and followed up until Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels were assessed by the Martin-Hopkins method , and remnant-C was calculated as total cholesterol-LDL-C-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . RESULTS : During a median follow-up period of 3 years , 26 , 246 patients with T2DM ( 03% ) developed ESRD . Participants in the upper quartile of remnant-C had a higher risk of ESRD , with hazard ratios of 12 ( 95% confidence interval [CI] , 08 to 17 ) , 20 ( 95% CI , 15 to 24 ) , and 33 ( 95% CI , 26 to 41 ) in the second , third , and fourth quartile , compared with the lowest quartile , in multivariable-adjusted analyses . The positive association between remnant-C and ESRD remained consistent , irrespective of age , sex , presence of pre-existing comorbidities , and use of anti-dyslipidemic medications . The increased risk of ESRD was more pronounced in high-risk subgroups , including those with hypertension , chronic kidney disease , obesity , and a longer duration of diabetes . CONCLUSION : These findings suggest that remnant-C profiles in T2DM have a predictive role for future progression of ESRD , independent of traditional risk factors for renal dysfunction . FAU - Roh , Eun
Over the past two decades , ultrasound has advanced as a non-invasive drug delivery method . However , cavitation may cause cytoskeletal damage and cell death . This study numerically analyzes a compressible lipid-coated bubble near flexible tissue using Lattice Boltzmann and finite element methods . At 200 and 400 KPa ultrasound pressures , results show increased shear stress , boundary deformation , and bubble dynamics . The elastic boundary raises the bubble ' s resonance frequency . Shear stress rises from 09 to 61 KPa and 11 to 1 KPa during compression and expansion . A multi-pseudo-potential LBM improves cavitation modeling , revealing how proximity to cells intensifies pressure effects . FAU - Doustikhah , Ramyar
PURPOSE : To establish and optimize abdominal deuterium MR spectroscopic imaging in conjunction with orally administered H-labeled molecules . METHODS : A flexible transmit-receive surface coil was used to image naturally abundant deuterium signal in phantoms and healthy volunteers and after orally administered HO in a patient with a benign renal tumor ( oncocytoma ) . RESULTS : Water and lipid peaks were fitted with high confidence from both unlocalized spectra and from voxels within the liver , kidney , and spleen on spectroscopic imaging . Artifacts were minimal , despite the high HO concentration in the stomach immediately after ingestion , which can be problematic with the use of a volume coil . CONCLUSION : We have shown the feasibility of abdominal deuterium MR spectroscopic imaging at 3 T using a flexible surface coil . Water measurements were obtained in healthy volunteers , and images were acquired in a patient with a renal tumor after drinking HO . The limited depth penetration of the surface coil may have advantages in characterizing early uptake of orally administered agents in abdominal organs , despite the high concentrations in the stomach which can pose challenges with other coil combinations .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) has been considered a main health concern worldwide , and Platycodon grandiflorum ( PG ) has been traditionally employed in ethnopharmacology for managing hepatic metabolic disorders . This study aimed to elucidate the potential effect of PG on NAFLD in rats , and furthermore , the mechanism was explored . PG supplementation significantly increased body weight , serum total cholesterol , triglycerides , and LDL-cholesterol levels in HFD-induced obese rats ( p < 05 ) . In addition , HFD-induced lipid accumulation and inflammatory response in the liver were also suppressed . Then , the factors contributing to the regulating effect of PG on NAFLD were estimated by using network pharmacology and RNA sequencing . Moreover , western blotting and reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) suggested that PG treatment obviously downregulated the expression levels of nuclear factor-kappaB ( NF-kappaB ) , Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) , myeloid differentiation primary response protein 88 ( MyD88 ) , and inhibitor I kappa B alpha ( IkappaBalpha ) , whereas it upregulated the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ( PPARgamma ) . Taken together , these findings corroborated the modulatory capacity of PG on NAFLD rats through regulating inflammatory response via PPARgamma and TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway .
PURPOSE : To investigate the TE dependence of the edited 2-hydroxyglutarate ( 2HG ) signal , its separation from co-edited glutamate plus glutamine ( Glx ) , and fit accuracy in the presence of nuisance signals using a MEGA-PRESS sequence . METHODS : Simulations were performed at TEs 70-160 ms to assess the signal intensity and 2HG-Glx overlap as a function of TE . The effect of the 2HG-Glx spectral overlap on the fit accuracy of 2HG was evaluated on simulated 2HG-edited spectra with in vivo parameter variations . Data were acquired at TEs of 70 and 90 ms in 13 glioma patients to estimate the TE-dependence of the 2HG and Glx signal intensity and at a TE of 120 ms in eight glioma patients to estimate the in vivo 2HG , Glx , and water T2 relaxation times . RESULTS : A TE of 90 ms was found to produce a maximal 2HG integral , which was 23% larger than that at a TE of 70 ms in vivo without a significant increase in 2HG-Glx overlap . Lipid and residual water were 26% and 16% lower , respectively , at a TE of 90 ms versus 70 ms . Fit-quality numbers were 49% lower at a TE of 90 ms versus 70 ms , indicating enhanced fits at a TE of 90 ms . The in vivo T2 relaxation times of 2HG , Glx , and water were 264 , 177 , and 110 ms , respectively . CONCLUSION : A TE of 90 ms was best with a maximal 2HG signal , minimal 2HG-Glx overlap , and minimal residual water and lipid contamination .
Macroautophagy ( hereafter autophagy ) , a major intracellular catabolic process , is evolutionarily conserved from yeasts to mammals , and is associated with a broad range of human diseases . Autophagy is morphologically characterized by the formation of double-membrane autophagosomes . ATG9A , a multi-spanning transmembrane protein and lipid scramblase , is a core component of the autophagy machinery that complements membrane sources and equilibrates lipids across membrane bilayers . Here , we report that palmitoyltransferase ZDHHC5 is indispensable for autophagosome nucleation and subsequent autophagosome formation . Upon autophagy induction , ZDHHC5 is internalized from the plasma membrane into intracellular compartments via clathrin-mediated endocytosis . This enzyme activates ATG9A S-palmitoylation at cysteine 155/156 , which orchestrates the interaction of ATG9A with the heterotetrameric adaptor protein complex family member AP4E1/AP-4epsilon and subsequent trafficking from the trans-Golgi network to endosomal compartments . Functionally , impairment of ATG9A S-palmitoylation results in defects in autophagy initiation and autophagosome formation . These findings identify a regulatory mechanism that coordinates ATG9A-binding with AP4E1 and vesicular trafficking events through ATG9A S-palmitoylation by ZDHHC5 , thereby ensuring the spatiotemporal fidelity of membrane trafficking and maintenance of autophagic homeostasis . FAU - Xia , Fan
BACKGROUND : Despite guideline recommendations , the prevalence of laboratory testing among patients newly diagnosed with hypertension ( HTN ) in the United States remains unknown . This study evaluated the prevalence of guideline-recommended laboratory testing in patients with newly diagnosed HTN . METHODS : We conducted a retrospective analysis using the TriNetX database of adults >/=18 years newly diagnosed with HTN between 2018- Patients were stratified by age , sex , race , and ethnicity . The primary outcome was prevalence of laboratory testing within six months of diagnosis , including complete blood count ( CBC ) , basic/complete metabolic panel ( BMP/CMP ) , lipid profile , thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) , fasting glucose , urinalysis , and electrocardiogram ( ECG ) . RESULTS : Among 2 , 052 , 702 patients ( mean age 3 years , 3% female ) , testing completion rates were : CBC ( 8% ) , BMP/CMP ( 7% ) , lipid profile ( 0% ) , TSH ( 8% ) , fasting glucose ( 6% ) , urinalysis ( 9% ) , and ECG ( 3% ) . Older age ( >/=65 years ) was associated with higher completion rates for CBC ( HR 19 , 95% CI 19-20 ) , BMP/CMP ( HR 16 , 95% CI 16-17 ) , TSH ( HR 14 , 95% CI 13-15 ) , fasting glucose ( HR 34 , 95% CI 32-35 ) , urinalysis ( HR 19 , 95% CI 18-20 ) , and ECG ( HR 27 , 95% CI 26-28 ) . Female sex was associated with lower rates for CBC ( HR 99 , 95% CI 98-99 ) , BMP/CMP ( HR 96 , 95% CI 95-96 ) , lipid profile ( HR 90 , 95% CI 89-90 ) , ECG ( HR 96 , 95% CI 96-97 ) but higher for TSH ( HR 26 , 95% CI 25-17 ) and urinalysis ( HR 13 , 95% CI 12-14 ) . CONCLUSION : The prevalence of guideline-recommended laboratory testing among newly diagnosed HTN patients is low , with disparities across age , sex , race , and ethnicity .
Phosphorus is an essential macronutrient for plant growth and development . Under phosphate ( Pi ) starvation conditions , plants activate a series of adaptive responses , among which reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) accumulation in root tissues represents a notable yet poorly characterized phenomenon . This study investigated the regulatory role of hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) in rice adaptation to Pi deficiency through pharmacological intervention using potassium iodide ( KI ) , a specific HO scavenger . Physiological analysis revealed that root-specific HO depletion via KI treatment significantly impaired both Pi uptake and root growth under Pi-deficient conditions . Transcriptomic profiling demonstrated that HO elimination substantially modulated the expression of 196 Pi starvation-responsive genes , particularly those involved in SPX-mediated phosphate sensing , extracellular acid phosphatases ( APase ) biosynthesis , high-affinity phosphate transporters , lipid metabolism enzymes , and redox homeostasis maintenance . Subsequent biochemical validation confirmed that both KI and diphenyleneiodonium ( DPI ) treatments suppressed Pi-starvation-induced APase activity and compromised Pi uptake ability . Notably , comparative analysis with the phr1/2/3 triple mutant revealed a 24% overlap in differentially expressed genes between HO and PHR-deficient plants , with 90% of shared genes exhibiting congruent expression patterns . These findings collectively establish that HO serves as a pivotal signaling mediator in the Pi starvation regulatory network , orchestrating metabolic reprogramming and developmental adaptation to Pi stress in rice .
In this study a method for the simultaneous determination of 22 organic ultraviolet absorbers OUVs in human serum was established by combining protein precipitation technology PPT efficiency lipid removal technology ELR and ultra performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry UPLC-MS/MS . The OUVs include five benzophenone compounds five benzotriazole compounds two cinnamate ester compounds and their three metabolites two salicylate compounds two camphor derivative compounds one triazine compound one dibenzoylmethane compound and one amino aminobenzoic acid derivative compound . Chromatography was performed using an Acquity BEH C column 100 mmx1 mm 7 mum gradient elution was carried out using methanol-water and methanol-1% ammonia water as the mobile phases . Compounds were detected in both positive and negative electrospray ionization ESI ( + ) /ESI (  )  modes using multiple reaction monitoring MRM and quantified using stable-isotope internal standards . The experimental results showed that the 22 target compounds exhibited good linear relationships within their respective linear ranges with the correlation coefficients r>/=999 The method detection limits MDLs ranged from 02 to 48 ng/mL and the method quantification limits MQLs ranged from 02 to 60 ng/mL . At the three spiked levels of low medium and high the spiked recoveries of the 22 target analytes ranged from 9% to 1% the intra-day precisions were from 5% to 4% and the inter-day precisions were from 6% to 5% . After correction by the stable-isotope internal standard method the matrix effects of the 22 target analytes in fetal bovine serum were 0%9% . The developed method was successfully used to detect 22 OUVs in 110 human serum samples . With the exception of 3-benzylidene camphor 3-BC 2-2H-benzotriazol-2-yl-4-methyl-6-2-propenylphenol UV-9 4-methylbenzylidene camphor 4-MBC 22 ' -dihydroxy-4-methoxybenzophenone BP-8 and 24-dihydroxybenzophenone BP-1 which were not detected the remaining 17 substances were detected with overall detection rates of 9%-5% and the detection levels were <MQL7 ng/mL . The developed analytical method is simple convenient highly sensitive and is expected to become an effective tool for quantifying 22 OUVs in human serum . FAU - Bao , De-Jun
BACKGROUND : Mitophagy is an essential cellular autophagic process which maintains mitochondrial homeostasis , but its role in high fat diet ( HFD ) -induced lipid accumulation is unclear in the yellow catfish . Thus , this study aimed to elucidate mechanism of mitochondria mediating HFD-induced hepatic fat accumulation . RESULTS : In the present study , yellow catfish were fed three diets with dietary fat at 31% ( low fat ; LFD , control ) , 03% ( middle fat ; MFD ) and 32% ( high fat ; HFD ) , respectively , for 8 weeks . High dietary fat addition raised hepatic lipid accumulation , and declined mRNA and protein levels of Parkin-dependent mitophagy , down-regulated the Parkin protein expression and the estrogen-related receptor alpha ( Erralpha ) ubiquitination , and induced Erralpha protein levels ; fatty acid ( FA ) incubation reduced Parkin-dependent mitophagy , inhibited Erralpha ubiquitination and increased Erralpha protein expression , and raised TG accumulation . Furthermore , yellow catfish hepatocytes were isolated and cultured . Nicotinamide mononucleotide , N-acetyl-L-cysteine , Parkin and erralpha siRNA knockdown were used under FA incubation , respectively . Parkin downregulation mediated FA incubation-induced TG accumulation and mitoautophagic inhibition ; Parkin ubiquitinated Erralpha , and K63 was an important ubiquitination site for deubiquitinating Parkin activity ; Erralpha targets fas , acca and ppargamma genes , whose activation contributed to FA-induced lipogenesis and lipid accumulation . Thus , high fat diet ( HFD ) and FA incubation inhibited Parkin activity , suppressed mitophagy and activated Erralpha pathway , and induced hepatic lipogenic metabolism and lipotoxicity . CONCLUSIONS : Overall , our study provided new targets against HFD-induced hepatic lipid accumulation and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease in the vertebrates .
BACKGROUND : Recent studies emphasize the significance of copper dyshomeostasis in neurodegenerative diseases , such as Alzheimer ' s and Parkinson ' s , thereby highlighting the role of copper in neurotoxicity . Cuproptosis , a novel mechanism of copper-dependent cell death , remains underexplored , particularly concerning environmental pollutants like polystyrene nanoplastics ( PS-NPs ) . While PS-NPs are recognized for inducing neurotoxicity through various forms of cell death , including apoptosis and ferroptosis , their potential to trigger neuronal cuproptosis has not yet been investigated . This study aims to determine whether exposure to PS-NPs induces neurotoxicity via cuproptosis and to explore the preliminary molecular mechanisms involved , thereby addressing this significant knowledge gap . METHODS : Seven-week-old male C57BL/6 mice were exposed to PS-NPs at dose of 5 mg/kg , and were co-treated with the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine ( NAC ) . Complementary in vitro experiments were conducted using SH-SY5Y neuronal cells exposed to PS-NPs at a concentration of 75 mg/mL , with interventions that included the copper chelator tetrathiomolybdate ( TTM ) , NAC , and the MAPK inhibitor PD RESULTS : Exposure to PS-NPs significantly increased cerebral copper accumulation ( P < 05 ) and induced cuproptosis , characterized by lipid-acylated DLAT oligomerization , dysregulation of cuproptosis regulators ( FDX1 , LIAS , HSP70 ) , and mitochondrial damage . In murine models , PS-NPs elicited neurotoxicity , as evidenced by neuronal loss , decreased Nissl body density , impaired synaptic plasticity , and suppressed oxidative stress markers ( GSH , SOD , Nrf2 ) , alongside activation of the ERK-MAPK pathway , ultimately resulting in deficits in learning and memory . Treatment with NAC alleviated these adverse effects . In SH-SY5Y cells , exposure to PS-NPs resulted in reduced cell viability ( p < 01 ) , an effect that was mitigated by TTM . Furthermore , NAC and PD98059 were found to reverse elevated copper levels , cuproptosis markers , and mitochondrial anomalies ( p < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : This study presents preliminary evidence indicating that PS-NPs may induce neuronal cuproptosis , potentially through the oxidative stress-mediated activation of the ERK-MAPK pathway , which contributes to cognitive dysfunction in mice . These findings provide insights into the potential mechanisms underlying PS-NPs neurotoxicity and highlight possible therapeutic targets , such as copper chelation or MAPK inhibition , for mitigating the neurological risks associated with nanoplastic exposure , pending further validation in human-relevant models .
Hyperhomocysteinemia ( HHy ) can lead to vascular endothelial cell dysfunction , progressive inflammation and lipid metabolism disorder , which finally result in the onset and development of atherosclerosis , a major contributor to cardiovascular diseases . Given the complexity of pathological process , treatments based on a single target often showed limited therapeutic efficacy against AS . Thus , developing nanodrug for enhanced multi-targets therapy is promising . In this study , we constructed a dual-targeting nanodrug ( HA-ML@ES NPs ) co-loaded with Shikonin ( SKN ) and Evolocumab ( Evol ) . In vitro results showed that HA-ML@ES NPs could simultaneously target dysfunctional endothelial cell and inflammatory macrophage through the interaction between HA and CD In vivo assay indicated that HA-ML@ES NPs with long circulation and plaque accumulation efficiently attenuate endothelial cell dysfunction by inhibiting glycolysis and restore cholesterol flow homeostasis in macrophage by reprogramming macrophage phenotype , which finally attenuated the development of atherosclerosis . Collectively , these results present a highly promising dual-cell therapeutic approach based on HA-ML@ES NPs for the management of early atherosclerosis .
BACKGROUND : Histone lactylation is a novel epigenetic regulator that is reported to participate in gene expression . Ferroptosis is an oxidative form of cell death and chondrocyte ferroptosis crucially impacts the development of osteoarthritis ( OA ) . The study aimed at investigating the effect of lactate dehydrogenase B ( LDHB ) and its mediated histone lactylation on chondrocyte ferroptosis during OA . METHODS : Our study focused on the establishment of in vivo mouse model and in vitro interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) -induced chondrocytes model and administrated LDHB knockdown ( siLDHB ) . Histopathological assessment of cartilage was conducted via HE staining , while serum levels of cartilage oligomeric matrix protein ( COMP ) and crosslinked C-telopeptides of type II collagen ( CTX-II ) were quantified using ELISA to evaluate OA severity . The matrix degradation was further examined by expression of Collagen II and Aggrecan . Levels of total iron , ferrous iron ( Fe2+ ) , and lipid reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) were considered measurements of ferroptosis . Assessment of cell viability and proliferation relied on cell counting kit 8 ( CCK-8 ) together with colony formation assay . Western blotting assay served for detecting the relative expression of proteins and protein lactylation . The epigenetic regulation of ACSL4 by LDHB was determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) and luciferase reporter gene assay . RESULTS : OA mice presented remarkably elevated protein level of LDHB and H3K18 lactylation in the cartilage versus the sham group . Knockdown of LDHB downregulated the levels of COMP and CTX-II , as well as alleviated chondrocyte ferroptosis in vitro and in vivo . Results from ChIP and luciferase reporter gene assay demonstrated direct histone lactylation of ACSL promoter , and knockdown of LDHB and treatment with LDH inhibitor reduced histone lactylation and expression of ACSL ACSL4 overexpression could reverse the impact of LDHB depletion on chondrocyte proliferation and ferroptosis . CONCLUSION : LDHB promotes ACSL4 by histone lactylation to induce chondrocyte ferroptosis , which further contributes to OA development . The findings in the study assist in understanding the modulating mechanism of LDHB-mediated lactylation against chondrocyte ferroptosis in OA progression .
INTRODUCTION : Peripheral Artery Disease ( PAD ) is a common cardiovascular condition marked by peripheral artery stenosis or occlusion . Despite treatment advancements , patients will still face vascular complications , highlighting the need for innovative therapies . Human proteins play crucial roles in biology and drug research . Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis , a gene-based method , is increasingly used in drug target identification . This study aims to identify PAD-associated plasma proteins through MR analysis for potential therapies . METHODS : We first used GWAS data and seven pQTL datasets to identify plasma proteins causally linked to PAD through MR analysis . Then , we performed KEGG pathway enrichment analysis , Bayesian colocalization analysis , and MR-BMA analysis were carried out to investigate mechanisms and prioritize these proteins . Finally , we assessed the druggability of the target proteins using the DrugBank database . RESULTS : MR analysis found four plasma proteins causally linked to PAD : MMP3 positively correlated with PAD , while CASS4 , ISG15 , and MMP1 exhibited negative associations . Bayesian colocalization analysis confirmed these relationships , and the MR-BMA analysis prioritized MMP1 as the main target . KEGG pathway enrichment analysis highlighted lipid metabolism and atherosclerosis pathways as central to these drug targets . The druggability evaluation indicated that drugs targeting these proteins are either in development or already in clinical use . CONCLUSION : This study integrates genetic and proteomic data to identify therapeutic targets for PAD and evaluate their potential for drug development . The prioritization of MMP1 and ISG15 as key targets shows promise for PAD treatment , but further validation and clinical exploration of these findings are needed .
BACKGROUND : This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the effects of ketogenic diet ( KD ) and very-low-energy ketogenic therapy ( VLEKT ) protocols on various health outcomes in patients with polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) and increased body weight . METHODS : A systematic search was conducted across Scopus , PubMed , Cochrane , and Embase databases from their inception through January 2025 , using a predefined search strategy . Studies were selected based on the PICOS criteria . Data extraction focused on anthropometric measures , glycometabolic and lipid profiles , and hormone levels . Controlled studies were analyzed to evaluate the effects of high-fat KDs and VLEKT compared to low calorie diets ( LCDs ) . Additionally , uncontrolled studies were included , and the outcomes following high-fat KDs or VLEKT were compared to baseline values ( before-after study design ) . A sub-analysis was also performed to compare VLEKT with high-fat KDs . We assessed the quality of the evidence , as well as heterogenity , sensitivity , and publication bias . RESULTS : A total of 10 studies were included in the analyses , comprising three randomized controlle studies ( RCTs ) , one non-randomized intervention study , four cohort studies , and two case series . Two RCTs comparing VLEKT and high-fat KDs with LCDs found no significant effect on body weight . However , both high-fat KDs and VLEKT were associated with reductions in body mass index ( BMI ) and fat mass percentage in patients with PCOS . Significant improvements in weight , BMI , fat mass , and lean mass were observed following high-fat KDs or VLEKT interventions compared to baseline values , with no substantial differences between the two diet types . Regarding glycometabolic outcomes , both high-fat KDs and VLEKT reduced serum glucose levels and the homeostatic model assessment index compared to LCDs , with VLEKT showing slightly more favorable effects . In terms of the lipid profile , both high-fat KDs and VLEKT lowered total cholesterol and triglyceride levels , and VLEKT showing greater efficacy in triglyceride reduction . Hormonal analyses from two RCTs showed that both high-fat KDs and VLEKT were associated with lower serum luteinizig hormone ( LH ) levels compared to LCDs . Additionally , both high-fat KDs and VLEKT led to reductions in LH and total testosterone levels relative to baseline , with VLEKT showing a slight advantage in lowering LH and follicle-stimulating hormone levels . CONCLUSIONS : High-fat KDs and VLEKT show beneficial effects on weight , body composition , glycometabolic parameters , and hormone profile in women with PCOS . VLEKT may provide additional advantages , particularly in reducing fat mass and lowering triglyceride levels . Further studies with larger sample sizes and more robust study designs are needed to confirm these findings .
BACKGROUND : While electronic cigarettes ( ECIG ) may have lower toxicant delivery than cigarettes , ECIG-liquids and aerosols still contain toxicants that can potentially disrupt lung lipid homeostasis . METHODS : Participants from two studies underwent bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage ( BAL ) . Ninety-eight participants ( 21-44 years old ) were included in a cross-sectional study , with 17 ECIG users , 52 non-smokers , and 29 smokers . In the four-week clinical trial , 30 non-smokers were randomly assigned to use nicotine-free , flavorless ECIG or no use . A panel of 75 quantifiable lipid species and 7 lipid classes were assessed in the BAL using two tandem mass spectrometry ( MS/MS ) platforms . Ten cytokines and lipid-laden macrophages ( LLM ) were analyzed using the V-PLEX Plus Proinflam Combo 10 panel and Oil Red O staining , respectively . RESULTS : In the cross-sectional study , 43 lipids were associated with smoking status at FDR<1 , including two between ECIG and non-smokers ( PC ( 14 : 0/18 : 1 ) and PC ( 18 : 0/14 : 0 ) ) in pairwise follow-up analyses ( Bonferroni-adjusted p<017 ) . Associations between lipid species and cotinine , inflammatory markers , including IL-1beta and IL-8 , and LLM were also identified , as well as differences in lipid classes between smokers and the other groups . Smokers had higher saturated lipids , including ceramide ( CER ) , sphingomyelin ( SM ) , and diacylglycerol ( DAG ) than that of non-smokers and ECIG users . No significant associations were identified in the 4-week clinical trial . CONCLUSIONS : Smoking was associated with altered lipid levels , as compared to both non-smokers and ECIG users ; the majority were downregulated and ECIG effects tend to be smaller in magnitude than smoking effects , although some were different than those in the smokers group . This is a novel study of healthy individuals examining lipidomic differences between smokers , ECIG users , and non-smokers , indicating potential roles of smoking and ECIG-related lipid alterations in pulmonary disease . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The study was approved by The OSU Institutional Review Board ( OSU-2015C0088 ) in accordance with its ethical standards , the Helsinki declaration , and the Belmont Report , and is registered on Clinicaltrials . gov ( NCT02596685 ; 2015-11-04 ) .
Hemolytic uremic syndrome associated to Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli infection ( STEC-HUS ) is a life-threatening condition characterized by microangiopathic hemolytic anemia , thrombocytopenia , and acute kidney failure . Among STEC , E . coli O157 : H7 is the dominant serotype related with human disease worldwide ; however , a subset of STEC non-O157 serotypes -named the " Big-Six " - that include the E . coli serogroups O145 , O121 , O26 , O111 , O103 and O45 became of a great concern for their potential to cause HUS . Previously , we have demonstrated that serological tests based on bacterial engineered glycoconjugates developed by exploiting the Campylobacter jejuni N-glycosylation machinery , notably increases the association rate of HUS to O157 , O145 and O121 STEC infections . In this work , we developed the recombinant glycoproteins O26-AcrA , O111-AcrA , O103-AcrA and O45-AcrA by co-expressing in E . coli the gene cluster required for the synthesis of the O polysaccharide corresponding to each serogroup , the C . jejuni oligosaccharyltransferase ( OTase ) PglB , and the carrier protein AcrA . The glycans attached to AcrA in the produced and purified glycoconjugates were characterized by mass spectrometry . The glycoconjugates were evaluated as antigens for detection of IgM antibodies against the O polysaccharide of the lipopolysaccharide of O26 , O111 and O103 STEC strains in human serum samples . Our results demonstrate that O26-AcrA , O111-AcrA and O103-AcrA allow a clear discrimination between negative and positive samples obtained from patients with HUS associated to O26 , O111 and O103 STEC infections . Additionally , these novel antigens are serospecific allowing E . coli serogroup identification which may contribute to the epidemiological surveillance of STEC-HUS patients and their contacts .
BACKGROUND : The Portfolio Diet , a dietary pattern of cholesterol-lowering foods , has been shown to reduce cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk factors in clinical trials and lower CVD risk in observational cohorts of mainly white men and women . However , evidence on mortality outcomes in diverse populations is limited . OBJECTIVE : To examine the association of the Portfolio dietary pattern with CVD mortality in a racially diverse cohort . METHODS : A total of 14 , 835 US adults from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey , NHANES ( 1988-1994 ) , were included . Diet was assessed by a 24-h dietary recall which was supplemented with a food frequency questionnaire at baseline using the Portfolio Diet Score ( PDS ) , with positive points for nuts , plant protein , viscous fiber , phytosterols , and plant monounsaturated fatty acid sources , and negative points for foods high in saturated fat and cholesterol ( range , 6-30 points ) . The primary outcome was CVD mortality . Other mortality outcomes included coronary heart disease ( CHD ) , stroke , and all-cause mortality . RESULTS : During 22 years of follow-up , 2300 CVD deaths , including 1887 CHD deaths , 413 stroke deaths , and 6238 all-cause deaths were documented . Greater adherence was inversely associated with risk factors including blood lipids , glycemia , and inflammation . Treated as a continuous variable , an increase in PDS by 8 points was associated with a 12% ( hazard ratio 88 [95% confidence intervals : 78 , 99] ) , 14% ( 86 [78 , 96] ) , and 12% ( 88 [82 , 95] ) lower risk of CVD , CHD , and all-cause mortality after adjustments for known CVD risk factors . Comparing the highest to lowest tertiles of the PDS , higher PDS was associated with 16% ( 84 [73 , 98] ) , 18% ( 82 [72 , 95] ) and 14% ( 86 [78 , 96] ) lower risk of CVD , CHD , and all-cause mortality , respectively . As part of exploratory analyses , an interaction between PDS and race/ethnicity was observed , emphasizing the necessity of future research involving underserved groups . CONCLUSIONS : Among a national cohort of racially diverse adults in the US , greater adherence to the Portfolio dietary pattern was inversely and prospectively associated with CVD , CHD , and all-cause mortality .
BACKGROUND : Lipomyces starkeyi is an oleaginous yeast with a native metabolism well-suited for production of lipids and biofuels from complex lignocellulosic and waste feedstocks . Recent advances in genetic engineering tools have facilitated the development of L . starkeyi into a microbial chassis for biofuel and chemical production . However , the feasibility of redirecting L . starkeyi lipid flux away from lipids and towards other products remains relatively unexplored . Here , we engineer the native metabolism to produce malic acid by introducing the reductive TCA pathway and a C4-dicarboxylic acid transporter to the yeast . RESULTS : Heterogeneous expression of two genes , the Aspergillus oryzae malate transporter and malate dehydrogenase , enabled L . starkeyi malic acid production . Overexpression of a third gene , the native pyruvate carboxylase , allowed titers to reach approximately 10 g/L during shaking flasks cultivations , with production of malic acid inhibited at pH values less than Corn-stover hydrolysates were found to be well-tolerated , and controlled bioreactor fermentations on the real hydrolysate produced 5 g/L of malic acid . Proteomic , transcriptomic and metabolomic data from real and mock hydrolysate fermentations indicated increased levels of a S . cerevisiae hsp9/hsp12 homolog ( proteinID : 101453 ) , glutathione dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenases ( proteinIDs : 2047 , 278215 ) , oxidoreductases , and expression of efflux pumps and permeases during growth on the real hydrolysate . Simultaneously , machine learning based medium optimization improved production dynamics by 18% on mock hydrolysate and revealed lower tolerance to boron ( a trace element included in the standard cultivation medium ) than other yeasts . CONCLUSIONS : Together , this work demonstrated the ability to produce organic acids in L . starkeyi with minimal byproducts . The fermentation characterization and omic analyses provide a rich dataset for understanding L . starkeyi physiology and metabolic response to growth in hydrolysates . Identified upregulated genes and proteins provide potential targets for overexpression for improving growth and tolerance to concentrated hydrolysates , as well as valuable information for future L . starkeyi engineering work .
Gene therapy holds immense potential due to its ability to precisely target oncogenes , making it a promising strategy for cancer treatment . Advances in genetic science and bioinformatics have expanded the applications of gene delivery technologies beyond detection and diagnosis to potential therapeutic interventions . However , traditional gene therapy faces significant challenges , including limited therapeutic efficacy and the rapid degradation of genetic materials in vivo . To address these limitations , multifunctional nanoparticles have been engineered to encapsulate and protect genetic materials , enhancing their stability and therapeutic effectiveness . Nanoparticles are being extensively explored for their ability to deliver various genetic payloads-including plasmid DNA , messenger RNA , and small interfering RNA-directly to cancer cells . This review highlights key gene modulation strategies such as RNA interference , gene editing systems , and chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) technologies , alongside a diverse array of nanoscale delivery systems composed of polymers , lipids , and inorganic materials . These nanoparticle-based delivery platforms aim to improve targeted transport of genetic material into cancer cells , ultimately enhancing the efficacy of cancer therapies .
Metal drugs , such as platinum drugs , are widely used in tumor treatment . However , most traditional tumor treatments face the risk of failure due to the ineffective control over drug resistance and tumor metastasis . Targeting the cell membrane and disrupting its function to combat drug resistance and metastasis is a promising strategy . Nevertheless , membranolytic drugs always cause significant cytotoxicity . In this study , we developed a zinc-containing molecule to selectively kill tumor cells by targeting phosphatidylserine in the tumor cell membrane , which is commonly distributed in the outer cell membrane of tumor cells . Herein , a structurally optimized amphiphilic zinc-containing molecule , 2aZn , was developed by screening the appropriate hydrophobic tail and linker . This functional molecule can disrupt the tumor cell membrane to kill various types of tumor cells with minimal damage to normal tissue . After repeated stimulation , no obvious drug resistance was observed . Importantly , 2aZn could successfully combat tumor metastasis by destroying the cell membrane and reducing the capacity of cells to invade . As a result , zinc-containing molecules have the potential to overcome drug resistance and tumor metastasis in the treatment of tumors , providing a new perspective for the design of effective antitumour medications .
BACKGROUND : The present study aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of spring coils or gelatin sponges for the embolization of giant hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) with a hepatic arterioportal shunt ( APS ) in targeted therapy . METHODS : A total of 81 patients with a large HCC complicated with APS were divided into two groups on the basis of the use of block-APS embolic agents : the coil group and the gelatin sponge group . Both groups received lipiodol transarterial chemoembolization ( TACE ) after APS was correspondingly blocked with a coil or gelatin sponge . Sorafenib or lenvatinib was administered 3-5 days before TACE . RESULTS : Both groups showed improvement in the incidence of fistula one month after the first TACE session and the last TACE session compared with before treatment . In addition , the improvement in the incidence of fistulas in the coil group was greater than that in the gelatin sponge group [p = 003] , whereas the compensation of extrahepatic blood vessels was more severe in the coil group . There was no significant difference in median overall survival ( OS ) ( 13 months , 95% CI 67-59 months vs . 13 months , 95% CI 18-09 months , p = 303 ) or progression-free survival ( PFS ) ( 37 months , 95% CI 04-70 months vs . 7 months , 95% CI 66-74 months , p = 376 ) between the two groups . However , both groups showed early progression of intrahepatic lesions . CONCLUSIONS : Spring coil or gelatin sponge embolization combined with APS was used for giant HCC patients , which significantly improved the incidence of fistulas .
MYB transcription factors play an important role in the biosynthesis of fatty acids in plants . Olive ( Olea europaea L . ) is one of the woody plants that has been used the longest for the production of oil . However , their functions in fatty acid metabolism of Olive fruit is not well defined . This study identified 212 OLR2R3 MYB genes from the olive genome , which were unevenly distributed across 23 chromosomes . A phylogenetic analysis revealed that they are clustered into six subgroups , and the OLR2R3 MYB gene members in different subgroups have similar gene structures and conserved motifs . A collinearity analysis revealed 17 pairs of segmentally duplicated OLR2R3 MYB genes . The levels of expression of each OLR2R3 MYB gene in the fruit , flower , and bud tissues from various varieties of olive were analyzed . This revealed that 50 genes may be involved in the development of olive fruit . A co-expression network analysis showed that OLMYB185 is co-expressed with the genes for the biosynthesis of fatty acids . The overexpression of OLMYB185 in Arabidopsis seeds significantly increased the seed size compared to the wild type . These results further elucidate the role of OLR2R3 MYB in the biosynthesis of fatty acids in olive fruit and provide new insights into the function of these genes in olive plants .
Poly ( L-lactic acid ) ( PLLA ) is a promising material for bone substitutes due to its biodegradability and biocompatibility . However , its limited osteogenic activity and antibacterial properties restrict its applications . To address these challenges , this study develops PLLA/SiO@ZnO/PDA/PLL composite fibrous materials using an approach that integrates electrospinning with ultrasonic techniques . The composite exhibits photothermal antibacterial functionality and osteoinductive properties . The material demonstrates excellent hydrophilicity , sustained-release capability , and antibacterial activity . Upon near-infrared light exposure , Zn ( 2+ ) ions are released , disrupting bacterial membranes via electrostatic interactions and lipid peroxidation induced by reactive oxygen species . This dual mechanism leads to bacterial membrane rupture and biofilm degradation . Zn ( 2+ ) ions also interfere with bacterial respiratory enzymes , disrupting the electron transfer process and achieving efficient antibacterial effects . The composite further shows outstanding biocompatibility and osteoinductivity , promoting vascular endothelial cell and osteoblast adhesion and enhancing calcium-phosphate salt deposition . In vivo studies confirm its safety with no significant toxicity or adverse effects on tissues and organs . This PLLA/SiO@ZnO/PDA/PLL composite offers significant potential for repairing infected bone tissue and provides a strong foundation for future applications in bone tissue engineering . FAU - Zhang , Yanxia
BACKGROUND : Soil cadmium ( Cd ) contamination poses significant environmental challenges globally . Kentucky bluegrass is considered a viable plant for remediating Cd-contaminated soils due to its high tolerance to Cd and accumulation capacity . Yet , the complete metabolic landscape underlying Cd detoxification mechanisms of Kentucky bluegrass remains incompletely understood . RESULTS : Here , widely targeted metabolomics was used to identify key metabolites of Kentucky bluegrass that were responsive to Cd stress in comparisons between Cd-resistant ( M ) and sensitive ( R ) varieties . Moreover , lipidomics analyses were used to assess the content , composition , and saturation levels of lipid molecular species . The M variety exhibited higher levels of free amino acids , saccharides , and flavonoids ( flavones , flavonols , isoflavones , and flavanones ) after Cd stress that likely enhance its tolerance to Cd stress . Within the M variety , 183 lipid species ( 81% ) were less abundant after Cd stress , representing a much larger number than the 81 lipid species ( 54% ) similarly less abundant in the R variety . The lipid species with increased abundances primarily comprised diacylglycerols , monogalactosyldiacylglycerol , phosphatidylcholine , triacylglycerol , and lysophosphatidylcholine that exhibited higher saturation levels . Conversely , the lipid species with decreased abundances largely comprised those with shorter acyl chains including free fatty acids , phosphatidic acid , and lysophosphatidic acid , as well as those with higher unsaturation levels , including phosphatidylglycerol , diacylglycerol , triacylglycerol , phosphatidylcholine , and lysophosphatidylcholine . The elongation of these lipid acyl chains under Cd stress contributes to the increased membrane thickness and rigidity in Kentucky bluegrass , resulting from the dense packing of hydrophobic tails and enhanced lipid-lipid interactions . The changes in these metabolites and lipids may play a significant role in enhancing Cd tolerance , distribution , and accumulation in Kentucky bluegrass . CONCLUSION : The results of this study provide a comprehensive metabolite profile for Kentucky bluegrass in response to Cd stress , elucidating the key metabolite characteristics essential for Cd detoxification under Cd-induced stress . Furthermore , the results provide insights into the metabolic regulation of metabolites and lipid homeostasis that contribute to enhanced Cd tolerance in Kentucky bluegrass .
BACKGROUND : Mechanisms causing non-response to biological agents in IBD remain to be fully understood . Thus , we aimed to characterize the lipid profile in treatment refractory non-immunogenic patients with adequate trough-levels . METHODS : Patients with IBD refractory to treatment with anti-tumour necrosis factor or vedolizumab were included from a Norwegian translation study . Mucosal lipid profiles were compared to reference groups . The reference groups included treatment naive IBD patients with moderate to severe disease at debut who later achieved remission or response on antiTNFs , IBD patients treated to remission with biological agents , and healthy normal controls . Lipidomics analyses were performed on mucosal biopsies . Statistical analyses of lipid levels were carried out using generalized least squares . Lipidomics data were log2-transformed and auto-scaled before analysis . P-values were adjusted using Benjamini- Hochberg procedure to control the false discovery rate ( FDR ) . RESULTS : Proinflammatory lipids including ceramides and sphingomyelins and protective lipids like glycerophosphocholines and glycerophosphoethanolamines were significantly decreased in treatment refractory UC patients compared to treatment naive UC patients with moderate to severe disease . Compared to controls , major changes in ceramides ( Cer ) , hexosyl ceramides ( HexCer ) , sphingomyelins ( SM ) , glycerophosphocholines ( PC ) , glycerophosphoethanolamines ( PE ) and glycerophosphoserines ( PS ) were observed in treatment refractory UC patients . Refractory CD patients showed minor changes compared to the other CD-groups . There were no significant differences in the mucosal lipid levels of IBD patients in remission compared to normal controls . CONCLUSIONS : The mucosal lipid profile of treatment refractory UC shows marked shifts compared to treatment naive UC at debut with moderate to severe inflammation . These are novel findings which possibly indicate dynamic processes of long-standing mucosal inflammation . The mucosal lipid profile of IBD patients in remission seems to be similar to the normal state .
There are few effective pharmacological interventions for intracerebral hemorrhage ( ICH ) . Atorvastatin ( Ato ) has been shown to exert a substantial protective effect on ischemic stroke and is effective in alleviating neuroinflammation . Lipocalin-2 ( LCN2 ) , an important inflammation-regulating protein , has been demonstrated to play pivotal roles in post-ICH neuroinflammation . However , the exact role of Ato and whether LCN2 is involved after ICH remain largely unknown . In the current study , the BV2 ( microglia ) cell line , which was transfected with or without LCN2 for overexpression/interference , was co-cultured with primary cultured neurons and received blood infusion from C57BL/6 mice in vitro . For the in vivo study , atorvastatin was injected peritoneally into an ICH mouse model , and LCN2 specific knockout using the flox/cre system was performed in mice for mechanism study . Behavioral tests were conducted before ICH and on days 1 , 3 , and 7 post-ICH , and the brains and cultured cells were collected for protein , histological , and morphological studies . Our results showed that atorvastatin treatment alleviates neural damage and promotes neurological outcomes after ICH . Moreover , M1 activation and pro-inflammatory polarization are inhibited by atorvastatin . In both in vivo and in vitro models , the upregulation of LCN2 after ICH is substantially inhibited by atorvastatin . Studies on LCN2 transgenic mice and LCN2 overexpression/interference cells demonstrated that the suppression of macrophage/microglia ( M/M ) LCN2 participates in atorvastatin-mediated anti-neuroinflammation and neural protection effects . Therefore , our study suggests that atorvastatin treatment attenuates M/M-related neuroinflammation and protects neural recovery by down-regulating LCN2 after ICH . This study identified a potential novel therapeutic target for ICH treatment .
Insects , due to their unrestricted reproduction , have been a long-known nuisance causing significant damage to various crops . Besides the synthetic chemical pesticides , the bioactive compounds derived from medicinal plants also make a positive contribution against the control of pests . In this concern , the present study investigated the biological activity of essential oil and isolated sesquiterpene alcohols , tau-cadinol and beta-bisabolol , from Clausena indica leaves against three insect pests , Spodoptera litura , Helicoverpa armigera , and Tribolium castaneum . Four different concentrations ( 25 , 50 , 75 , and 100 g L ( -1 ) ) of oil , tau-cadinol , and beta-bisabolol in both normal and microencapsulated forms were tested for their efficacy in the field trial . Among all the compounds , tau-cadinol exhibited strong toxicity ( LD = 93-94 microg larva ( -1 ) ) , antifeedant activity ( DC = 51-93 microg cm ( -2 ) ) , and oviposition deterrent activity ( OD = 73-18 microg cm ( -2 ) ) against all the tested pests followed by beta-bisabolol and leaf essential oil . Additionally , both the compounds demonstrated noteworthy acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity with IC values of 53-98 mug mL ( -1 ) and 15-41 mug mL ( -1 ) respectively comparable to the positive control , galantamine . Moreover , both tau-cadinol and beta-bisabolol exhibited the strongest cytotoxicity against Sf9 cells lines with IC of 27 and 82 microg mL ( -1 ) respectively while IC of 02 microg mL ( -1 ) was shown by azadirachtin on the same cell line . Results of the field trial reveal that all tested compounds showed considerable mortality of S . litura and H . armigera . Although the treatments showed good insecticidal activity in the field trial , but modifications are required for the concentration of active ingredients in the formulation or even in the formulation to enhance the effect . The results obtained lay a foundation for future field applications of oil and isolated compounds as crop protectants .
Organophosphate insecticides like malathion , though less toxic than other compounds in the same class , remain a significant public health concern due to their widespread use and potential neurotoxic effects . Prolonged exposure to malathion can lead to environmental contamination and neurobehavioral issues such as anxiety , depression , and cognitive impairment , mediated through cholinergic and non-cholinergic pathways . Cynodon dactylon ( L . ) , a medicinal herb renowned in traditional and Ayurvedic medicine , exhibits anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , anti-diabetic , and neuroprotective properties . Evidence suggests that it can mitigate neurotoxicity and improve brain antioxidant status in rodent models . Therefore , this study explored the protective effects of the hydro-alcoholic extract of Cynodon dactylon ( HAECD ) on malathion-induced neurotoxicity , emphasizing its impact on behavior , biochemistry , and brain structure . Forty-two Swiss mice were randomly assigned to six groups , each containing seven mice . One group received normal saline ( control ) , while another was given malathion ( 100 mg/kg , orally ) . Three groups received HAECD ( 250 , 500 , or 1000 mg/kg daily ) alongside malathion , and the final group received only HAECD ( 1000 mg/kg , orally ) . Behavioral tests , including the elevated plus maze , light-dark test , and Morris water maze to assess the anxiety-depression-like behaviors , and cognitive function . Biochemical analyses measured acetylcholinesterase activity , lipid peroxidation , antioxidant enzymes ( superoxide dismutase and catalase ) , and brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) . Inflammatory markers and hippocampal histopathology were also examined . Results indicated that HAECD significantly alleviated anxiety and cognitive dysfunction while reducing oxidative stress markers , restoring antioxidant enzyme levels , and modulating brain-derived neurotrophic factor and inflammatory responses . These findings highlight the potential of HAECD in protecting the brain from malathion-induced neurotoxicity .
PURPOSE : To evaluate meibomian gland ( MG ) and tear film alterations in treated primary congenital glaucoma ( PCG ) patients through a comparative study . METHODS : We conducted a comparative , cross-sectional study analysing eyes with treated PCG vs healthy eyes of age-matched children using the MediWorks Dry Eye Diagnostic System to perform a non-contact quantitative analysis . Seven ocular parameters were measured : non-invasive break-up time ( NIBUT ) , tear meniscus height , lipid layer thickness , eyelid edge morphology , MG morphology , ocular surface staining , and conjunctival hyperaemia . RESULTS : Our study included 71 treated PCG eyes ( 42 patients ) and 30 non-glaucomatous healthy eyes ( 30 patients ) . Thirty ( 21 patients ) of the 71 treated PCG eyes ( 3% ) were on topical glaucoma medications at the time of study enrolment . MG loss grade ( 3 +/- 5 vs 1 +/- 3 , P < 001 ) , mean first rupture NIBUT ( 2 +/- 6 s vs 9 +/- 4 s , P < 001 ) , lipid layer grade ( 2 +/- 6 vs 6 +/- 5 , P = 03 ) , and prevalence of low tear meniscus height ( 5% vs 3% , P < 001 ) were all significantly altered in the treated PCG group as compared to healthy controls . Sub-group analyses revealed significantly worse MG and tear film parameters in treated PCG eyes on glaucoma medications vs treated PCG eyes not on glaucoma medications and treated PCG eyes not on glaucoma medications vs healthy controls . Glaucoma surgery was also associated with worse parameters . CONCLUSION : In this first study to evaluate MG and tear film parameters in treated PCG , significant differences were observed in the MG morphology and tear film parameters of eyes with treated PCG compared to the eyes of healthy children . Glaucoma medication use and glaucoma surgery were individually correlated with ocular surface disease in treated PCG .
COVID-19 is caused by SARS-CoV-2 and has a diverse spectrum of clinical presentations ranging from asymptomatic cases to severe and critical cases that result in the death of the patient . Alongside the viral factors host factors like Age , deregulation of the immune response and presence of comorbidity determine the patient ' s outcome . Here we sought to assess the impact of age on natural antibody response , CBC-based inflammatory markers , and outcome of COVID-19 patients . We divided the participants into three groups , young ( </= 35 years ) , middle-aged ( 40-60 years ) , and old ( >/= 65 years ) patients and collected and analyzed sociodemographic , clinical , and laboratory parameters . We found that elderly patients showed higher ( P < 05 ) levels of inflammation like increased neutrophil percentages , NLR , lymphopenia , and low Hgb levels , compared to middle-aged and young patients . Interestingly these markers were also associated with mortality of COVID-19 patients . On the other hand , no significant difference was observed in ion concentration , lipid profile , and coagulation test between the three age groups . We also found that elderly patients showed significantly ( P < 05 ) decreased levels of natural antibody response to SARS-CoV-2 infection compared with the two groups . Lastly , we assessed the effect of dexamethasone treatment , even if statistically not significant ( P > 05 ) we observed a positive trend among patients under dexamethasone in the aspect of decreasing inflammatory markers . To conclude we showed that SARS-CoV-2 is characterized by an age-dependent deregulation of inflammatory markers that are associated with mortality among COVID-19 patients .
Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma ( ESCC ) is characterized by high aggressiveness and poor prognosis . Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of ESCC , with lipid metabolism frequently upregulated . It has been shown that lipid metabolism , particularly fatty acid beta-oxidation ( FAO ) , plays an essential role in energy homeostasis , membrane biosynthesis , and tumor progression . Stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) , a key innate immune signaling molecule , also acts as a metabolic checkpoint by inhibiting hexokinase 2 , thereby limiting aerobic glycolysis and enhancing anti-tumor immune responses . In this study , we investigated the impact of STING on FAO and tumorigenesis in ESCC . We showed that the expression levels of STING were significantly reduced in ESCC compared to adjacent normal tissue . In the ESCC cell line KYSE-510 , knockdown of STING significantly elevated lipid metabolites , decreased intracellular lipid droplets , and increased FAO products , whereas overexpression of STING inhibited ESCC cell proliferation and tumor progression by suppressing FAO . Targeted lipid metabolomic analyses revealed that STING interacted with carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A ( CPT1A ) , a key enzyme in FAO . STING promoted the ubiquitination and degradation of CPT1A by disrupting its interaction with USP15 , a deubiquitinating enzyme . Treatment with the CPT1A inhibitor etomoxir ( 50 muM ) reversed the increased FAO induced by STING depletion in KYSE-30 cells . In both in vitro and in vivo models , supplementation with palmitic acid rescued STING-induced growth inhibition , restoring tumor cell growth . In addition , STING knockout in 4-NQO-induced ESCC mice led to accelerated tumor progression , which could be mitigated by CPT1A inhibition . Our results suggest that reduced STING expression enhances FAO and promotes ESCC cell proliferation , implicating FAO suppression as a potential therapeutic strategy for ESCC .
Proteomic studies have been instrumental in identifying brain , cerebrospinal fluid and plasma proteins associated with Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . Here , we comprehensively examined 6 , 905 aptamers corresponding to 6 , 106 unique proteins in plasma in more than 3 , 300 well-characterized individuals to identify new proteins , pathways and predictive models for AD . We identified 416 proteins ( 294 new ) associated with clinical AD status and validated the findings in two external datasets representing more than 7 , 000 samples . AD-related proteins reflected blood-brain barrier disruption and other processes implicated in AD , such as lipid dysregulation or immune responses . A machine learning model was used to identify a set of seven proteins that were highly predictive of both clinical AD ( area under the curve ( AUC ) of >72 ) and biomarker-defined AD status ( AUC of >88 ) , which were replicated in multiple external cohorts and orthogonal platforms . These findings underscore the potential of using plasma proteins as biomarkers for the early detection and monitoring of AD and for guiding treatment decisions .
Prime editing is a versatile genome editing technology that circumvents the need for DNA double-strand break formation and homology-directed repair , making it particularly suitable for in vivo correction of pathogenic mutations . Here we developed liver-specific prime editing approaches with temporally restricted prime editor ( PE ) expression . We first established a dual-delivery approach where the prime editor guide RNA is continuously expressed from adeno-associated viral vectors and only the PE is transiently delivered as nucleoside-modified mRNA encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles ( LNP ) . This strategy achieved 2% editing with PEmax and 4% editing with PE7 at the Dnmt1 locus using a single 2 mg kg ( -1 ) dose of mRNA-LNP . When targeting the pathogenic Pah ( enu2 ) mutation in a phenylketonuria mouse model , gene correction rates reached 3% with PEmax and 7% with PE7 after three doses of 2 mg kg ( -1 ) mRNA-LNP , effectively reducing blood L-phenylalanine levels from over 1 , 500 micromol l ( -1 ) to below the therapeutic threshold of 360 micromol l ( -1 ) . Encouraged by the high efficiency of PE7 , we next explored a simplified approach where PE7 mRNA was co-delivered with synthetic prime editor guide RNAs encapsulated in LNP . This strategy yielded 9% editing after two doses of RNA-LNP at the Dnmt1 locus and 0% editing after three doses of RNA-LNP at the Pah ( enu2 ) locus , again reducing L-phenylalanine levels below 360 micromol l ( -1 ) . These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of mRNA-LNP-based prime editing for treating phenylketonuria and other genetic liver diseases , offering a scalable and efficient platform for future clinical translation .
Multidrug resistant Acinetobacter baumannii is declared as crucial level precedence pathogen by World Health Organization that needs new and upgraded antibiotics for better treatment . Against a vast extent of microbes , many silver nanoparticles have displayed anti-microbial activity because of their numerous methods of antimicrobial actions . This study was aimed to isolate and characterize the Acinetobacter baumannii by using standard microbiological technique and to analyze the anti-inflammatory and antagonistic effect of PB capped AgNPs in isolated A . baumannii . In antagonistic activity , PB capped AgNPs showed antagonistic effect in 8 out of 20 isolates tested and PB when combined with AgNPs showed antagonistic effect in all isolates tested . In in-vitro anti-inflammatory egg albumin assay , PB capped AgNPs gave inhibition rate of 96% at 5 microg , 93% at 25 microg , 82% at 50 microg and 62% at 100 microg whereas in Polymyxin B combined AgNPs it gave inhibition rate of 97% at the dose of 50 microg . In-silico analysis also showed that PB in combination with tri-sodium citrate gave good binding energy than tri-sodium citrate and Polymyxin used alone . Hence , this study represented that silver nanoparticles when used in combination proved to be a good alternative in the treatment of MDR Acinetobacter baumannii .
Diphenyl diselenide ( DPDS ) is an organoselenium which has garnered profound interest due to its reported antioxidant viz-a-viz glutathione peroxidase ( GPx ) mimetic activity which is ultimately speculated to rely on oxidation of free thiols or protein thiols critical to the activities of some sulfhydryl proteins or enzymes . However , this hypothesis has not been fully established . This study was therefore carried out to investigate the antioxidant effect as well the possible involvement of proteins thiols in the in vitro GPx mimicry of DPDS . The effect of DPDS on Fe ( 2+ ) ( 10 microM ) and HO ( 1mM ) -induced lipid peroxidation and the possible involvement of thiols of cerebral sodium pump ( Na ( + ) /K ( + ) -ATPase ) and hepatic delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase ( delta-ALAD ) in the GPx mimicry of DPDS were evaluated in the cerebral and hepatic tissue homogenates of rat in the presence of thiol alkylating agent , iodoacetamide ( IA , 2 mM ) . The results revealed that DPDS exerted marked ( p < 05 ) inhibitory effect on Thiobarbituric acid reactive species ( TBARS ) production induced by Fe ( 2+ ) and HO in the rats hepatic and cerebral tissues and this effect was significant ( p < 05 ) when compared with the control . However , IA profoundly ( p < 05 ) counteracted the inhibitory action of DPDS on the TBARS production process . Furthermore , results also showed that DPDS inhibited the sulfhydryl enzymes , cerebral Na ( + ) /K ( + ) -ATPase and hepatic delta-ALAD as well as TBARS production in the same reaction system . Finally , we further established the involvement of thiols in the DPDS inhibition of sulfhydryl enzymes by assaying for pump and delta-ALAD activities in the presence of exogenous thiols [dithiothreitol ( DTT ) and glutathione ( GSH ) ] . Interestingly DPDS did not inhibit the activity of these enzymes when pre-incubated or post-incubated with DTT or GSH indicating that DPDS switched from proteins/enzymes thiols to the oxidation of exogenous thiols . It is therefore apparent that the GPx mimicry/antioxidant action of DPDS is related to the loss of enzymes ' activities . Consequently , we conclude that the in vitro GPx mimicry/ antioxidant mechanism of DPDS is largely dependent on the oxidation of essential thiols of sulfydryl proteins and that DPDS could be an effective therapeutic candidate for oxidative stress-mediated conditions in which endogenous GSH level is depleted .
Elsholtzia splendens , a perennial herb native to East Asia , is valued for its ornamental and medicinal uses , particularly in treating inflammatory and febrile conditions . Recent studies have highlighted its antibacterial , anti-inflammatory , antidepressant , antithrombotic , and lipid-lowering properties of its compounds . Additionally , E . splendens shows potential for phytoremediation owing to its ability to hyperaccumulate copper ( Cu ) , lead ( Pb ) , zinc ( Zn ) , and cadmium ( Cd ) . However , its role in remediation conflicts with its medicinal use because of the risk of heavy metal accumulation . Genome sequencing will be key to boosting beneficial compound production and reducing heavy metal risks . In this study , we generated a high-resolution , haplotype-resolved , chromosome-scale genome sequence of E . splendens using PacBio Revio long-read , Illumina short-read , and Hi-C sequencing technologies . The haplotype genome assemblies , spanned 4 and 0 Mbp with a scaffold N50 of 9 and 8 Mbp for haplotype 1 and 2 , respectively . This assembly provides valuable insights into medicinal compound biosynthesis and supports genetic conservation efforts , facilitating future genetic and biotechnological applications of E . splendens for medicinal and ecological uses .
The rise of drug-resistant fungal species , such as Candida auris , poses a serious threat to global health , with mortality rates exceeding 40% and resistance rates surpassing 90% . The limited arsenal of effective antifungal agents underscores the urgent need for novel strategies . Here , we systematically evaluate the role of histone H3 post-translational modifications in C . auris drug resistance , focusing on acetylation mediated by Gcn5 and Rtt109 , and methylation mediated by Set1 , Set2 , and Dot Mutants deficient in these enzymes exhibit varying degrees of antifungal drug sensitivity . Notably , we discover that GCN5 depletion and the subsequent loss of histone H3 acetylation downregulates key genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis and drug efflux , resulting in increased susceptibility to azoles and polyenes . Additionally , Gcn5 regulates cell wall integrity and echinocandin resistance through the calcineurin signaling pathway and transcription factor Cas In infection models using Galleria mellonella and immunocompromised mice , GCN5 deletion significantly reduces the virulence of C . auris . Furthermore , the Gcn5 inhibitor CPTH synergizes with caspofungin in vitro and in vivo without notable toxicity . These findings highlight the critical role of Gcn5 in the resistance and pathogenicity of C . auris , positioning it as a promising therapeutic target for combating invasive fungal infections .
Pneumonia-induced sepsis ( PIS ) is a life-threatening condition with high mortality rates , necessitating the identification of biomarkers and therapeutic targets . Sphingolipid , particularly ceramides , are pivotal in modulating immune responses and determining cell fate . In this study , we identified a novel gene signature related to sphingolipid metabolism , comprising ACER3 , UGCG , and GBA , which are key enzymes involved in the synthesis and metabolism of ceramides . This signature , termed the " AUG model " , demonstrated strong diagnostic performance and modest prognostic efficacy across both training ( GSE65682 ) and validation ( E-MTAB-1548 and E-MTAB-5273 ) datasets . A clinical cohort comprising 20 PIS patients , 31 pneumonia cases , and 11 healthy controls further validated the increased expression of AUG genes at both mRNA and protein levels in peripheral blood samples upon admission . Our comprehensive analysis of bulk and single-cell transcriptome datasets revealed that these genes are implicated in immune cell death pathways , including autophagy and apoptosis . Additionally , cell-communication analysis indicated that enhanced macrophage migration inhibitory factor ( MIF ) signaling may be associated with dysregulated sphingolipid metabolism , potentially driving the inflammatory cascade . This study identifies a novel predictive model for PIS , highlighting the role of sphingolipid metabolism-related genes in disease progression and suggesting potential therapeutic targets for sepsis management .
Lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) are key non-viral carriers for mRNA vaccines and therapeutics , but the inherent instability of mRNA necessitates sub-zero storage with cryoprotectants ( CPAs ) to prevent freeze-induced LNP aggregation and compromised mRNA delivery . Here we show that ice formation during freezing concentrates CPAs with LNPs in the remaining liquid-a phenomenon known as freeze concentration . This creates a steep concentration gradient of CPAs across the lipid membrane that drives passive CPAs diffusion into LNPs . By leveraging this process , we developed betaine-based CPAs that both preserve the stability of LNP and enter LNP during freeze-thaw . The incorporated betaine enhances endosomal escape and boosts mRNA delivery of LNP . In female mice , betaine-loaded LNPs elicit stronger humoral and cellular immune responses , providing dose-sparing advantages . These findings highlight freeze concentration as a promising LNP formulation strategy and underscore the role of CPA as active modulators of LNP structure and function .
Bone metastasis is a major cause of cancer death ; however , the epigenetic determinants driving this process remain elusive . Here , we report that histone methyltransferase ASH1L is genetically amplified and is required for bone metastasis in men with prostate cancer . ASH1L rewires histone methylations and cooperates with HIF-1alpha to induce pro-metastatic transcriptome in invading cancer cells , resulting in monocyte differentiation into lipid-associated macrophage ( LA-TAM ) and enhancing their pro-tumoral phenotype in the metastatic bone niche . We identified IGF-2 as a direct target of ASH1L/HIF-1alpha and mediates LA-TAMs ' differentiation and phenotypic changes by reprogramming oxidative phosphorylation . Pharmacologic inhibition of the ASH1L-HIF-1alpha-macrophages axis elicits robust anti-metastasis responses in preclinical models . Our study demonstrates epigenetic alterations in cancer cells reprogram metabolism and features of myeloid components , facilitating metastatic outgrowth . It establishes ASH1L as an epigenetic driver priming metastasis and macrophage plasticity in the bone niche , providing a bona fide therapeutic target in metastatic malignancies .
B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( B-ALL ) is a leading cause of death in childhood and outcomes in adults remain dismal . There is therefore an urgent clinical need for therapies that target the highest risk cases . Mutations in the histone acetyltransferase CREBBP confer high-risk and increased chemoresistance in ALL . Performing a targeted drug-screen in isogenic human cell lines , we identify a number of small molecules that specifically target CREBBP-mutated B-ALL , the most potent being the BCL2-inhibitor Venetoclax . Of note , this acts through a non-canonical mechanism resulting in ferroptotic rather than apoptotic cell death . CREBBP-mutated cell lines show differences in cell-cycle , metabolism , lipid composition and response to oxidative stress , predisposing them to ferroptosis , which are further dysregulated upon acquisition of Venetoclax resistance . Lastly , small-molecule inhibition of CREBBP pharmacocopies CREBBP-mutation , sensitizing B-ALL cells , regardless of genotype , to Venetoclax-induced ferroptosis in-vitro and in-vivo , providing a promising drug combination for broader clinical translation in B-ALL .
The methoxylated modification of flavonoids has been reported to enhance stability and permeability ; however , its effect on the improvement of activity is not clear . In this study , Citrus depressa flavonoid O-methyltransferase 5 and Sorghum vulgare 7-O-methyltransferase were recombinantly expressed and successfully converted quercetin ( QUE ) into eight methoxylated products , which were isolated and identified with a purity exceeding 95% . All products except rhamnetin ( RHA ) showed improved stability , while only 5 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -EMQ , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -TMQ , and 3 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -EMQ had higher uptake ratios . Compared to QUE , 5 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -EMQ and RHA significantly reduced the intracellular triglyceride level , while 3 , 5 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -PMQ , 3 , 3 ' , 4 ' -TMQ and 3 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -EMQ increased it . 5 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -EMQ and RHA also significantly downregulated both the mRNA and protein levels of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma , while 3 , 5 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -PMQ and 3 , 7 , 3 ' , 4 ' -EMQ upregulated PPARgamma at the transcriptional level to about ten times higher than that of QUE . The structure-activity relationship analysis highlighted the importance of C3-OH retention and dual methoxylation of the A-ring . In summary , this study efficiently produced eight structurally well-defined QUE methoxylation products via biotransformation , established an in vitro initial structure-activity relationship for regulating adipogenesis , and provided a potential structure for PPARgamma regulation , a central target of lipid metabolism . FAU - Ang , Beijun
Mitochondria-targeted delivery is a promising strategy in anticancer drug development . Triphenylphosphine cation ( TPP ( + ) ) is the most widely used mitochondrial-targeting carrier due to the elevated mitochondrial membrane potential ( MMP ) in cancer cells . Here , we report the serendipitous discovery of a mitochondrial-targeting carrier , compound 23 , which exhibited potent anticancer activity ( IC = 70 nM , HCC827 ) with minimal toxicity to normal cells . Compound 23 selectively accumulates in cancer cell mitochondria , induces MMP depolarization , and activates mitophagy via PINK1-Parkin pathway . It also disruptes mitochondrial functions , elevates ROS levels , and inhibits the xCT-GSH-GPX4 axis , leading to lipid peroxidation and ferroptotic cell death . In vivo , 23 significantly suppressed the growth of HCC827 xenograft tumors at 10 mg/kg . These findings support compound 23 as a highly selective and effective mitochondrial-targeting anticancer agent for further investigation . FAU - Huang , Ding
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : The removal of the toxic oxidized cholesterol , 7-ketocholesterol ( 7KC ) , from cells through the administration of therapeutics has the potential to treat atherosclerosis and various other pathologies . While cholesterol is a necessary building block for homeostasis , oxidation of cholesterol can lead to the formation of toxic oxysterols with 7KC being the most prominent . 7KC is primarily formed through the non-enzymatic oxidation of cholesterol and is found in high levels in oxidized LDL ( oxLDL ) particles , which are highly implicated in heart disease . 7KC is implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases , including multiple sclerosis , hypercholesterolemia , sickle cell anemia , and multiple age-related diseases . Of particular interest is the role of 7KC in the progression of atherosclerosis , with several studies associating elevated 7KC levels with the etiology and severity of the disease and in the underlying transition of macrophages to foam cells . METHODS : This research aims to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of UDP-003 , a novel therapeutic compound , in mitigating the harmful effects of 7KC in mouse and human monocyte and macrophage cell lines . RESULTS : Experimental evidence demonstrates that administration of UDP-003 can reverse the foam cell phenotype , rejuvenating these cells by returning phagocytic function , preventing loss in efferocytosis ability , and decreasing both reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and intracellular lipid droplet accumulation . We further demonstrate that UDP-003 drives urinary excretion of 7KC in vivo and has a safety/toxicity profile compatible with initiation of human clinical trials . CONCLUSIONS : Our data suggest that the targeted removal of 7KC from foam cells with UDP-003 can potentially prevent and reverse atherosclerotic plaque formation . UDP-003 has the potential to be the first disease-modifying therapeutic approach to treating atherosclerotic disease .
OBJECTIVE : This study investigated oxidative stress and its impact on sperm quality in men with infertility , focusing on lipid peroxidation and the activity of antioxidant enzymes-catalase ( CAT ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and glutathione peroxidase ( GPx ) -in seminal fluid . METHODS : This study was conducted from January 2021 to January 2023 and involved 163 male patients who had been experiencing infertility for over a year . The participants were categorized according to semen quality . Semen samples were analyzed for sperm concentration , motility , and morphology following the World Health Organization guidelines . Oxidative stress was evaluated by measuring levels of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , an indicator of lipid peroxidation , as well as the activity of CAT , SOD , and GPx . Ethical approval and informed consent were obtained from all participants . RESULTS : Semen quality and oxidative stress were evaluated in cases of male infertility , with patients categorized into five groups : normozoospermia , oligozoospermia , asthenozoospermia , teratozoospermia , and oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia . The pathological groups exhibited significant reductions in sperm count , motility , and morphology . Additionally , lipid peroxidation , as shown by increased MDA levels , was significantly elevated in all pathological groups . The activities of CAT , SOD , and GPx were significantly diminished in these groups , with the most substantial declines noted in the oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia group . CONCLUSION : Oxidative stress , indicated by elevated MDA levels , was correlated with poor sperm quality . The decreased activity of antioxidant enzymes in pathological semen implies that a weakened antioxidant defense contributes to sperm dysfunction . These findings suggest that antioxidant interventions could improve sperm quality in men experiencing infertility , though additional research is required . FAU - Rhouma , Maroua Ben
Seed priming is a promising approach to increasing salt acclimation , but the role of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) remains unclear . This study investigated if ER activation by tunicamycin ( TM ) as a seed priming agent promotes salt acclimation in rice ( Oryza sativa L . ) seedlings . The results showed that salinity ( 150mM NaCl ) decreased the seedling growth . However , priming seeds with TM increased dry mass , length , photosynthetic pigments and K ( + ) contents , osmotic potential , and antioxidant enzyme activities under salinity . Conversely , it decreased intracellular Na ( + ) accumulation , electrolyte leakage , lipid peroxidation , and ROS levels . Additionally , TM priming enhanced the expression of ER response gene markers OsIRE1 , OsbZIP50 , and OsbZIP60 in seedlings under salinity . Metabolomic profiling revealed that TM priming and salinity positively modulated salt-defensive metabolites in shoots , including the osmoprotectants beta-alanine and maltose . In roots , it led to a higher accumulation of phosphoric acid , the amino acids O-acetylserine and N-acetylserine ( involved in Fe and S metabolism ) , and the sugars maltose , raffinose , and sorbitol , which also function as osmoprotectants and energy sources . In conclusion , TM seed priming followed by salt stress activated ER unfolded protein response ( UPR ) . This may enhance antioxidant enzyme activity , reducing ROS levels and intracellular Na ( + ) content , thereby mitigating salt stress through the positive modulation of defense-related and energy-related metabolites . These findings suggest an efficient strategy to improve salt acclimation during the early growth stages of rice seedlings .
Atopic dermatitis ( AD ) , a prevalent inflammatory skin condition , significantly impacts patients ' quality of life due to the multifaceted etiology and the lack of targeted therapeutic options . As the " Chinese herbal antibiotic " , Houttuynia cordata is renowned for its diverse pharmacological attributes . This study aims to investigate the therapeutic potential of Houttuynia cordata polysaccharides ( HCP ) in treating AD and to elucidate the mechanisms involved . HCP alleviated AD in MC903-induced mice by reducing epidermal thickness , skin lesions , mast cell infiltration , inflammatory cytokines , and restoring barrier proteins . It also suppressed inflammatory cytokines/chemokines via the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) pathway in lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -stimulated RAW7 cells and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) / interferon-gamma ( IFN-gamma ) -induced human keratinocytes cells ( HaCaT ) . Moreover , HCP modulated inflammation-related metabolic pathways , especially restored lipid metabolic homeostasis through upregulating phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) and downregulating triglyceride ( TG ) , lysophosphatidylcholine ( LPC ) , potentially alleviating AD-like lesions and restoring barrier function . Our findings underscore the promising potential of HCP as a topical therapeutic candidate for AD treatment , offering a new direction for the development of targeted AD therapies .
BACKGROUND : Atherogenic dyslipidemia ( AD ) , characterized by low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) and elevated triglycerides ( TG ) , is associated with increased cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk . This study evaluates the association between AD and CVD in hypertension treated to systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) targets of <120 mmHg ( intensive ) or < 140 mmHg ( standard ) . METHODS : We included 9361 participants from the Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial ( SPRINT ) . Based on baseline lipid profiles , low HDL-C was defined as <40 mg/dL in men or < 50 mg/dL in women , and high TG as >/=150 mg/dL . Participants were classified into four lipid categories according to these cutoffs . AD was defined as the combination of low HDL-C and high TG . We used multivariable Cox regression to evaluate the association between lipid categories and the primary SPRINT outcome , a composite of major CVD events . RESULTS : Over a median 8-year follow-up , 726 primary outcome events occurred . The incidence of the primary outcome was 5% ( n = 104 ) in those with AD and 4% ( n = 434 ) with normal HDL-C and TG . Compared to the reference group ( normal HDL-C with normal TG ) , the hazard ratios ( HRs ) for primary outcome were 07 ( 95 % CI : 85-35 ) for high TG alone , 20 ( 95 % CI : 95-52 ) for low HDL-C alone , and 41 ( 95 % CI : 12-77 ) for AD . Similarly , HRs for the primary outcome associated with AD were 38 ( 95 % CI : 02-87 ) and 44 ( 95 % CI : 01-05 ) in the standard and intensive SBP-lowering arms , respectively . CONCLUSION : Among SPRINT participants , AD was associated with a higher CVD risk . Early detection of AD in hypertensive patients , even without diabetes , may prompt greater therapeutic effort to reduce long-term CVD risk .
Lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) are effective delivery systems for RNA therapeutics , yet their intrinsic heterogeneity in size and composition make them challenging to characterize . Charge detection mass spectrometry ( CDMS ) was used to rapidly weigh thousands of individual LNPs . Diameter distributions of empty LNPs from CDMS and cryo-TEM measurements are in excellent agreement demonstrating that these particles are sufficiently stable in the high vacuum environment of the mass spectrometer for accurate mass analysis . A similarly prepared mRNA-packaged LNP sample has a peak mass at approximately 70 MDa , 31 MDa higher than that of the empty LNP sample . Four freeze-thaw ( FT ) cycles of the mRNA-LNPs results in a peak mass at approximately 5 MDa , indicating significantly degraded LNPs . The degraded LNPs are about 28 % of the population of the mRNA-LNP sample after the first FT cycle . A non-linear least squares fitting routine was developed to convolve the mass distribution of the LNP core with a function that describes the packaging distribution to fit the mRNA-LNP data . Two models of the lipid core mass distribution were used to obtain the distribution of mRNA in the packaged LNPs . These two models provide a lower and upper limit to the average mRNA packaging of 43 and 107 mRNA copies , consistent with a rough estimate of an average of 62 mRNA copies obtained from cryo-TEM images . These results demonstrate the potential for label-free , rapid characterization of mass , diameter , packaging , and stability of LNPs with CDMS .
Microglial phagocytosis genes have been linked to increased risk for Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , but the mechanisms translating genetic association to cellular dysfunction remain unknown . Here , we showed that microglia formed lipid droplets ( LDs ) upon amyloid-beta ( Abeta ) exposure and that LD loads increased with proximity to amyloid plaques in brains from individuals with AD and the 5xFAD mouse model . LD-laden microglia exhibited defects in Abeta phagocytosis , and unbiased lipidomic analyses identified a parallel decrease in free fatty acids ( FFAs ) and increase in triacylglycerols ( TGs ) as the key metabolic transition underlying LD formation . Diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 2 ( DGAT2 ) -a key enzyme that converts FFAs to TGs-promoted microglial LD formation and was increased in mouse 5xFAD and human AD brains . Pharmacologically targeting DGAT2 improved microglial uptake of Abeta and reduced plaque load and neuronal damage in 5xFAD mice . These findings identify a lipid-mediated mechanism underlying microglial dysfunction that could become a therapeutic target for AD .
Desmodium gyrans DC ( Fabaceae ) has been widely used in Indian and Chinese traditional medicine as a cardiotonic and for wound healing . There is not much scientific literature supporting the medicinal use of the plant . The present study aimed to evaluate the cardioprotective effect of the methanolic extract of D . gyrans in rats . The objective of the study is to validate the use of the plant in traditional medicine . The cardioprotective effect of this plant was studied in Sprague Dawley rats by separately inducing cardiomyopathy and myocardial infarction using doxorubicin ( DOX ) and isoproterenol ( ISO ) , respectively . Variations in serum cardiac markers , antioxidants , and lipid peroxidation levels in cardiac tissue were analyzed . Antioxidant status was also studied in the cardiac mitochondrial fraction . A histopathological examination of heart tissue was done . The results indicated a significant increase in the lipid peroxidation products with a concomitant reduction in the tissue antioxidant enzymes activities ( SOD and GPx ) and glutathione levels in DOX and ISO alone treated rats . However , treatment of the rats with D . gyrans restored the redox balance in the cardiac tissues of these rats . Overall , the results showed that the methanolic extract of D . gyrans has significant protective activity against ISO-induced myocardial infarction and moderate protection against DOX-induced cardiomyopathy .
Myocardial infarction ( MI ) initiates a strong inflammatory response , leading to adverse ventricular remodeling . The reconstruction of functional lymphatic networks is indispensable for relieving myocardial edema and regulating post-infarction inflammation . However , conventional protein-based therapies and viral delivery systems aimed at promoting lymphangiogenesis in the heart have shown limited therapeutic efficacy due to their inherent limitations . In this study , a lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) platform encapsulating VEGF-C mRNA was developed as a novel approach to regulate gene expression and stimulate sustained lymphatic neogenesis after MI . Intramyocardial delivery of VEGF-C mRNA-loaded LNPs significantly promoted lymphangiogenesis , reduced the infiltration of inflammatory cells , and inhibited pro-inflammatory and fibrosis-associated signaling pathways . This ultimately resulted in a substantial reduction in the fibrotic area and improved functional recovery . Our findings demonstrated that VEGF-C mRNA@LNPs repair myocardial ischemic injury by facilitating immune modulation through lymphatic neogenesis , offering a promising new therapeutic strategy with strong translational potential for treating myocardial infarction .
Alcoholic liver disease ( ALD ) remains a health burden , characterized by hepatic steatosis to fibrosis , a significant contributor to global morbidity and mortality , with limited therapeutic options for advanced stages like liver fibrosis . This study explores the antifibrotic and anti-inflammatory potential of a novel isatin-linked pyrazole derivative ( 3F ) conjugated with chitosan-EDTA ( CS ) in mitigating ethanol ( EtOH ) induced liver fibrosis in zebrafish model . We demonstrated hepatic fibrosis using a chronic low-dose EtOH model ( 2 % ) , mimicking the ALD stage . CS-3F conjugates were synthesized using ionotropic gelation , exhibiting optimal drug-loading capacity , sustained drug release , and enhanced bioavailability . Morphological characterization revealed particle sizes ranging from 50 to 300 nm , facilitating efficient cellular uptake and liver-targeted drug distribution . EtOH exposure significantly elevated hepatic biomarkers ( ALT , AST , and ALP ) , disrupted lipid metabolism ( TC and TG ) , and impaired detoxification functions ( ammonia and urea metabolism ) . Oxidative stress and inflammation were evident , with decreased SOD and CAT levels , increased MDA and LDH levels , and upregulation of pro-inflammatory and fibrotic genes ( il-1beta , tnfalpha , tgf-beta , col1a1 , and fasn ) . Treatment with CS-3F significantly ameliorated these alterations , restoring metabolic , detoxification , antioxidant functions and significantly reducing inflammation and fibrosis . Histopathological analysis confirmed improvements in liver architecture , including reduced parenchymal damage and ECM deposition . These results highlight the utility of CS-3F in reversing fibrosis and restoring liver function , offering a promising avenue for addressing the unmet therapeutic needs in ALD . However , further studies are needed to validate these findings in mammalian models and elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms .
4-hydroxy-4 ' -isopropoxydiphenylsulfone ( BPSIP ) , a common alternative to bisphenol A ( BPA ) , has been detected in breast milk and across placental barriers . However , the long-term impacts of perinatal exposure to BPSIP on adipogenesis and susceptibility to metabolic disorders later in life remain poorly understood . This study explored the effects of early-life BPSIP exposure on obesity and metabolic dysfunction in a diet-induced obesity model . Pregnant ICR mice were administered with BPSIP via oral gavage at doses of 02 , 1 , and 5 mg/kg body weight/day from gestational day 6 to postnatal day After weaning , male and female offspring from control and high dose groups were fed either a normal diet ( ND ) or a high-fat diet ( HFD ) for 6 weeks . Results showed that perinatal BPSIP exposure significantly increased serum cholesterol levels , parametrial white adipose tissue ( pWAT ) weight , and body weight in female offspring , whereas males exhibited the opposite trend . Gene expression analyses revealed sex-specific alterations in adipogenesis , lipid metabolism , and endocrine function within pWAT , with these effects being more pronounced in HFD-fed BPSIP-exposed offspring . These findings demonstrate that perinatal exposure to BPSIP disrupts lipid metabolism in a sex-dependent manner , underscoring the potential long-term metabolic risks associated with BPSIP exposure during critical developmental periods .
Phthalates , as a class of known endocrine disruptors , have been controversial because of their potential carcinogenicity and toxicity . Diisononyl cyclohexane-1 , 2-dicarboxylate ( DINCH ) is considered to be less toxic and more prone to environmental degradation , and is widely used as a substitute for phthalate . With the increasing use of DINCH in consumer products and industrial materials , the frequency of its detection in the air and human urine has also increased , which has aroused concern about its potential toxicity in food safety . Despite the increasing popularity of DINCH , toxicological studies on this topic are still limited . This study first predicted the hepatotoxicity and carcinogenicity of DINCH via the ADMETlab 0 platform . Next , the potential hepatotoxic genes associated with DINCH were collected through multiple databases , and a gene network was constructed . Through proteinprotein interaction , GO enrichment and KEGG pathway analyses , we elucidated the primary mechanism by which DINCH may induce hepatotoxicity . The expression of the selected key genes in related diseases was subsequently validated via the liver cancer database of TCGA and the NASH dataset of GEO . In addition , molecular docking technology and dynamics simulation were used to simulate the interaction and binding ability between DINCH and the core target . Cell experiments verified that DINCH increases hepatotoxicity primarily by upregulating TNF , TP53 , and PPARG . In summary , this study elucidates the potential biological mechanisms of DINCH-induced hepatotoxicity , providing new scientific insights for the prevention and management of related toxicities .
Evidence from animal and human research suggests that perfluorooctane sulfonate ( PFOS ) , a prevalent persistent organic pollutant ( POP ) , exerts neurotoxic effects , but the precise mechanisms remain unclear . Additionally , the function of activating transcription factor 4 ( ATF4 ) , a crucial modulator of cellular metabolism , redox balance , and survival , in PFOS-induced neurotoxicity has not been fully elucidated . In vitro metabolomics studies revealed that PFOS elevated the intracellular concentration of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and lowered the levels of reduced L-glutathione ( GSH ) . Significant alterations in the mRNA and protein expression levels of ferroptosis-related biomarkers , including ferroptosis-related genes [NRF2 , nuclear receptor coactivator 4 ( NCOA4 ) , KEAP1 , xCT/SLC7A11 , GPX4 , and FTH1] , cellular iron , and lipid peroxidation were observed . Moreover , erastin ( Ers ) exacerbated lipid peroxidation , which was alleviated by ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) and N-acetyl-L-cysteine ( NAC ) . In mice , PFOS exposure damaged the structure and function of the hippocampus , including decreasing the number of neurons and impairing spatial learning and memory capacity . Importantly , ferroptosis was also observed in vivo , concomitant with the inhibition of ATF4 , which was also observed in vitro . ATF4 silencing further increased ROS levels , lipid peroxidation , and ferroptosis induced by PFOS , whereas NAC and Fer-1 abrogated the effects of ATF4 silencing . Treatment with E235 , an ATF4 activator , alleviated PFOS-induced ferroptosis . In conclusion , this study revealed that ATF4-mediated ferroptosis is involved in PFOS-induced neurotoxicity , offering novel mechanistic insights into the neurotoxic effects of PFOS and potentially paving the way for new therapeutic strategies .
Childhood obesity and associated comorbidities in adulthood are of great concern worldwide . Evidence highlights the importance of lactation in later disease development . In this sense , obese children are at great risk of developing adult obesity , insulin resistance , type 2 diabetes , and cardiovascular disease at adulthood . PPARalpha activation during lactation promotes the expression of key enzymes involved in lipid oxidation , and it was associated with reduced adiposity in children . Therefore , we hypothesized that an animal model of childhood obesity , small litter ( SL ) , would lead to the development of obesity and metabolic dysfunction in adulthood , which could be prevented by postnatal PPARalpha agonism . Wistar dams had their litter reduced , leading to postnatal overfeeding and obesity early in life . SL male pups were treated with fenofibrate , an PPARalpha agonist , during lactation , from postnatal day ( PND ) 1 until weaning ( PND21 ) , to verify whether PPARalpha activation prevents the developmental programming at adulthood ( PND120 ) . Childhood obesity induced by postnatal overfeeding leads to decreased markers for oxidative metabolism during infancy , leading to increased visceral adiposity and oxidative stress , insulin resistance , hepatic microvesicular steatosis , and increased fibroblast growth factor 21 ( Fgf21 ) expression , followed by decreased brown adipose tissue ( BAT ) sympathetic nerve activity and decreased Fgfr1 hypothalamic expression in adulthood . Agonist-induced PPARalpha activation during lactation mitigated the development of aforementioned alterations in adulthood . Postnatal fenofibrate treatment prevents the developmental programming of visceral obesity , liver-associated metabolic dysfunction and BAT autonomic sympathetic hypoactivity in an animal model of childhood obesity .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ( HoFH ) is a rare genetic disorder characterized by severely elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) from birth , leading to accelerated atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and premature death if untreated . Evinacumab , a monoclonal antibody targeting angiopoietin-like 3 ( ANGPTL3 ) , offers an LDL receptor-independent pathway to lower LDL-C . This study aimed to evaluate the effect of evinacumab on lipid levels and its potential to reduce lipoprotein apheresis ( LA ) frequency in children and adolescents with HoFH . METHODS : This was a single-center , retrospective , observational study of six patients aged 10-19 years who had genetically confirmed HoFH and were treated with stable doses of lipid-lowering therapy ( LLT ) and evinacumab with or without LA at the Medical University of Vienna . Demographic characteristics , lipid levels , and treatment details were collected . RESULTS : At the first visit , LDL-C levels ranged from 521 to 870 mg/dL ( 5-5 mmol/L ) . With stable LLT plus LA , pre-LA LDL-C levels were reduced to 212-352 mg/dL ( 5-1 mmol/L ) and , after evinacumab was added , further reductions to 90-201 mg/dL ( 3-2 mmol/L ) were observed . However , during periods of reduced LA frequency , pre-LA LDL-C levels increased to 105-216 mg/dL ( 7-6 mmol/L ) , exceeding the target of 115 mg/dL ( 0 mmol/L ) in three out of four patients . LA frequency reduction from weekly to three times per month was only possible in one patient , but no patients had termination of LA . CONCLUSIONS : Evinacumab effectively lowers LDL-C in children and adolescents with HoFH . However , its ability to facilitate long-term reduction in LA frequency was not shown and remains unclear .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Atherosclerosis ( AS ) is a chronic inflammatory disease contributing to major cardiovascular events . This study aimed to investigate the effects of BAM15 , a mitochondrial uncoupler , on regulating the NLRP3/ASC/caspase-1 signaling pathway to suppress endothelial cell pyroptosis and mitigate AS . METHODS : AS was induced in ApoE-/- mice through a high-fat diet ( HFD ) , and the therapeutic effects of BAM15 ( 5 mg/kg/day , s . c . ) were evaluated . Histological analyses , including HE staining and oil red O staining , were used to assess aortic pathology and lipid deposition . Serum inflammatory cytokines ( IL-1beta , IL-18 ) were quantified by ELISA . Mouse primary aortic endothelial cells ( MAECs ) were treated with oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL ) to simulate AS condition in vitro . Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species ( mtROS ) expression and oxidized ( ox ) -mtDNA content were detected by Mitosox staining and ELISA , respectively . Western blot was used to assess the expression of pyroptosis-related proteins , including GSDMD-NT , NLRP3 , ASC , and cleaved-caspase- RESULTS : BAM15 reduced atherosclerotic plaque formation , lipid deposition , and inflammation , and diminished mtROS expression and ox-mtDNA content in the AS mouse models . In both in vivo and in vitro experiments , BAM15 markedly inhibited the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome , leading to reduced pyroptosis in endothelial cells . Activation of the NLRP3/ASC/caspase-1 signaling pathway by Nigericin partially reversed the protective effects of BAM15 , underscoring the pivotal role of NLRP3 inflammasome inhibition in endothelial pyroptosis suppression . CONCLUSIONS : BAM15 effectively inhibits endothelial cell pyroptosis by reducing mtROS production and ox-mtDNA release to suppress the NLRP3/ASC/caspase-1 signaling pathway , thereby alleviating AS in both in vivo and in vitro models .
Phosphoinositide signaling pathway has garnered significant attention in recent years due to its implication in metabolic alterations associated with various human diseases , including breast cancer . Phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate 4-kinase ( PIP4K ) catalyzes the phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol-5-phosphate ( PI5P ) to produce phosphatidylinositol-4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 ) , a lipid that regulates signaling pathways associated with cancer cell growth and metastasis . In breast cancer , PIP4Ks , especially PIP4Kalpha and PIP4Kbeta , have emerged as a significant player , with their dysregulation linked to tumor progression and poor prognosis . However , the role of PIP4Kgamma ( encoded by PIP4K2C ) , the other isoform of PIP4K family , remains largely uncharted in breast cancer . Here , we demonstrated that the expression of PIP4K2C is upregulated in breast cancer tissues opposed to the normal tissue utilizing the GTEx and the TCGA public database . The elevation of PIP4K2C expression is further confirmed in the breast cancer cell lines and tissues . Downregulated expression of PIP4K2C by siRNA lowered the subcellular PI ( 4 , 5 ) P2 and suppressed proliferation , migration and invasion of MDA-MB-468 , MCF7 breast cancer cell lines . Our research substantiates PIP4K2C as a promising diagnostic and therapeutic biomarker for breast cancer , warranting further investigation into its mechanistic and clinical implications .
Low temperature stress is the main constraint for the stable yield and production of many crops . The differences of the short- and long-term- cold responses remains unclear . In this study , in vitro VS in vivo transcriptome analysis was used to reveal the shared and specific responsive pathways under cold stress . The core responsive pathways were downregulation of photosynthesis , plant-pathogen interaction , DNA replication and repair , pyruvate metabolism ; upregulation of phenylpropanoid biosynthesis ; secondary metabolism and sugar metabolism and were enriched during the whole experiment . The significant differences between the short- and long-term cold responses were also observed . The circadian clock , MAPK- and hormonal signaling pathways were upregulated , while fatty acid biosynthesis was downregulated under the short-term cold . Under the long-term cold , response to high light , endocytosis and spliceosome were upregulated , while MAPK- and hormonal signaling were downregulated ; amino acids biosynthesis was also enriched . The key differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) and crosstalk between the secondary metabolism and the other core pathways were revealed in this study . Particularly , several DEGs ( polygalacturonase inhibitor , chitinases , disease resistance proteins , uridine 5 ' -monophosphate synthase , F-box protein CPR1-like , fatty acid amide hydrolase et al . ) which connect plant-pathogen interaction , signaling and secondary metabolism were revealed . The obtained results further clarify the key molecular responses to short- and long-term- cold and highlights the possible role of the roots in the cold-tolerance of evergreen tree crops .
The growing health consciousness of consumers has led the food industry to embrace healthier cooking methods , with air frying becoming increasingly popular in households . This study investigated the dual role of 10 hydrocolloids in reducing the formation of heterocyclic amines ( HAs ) and advanced glycation end products ( AGEs ) in air-fried beef patties while preserving physicochemical and sensory qualities . Marination with hydrocolloids at concentrations of 1-0 % mitigated lipid/protein oxidation , retained moisture , improved texture , and significantly inhibited HA ( 3-4 % ) and AGE ( 3-1 % ) formation . Among the hydrocolloids , chitosan ( 5 % and 0 % ) demonstrated optimal efficacy , reducing HAs and AGEs contents by 8-55 % and 4-2 % , respectively with limited effects on the key flavor compound . Mechanistically , hydrocolloids formed protective matrices , scavenged free radicals , and reacted with Maillard reaction intermediates . These findings provide actionable insights for developing safer air-fried meat products without compromising quality , addressing critical public health concerns related to dietary carcinogens .
In the present study , the differences among NLs prepared with soybean phospholipids ( SPL ) , soybean phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , and sunflower seed phospholipids ( SSPL ) were investigated . The structural characteristics , physical stability , in vitro release , and bio-accessibility of NLs co-encapsulating curcumin ( Cur ) and oligomeric proanthocyanidins ( OPC ) were evaluated . Compared with PC and SSPL , SPL co-encapsulated Cur and OPC NLs ( SPL-co-loaded-NLs ) had a smaller particle size ( 147 nm ) , a more uniform shape ( spherical bilayer structure ) , and better size homogeneity . In addition , SPL-co-loaded-NLs also possessed the highest stability , antioxidant capacity ( DPPH . scavenging rate : 79 % , FRAP value : 17 mmol Fe ( 2+ ) /mL ) , and bio-accessibility ( Cur : 93 % , OPC : 96 % ) . Furthermore , FT-IR and XRD confirmed that the higher stability of SPL-co-loaded-NLs compared with other NLs was due to their tighter lipid structure , tighter lipid aggregation , and stronger hydrophobic and hydrogen bonding interactions between active substances and phospholipids . This study was expected to provide a theoretical reference for developing functional foods with co-encapsulated active substances of different polarities .
Litopenaeus vannamei is an important aquaculture species and faces complex stress challenges in saline-alkali water , such as high pH and alkalinity . In this study , the immune and metabolic responses of L . vannamei under acute interactive stress ( pH 2 , alkalinity 350 mg / L ) were investigated by multi-omics analysis . The results showed that significant changes in antioxidant enzyme activity ( e . g . , increased SOD , decreased GSH-Px ) and immune-related pathways ( lysosomes , TGF-beta , glutathione metabolism ) were affected . Transcriptome analysis identified 1968 DEGs , which were mainly enriched in apoptosis , immune defense , and energy metabolism pathways . Metabolomics revealed the disorder of lipid , amino acid , and nucleotide metabolism , and key metabolites ( such as arachidonic acid and sphingomyelin ) were related to oxidative stress and membrane stability . Multi-omics integration showed that PI3K-AKT and TGF-beta signaling pathways were coordinated and regulated under stress conditions . WGCNA analysis obtained a total of 19 co-expression modules . Among them , 13 hub genes related to saline-alkali stress were screened out in the turquoise and brown modules , and a transcriptional regulatory network was constructed . The expression patterns of five pairs of genes in four hot pathways under saline-alkali stress were verified . In summary , high pH and alkalinity interaction stress induces oxidative damage , disrupts metabolic homeostasis , and triggers adaptive responses through immune activation and energy redistribution . This study provides clues for exploring the molecular response mechanism of L . vannamei under saline-alkali stress and provides a theoretical basis for optimizing shrimp culture in saline-alkali waters .
In sheep , diet-induced milk fat depression ( MFD ) results from ruminal alterations when ewes are fed marine lipids to modulate milk fatty acid profile and secretion . However , there is little available information on the relationship between characteristics existing before the consumption of MFD-inducing diets and response to those diets . Understanding predisposing factors for this condition may provide additional insight into the mechanisms of MFD and allow better predictions of its occurrence . Thus , a meta-analytical approach was used to identify traits that may predetermine the extent of marine lipid-induced MFD in individual Assaf sheep ( a dairy breed with high genetic potential for milk production ) . Data were collected from 10 trials in which 160 ewes were fed 16 diets that included fish oil or marine algae until sustained MFD was observed . The decrease in milk fat concentration and yield was calculated using three approaches : absolute change ( final - initial ) , relative change as a percent of pre-trial value , and potential change relative to the maximal expected MFD ( assuming a maximal decrease to 3% milk fat ) . First , using bivariate analyses , there was a relationship between initial milk fat concentration and the absolute ( R = 46 ; partial R of 08 ) , relative ( R = 39 ; partial R of 06 ) , and potential changes in milk fat concentration during MFD ( R = 17 ; partial R = 03 ) . This finding was supported by a second approach that categorised ewes by initial milk fat concentration and yield and additionally by multivariate analyses . In addition , bivariate and multivariate analyses suggested that high MFD responsiveness in Assaf ewes was related to pre-trial milk yield and protein concentration , and to milk concentrations of candidate antilipogenic metabolites and the sum of preformed fatty acids . However , relationships were weaker than for initial milk fat concentration . Overall , when Assaf ewes were fed marine lipids , the higher the initial milk fat concentration , the greater the extent of MFD . The role of other performance traits and milk fatty acids as predisposing factors for marine lipid-induced MFD remains unclear .
Cathepsins are lysosomal proteases with well-documented roles in the progression of various cancers . Among them , cathepsin B ( CTSB ) , a cysteine protease , is notably involved in the development of breast cancer and neuroblastoma . In this study , we explored the potential of darifenacin as a repurposed therapeutic targeting CTSB , using molecular docking and simulation studies which demonstrated a significantly lower binding energy against CTSB ( -268 kJ/mol ) compared to its known inhibitor , aloxistatin ( -601 kJ/mol ) . The cytotoxic efficacy of darifenacin was evaluated on IMR-32 ( neuroblastoma ) and MCF-7 ( breast cancer ) cells , yielding half-maximal inhibitory concentrations ( IC50 ) of 14 and 96 microM , respectively . Darifenacin effectively inhibited CTSB enzymatic activity by ~82 and ~75-fold in IMR-32 and MCF-7 cells , respectively , triggering intracellular ROS generation , mitochondrial membrane potential depolarization , and cell cycle arrest . These events culminated in apoptosis-mediated cell death , with apoptotic populations reaching 39% in IMR-32 and 6% in MCF-7 cells , respectively . Additionally , darifenacin disrupted lipid droplet accumulation , cellular migration , and colony and sphere-forming abilities in both cell lines . Overall , this study identifies darifenacin as a promising therapeutic agent against CTSB-driven cancer progression .
In recent years , nano technology emerged as a significant approach in drug delivery . Solid Lipid Nanoparticles are on forefront in field of nanotechnology , Lipid nanoparticles have an opportunity to create novel therapies because of their special size-dependent characteristics . This research work was aimed to formulate and optimize Dolichos lablab phytoextract fraction ( DLPEF ) loaded Nano Lipid Carrier ( NLC ) and to evaluate its anti-diabetic potential . DLPEF loaded nano lipid particles preparations were made using hot homogenization method and were characterized for particle size , shape , drug loading , in vitro drug release and were screened in-vivo for anti-diabetic activity . From our resulting data , an optimized formulation of DLPEF loaded NLC showed promising results . They were found to be spherical size of 7 nm , Polydispersity Index and Drug Loading for the optimized nanolipid carrier preparation were found at 667 +/- 3 and 30 +/- 2% respectively . The in vitro drug release for optimized NLC formulation was found to be 85% +/- 2 for 18 h . No changes were observed in shape and morphology , confirmed through TEM and SEM after 3 months of stability studies . Diabetes was induced by Streptozotocin , DLPEF NLC treated group showed reduced glucose concentration . The histopathological alterations were also studied in all experimental groups , results of DLPEF NLC treated group showed regeneration of islet cells of pancreas . Thus we could concur that DLPEF NF has almost the same therapeutic potential as standard drug . In conclusion , Dolichos lablab phytoextract NLC substantially improved the solubility , stability and efficacy of the fraction making it a treatment option for diabetes mellitus . FAU - Barman , Moumita
Several oxylipins are potent lipid mediators that regulate diverse aspects of health and disease and whose quantitative analysis by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) presents substantial technical challenges . As members of the lipidomics community , we developed technical recommendations to ensure best practices when quantifying oxylipins by LC-MS . FAU - Schebb , Nils Helge
BACKGROUND AND AIM : Using cross-sectional data from the 2009-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey , the purpose of this study was to investigate the potential link between lipid accumulation product and gout/hyperuricemia . METHODS : The data from 10 , 871 individuals who participated in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey spanning the years 2009-2018 were utilized for additional scrutiny . Participants self-reported gout and hyperuricemia as measured by laboratory test data , and other relevant variables and information for LAP were included . Multivariate logistic regression , restricted cubic spline and p-trend test were employed to determine the association between LAP and gout/hyperuricemia . RESULTS : The study included 10 , 871 adults . The prevalence of hyperuricemia and gout was 9% and 57% , respectively . Compared with the first quartile , the fourth quartile of lipid accumulation product was associated with a 271% higher risk of hyperuricemia ( OR = 711 , 95% CI 732-042 , p < 001 ) in a fully adjusted model . A similar association was found between continuous increase in lipid accumulation product and hyperuricemia ( OR = 441 , 95%CI = 348-42 , p = 005 ) , with p trends showing both < The RCS model suggests a significant non-linear relationship between lipid accumulation product and the risk of gout/hyperuricemia . There was an inverted U-shaped relationship between lipid accumulation product and gout/hyperuricemia . CONCLUSIONS : This study confirmed that lipid accumulation product has a high potential to predict the risk of gout/hyperuricemia . These findings suggested that the adjustment of the degree of fat accumulation may be a potential way to prevent and control the onset of gout/hyperuricemia .
INTRODUCTION : Major burns results in the rapid and profound accumulation of lipid in peripheral tissues , but its impact on muscle metabolic function is unclear . Given previous reports demonstrating that lipid oversupply compromises processes instrumental in the maintenance of muscle protein balance , we hypothesize that burn-induced lipid accumulation contributes to the loss of muscle mass with thermal injury . METHODS : To investigate this further , 48 male Sprague Dawley rats were randomized to undergo either a 60% total body surface area burn or sham procedure . To elucidate the impact of burn-induced lipid accumulation , animals were further subdivided to receive either acipimox ( 50 mg . kg-1 b . w . ) , a lipolysis inhibitor administered to deplete intramuscular lipids , or vehicle ( PBS ) , daily for 7 days . Throughout , animals received deuterated water to permit the determination of muscle protein kinetics . RESULTS : Compared to sham animals , burn injury resulted in a 12% loss of gastrocnemius muscle mass ( P < 001 ) , paralleled by a 30 and 40 increase in the fractional synthetic and breakdown rates of gastrocnemius mixed proteins ( P < 01 ) , respectively , culminating in a 2-fold decline in net muscle protein ( P < 01 ) . Contrary to expectations , burns had no impact on muscle triglyceride content , while acipimox treatment failed to protect muscle mass , impact muscle triglyceride concentrations , or muscle protein kinetics . CONCLUSIONS : In a rodent model of burns , the loss of muscle mass primarily occurs due to the acceleration of muscle proteolysis , independent of any change in muscle lipid content .
In the Northwest Atlantic Ocean , northern shrimp ( Pandalus borealis ) play key ecological roles as mid-trophic level consumers and as prey to higher-trophic level predators , including commercial fish species . However , the effects of changing environmental conditions and biological processes on trophic interactions in sub-Arctic ecosystems , particularly on lipid storage and nutrient transfer from intermediate to high trophic levels , remain unclear . Biochemical tracer methods ( i . e . , fatty acids and stable isotopes ) were employed to study the trophic ecology and stage-specific nutritional condition of P . borealis across different spatial and seasonal scales . Trophic markers indicated significant contributions from both diatoms and zooplankton to the diet of P . borealis and highlighted the adaptability of this species to opportunistic feeding strategies based on sinking phytodetritus . Our results revealed a strong seasonality in the lipid composition of P . borealis , with lipid dynamics being highly influenced by environmental conditions and resource availability . The primary lipid classes in P . borealis were storage triacylglycerols , accounting for over 50% of lipids observed , followed by membrane phospholipids . Eggs from ovigerous females exhibited the highest concentrations of total lipids and essential fatty acids , such as omega-3 fatty acids , underscoring the important ecological role of eggs in sub-Arctic food webs by providing high-quality lipid sources . Additionally , our findings indicated an increase in the total lipid content of shrimp eggs from spring to summer , suggesting that the early stages of P . borealis are vulnerable to changes in the timing of seasonal primary production , when females store large reserves of energy-rich lipids . This study highlights the large seasonal and temporal variability in the nutritional status of P . borealis and underlines the importance of understanding lipid dynamics in assessing the resilience of populations to environmental changes .
The SARS-CoV-2 virus and its rapid spread have made it a global health concern . The aim of this was to investigate the microbial and metabolic faecal profiles of paediatric patients hospitalised for COVID-19 to try to identify biomarkers of predisposition to severity . The study included 16 patients ( aged 4-14 years old ) from six different Spanish hospitals and 20 age-matched healthy controls . The gut microbiota was characterised by sequencing of 16S rDNA amplicons and internal transcribed space amplicons , while the metabolic profile was analysed by liquid chromatography high resolution mass spectrometry . A different microbial profile was observed between patients and controls , with a significantly higher abundance of sequences belonging to the phyla Bacteroidota and Pseudomonadota in patients . A different metabolic profile was observed between the two groups . Non-infected children had higher faecal levels of vitamins such as niacin , thiamine , and vitamin D3 derivatives , which were negatively correlated with the abundance of pathogenic bacteria , such as members of Enterobacteriaceae . Hospitalisation due to SARS-CoV-2 infection in children was associated with changes in the gut microbiota and an altered metabolomic profile . For the first time , several relevant biological compounds were found to be reduced in the faeces of children hospitalised with COVID-19 compared to healthy controls .
Early in the evolution of life , a proto-metabolic network was encapsulated within a membrane compartment . The permeability characteristics of the membrane determined several key functions of this network by determining which compounds could enter the compartment and which compounds could not . One key feature of known life is the utilization of right-handed d-ribose and d-deoxyribose sugars and left-handed l-amino acid stereochemical isomers ( enantiomers ) ; however , it is not clear why life adopted this specific chirality . Generally , archaea have l-phospholipid membrane chemistries and bacteria and eukaryotes have d-phospholipid membrane chemistries . We previously demonstrated that an l-archaeal and a d-intermediate membrane mimic , bearing a mixture of bacterial and archaeal lipid characteristics ( a ' hybrid ' membrane ) , displayed increased permeability for several key compounds compared to bacterial-like membranes . Here , we investigate if these membranes can drive stereochemical selection on pentose sugars , hexose sugars , and amino acids . Using permeability assays of homogenous unilamellar vesicles , we demonstrate that both membranes select for d-ribose and d-deoxyribose sugars while the hybrid membrane uniquely selects for a reduced alphabet of l-amino acids . This repertoire includes alanine , the plausible first l-amino acid utilized . We conclude such compartments could provide stereochemical compound selection matching those used by the core metabolism of life .
BACKGROUND : Ultra-processed food ( UPF ) accounts for a majority of calories consumed in the United States , but the impact on human health remains unclear . We aimed to identify poly-metabolite scores in blood and urine that are predictive of UPF intake . METHODS AND FINDINGS : Of the 1 , 082 Interactive Diet and Activity Tracking in AARP ( IDATA ) Study ( clinicaltrials . gov ID NCT03268577 ) participants , aged 50-74 years , who provided biospecimen consent , n = 718 with serially collected blood and urine and one to six 24-h dietary recalls ( ASA-24s ) , collected over 12-months , met eligibility criteria and were included in the metabolomics analysis . Ultra-high performance liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry was used to measure >1 , 000 serum and urine metabolites . Average daily UPF intake was estimated as percentage energy according to the Nova system . Partial Spearman correlations and Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator ( LASSO ) regression were used to estimate UPF-metabolite correlations and build poly-metabolite scores of UPF intake , respectively . Scores were tested in a post-hoc analysis of a previously conducted randomized , controlled , crossover-feeding trial ( clinicaltrials . gov ID NCT03407053 ) of 20 subjects who were admitted to the NIH Clinical Center and randomized to consume ad libitum diets that were 80% or 0% energy from UPF for 2 weeks immediately followed by the alternate diet for 2 weeks ; eligible subjects were between 18-50 years old with a body mass index of >5 kg/m2 and weight-stable . IDATA participants were 51% female , and 97% completed >/=4 ASA-24s . Mean intake was 50% energy from UPF . UPF intake was correlated with 191 ( of 952 ) serum and 293 ( of 1 , 044 ) 24-h urine metabolites ( FDR-corrected P-value < 01 ) , including lipid ( n = 56 serum , n = 22 24-h urine ) , amino acid ( n = 33 , 61 ) , carbohydrate ( n = 4 , 8 ) , xenobiotic ( n = 33 , 70 ) , cofactor and vitamin ( n = 9 , 12 ) , peptide ( n = 7 , 6 ) , and nucleotide ( n = 7 , 10 ) metabolites . Using LASSO regression , 28 serum and 33 24-h urine metabolites were selected as predictors of UPF intake ; biospecimen-specific scores were calculated as a linear combination of selected metabolites . Overlapping metabolites included ( S ) C ( S ) S-S-Methylcysteine sulfoxide ( rs = -23 , -19 ) , N2 , N5-diacetylornithine ( rs = -27 for serum , -26 for 24-h urine ) , pentoic acid ( rs = -30 , -32 ) , and N6-carboxymethyllysine ( rs = 15 , 20 ) . Within the cross-over feeding trial , the poly-metabolite scores differed , within individual , between UPF diet phases ( P-value for paired t test < 001 ) . IDATA Study participants were older US adults whose diets may not be reflective of other populations . CONCLUSIONS : Poly-metabolite scores , developed in IDATA participants with varying diets , are predictive of UPF intake and could advance epidemiological research on UPF and health . Poly-metabolite scores should be evaluated and iteratively improved in populations with a wide range of UPF intake .
BACKGROUND : Inclisiran administration twice-yearly ( after initial and 3-month doses ) effectively reduces low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) in patients on maximally tolerated statins with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) , risk equivalents , or heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia . OBJECTIVE : To evaluate whether inclisiran is superior as monotherapy , over placebo and ezetimibe , in reducing LDL-C in a primary prevention population without ASCVD . METHODS : VICTORION-Mono ( V-Mono ) , a 6-month , randomized , double-blind , multicenter , placebo- and active-comparator controlled Phase 3 trial , assessed inclisiran monotherapy in adult participants ( age 18-75 years ) without prior ASCVD , diabetes , or familial hypercholesterolemia , with a fasting LDL-C >/=100 to <190 mg/dL and 10-year predicted ASCVD risk of <5% by pooled cohort equation , who were not receiving any lipid-lowering therapy . Participants were randomized ( 2 : 1 : 1 ) to inclisiran , ezetimibe , or placebo . The primary endpoint was percentage change from baseline in LDL-C , and key secondary endpoints included absolute change in LDL-C and percentage change in proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( PCSK9 ) from baseline to Day The study did not evaluate twice-yearly inclisiran dosing beyond the first 180 days . Safety was also assessed . RESULTS : Overall , 350 participants were randomized ( n=174 , n=89 , and n=87 to inclisiran , ezetimibe , or placebo , respectively ) and received the assigned treatments . The study included a diverse population : 6% of participants were female , 6% were Black or African American , and 7% were Hispanic/Latino . Mean participant age was 1 years , mean baseline LDL-C level was 4 mg/dL , mean body mass index was 8 kg/m , and median 10-year predicted ASCVD risk score was 2% . The mean percentage change in LDL-C from baseline at Day 150 for placebo was 4% , for ezetimibe -2% , and inclisiran -5% . The difference in the change from baseline with inclisiran versus placebo was -9% and versus ezetimibe was -4% ( both p<0001 ) . Inclisiran treatment also demonstrated favorable improvements in other lipid and lipoprotein ( a ) levels . Inclisiran was well-tolerated , with no new safety concerns . CONCLUSION : V-Mono demonstrates for the first time that in patients not receiving LLT , inclisiran as monotherapy , is superior to both placebo and ezetimibe in reducing LDL-C levels over a six-month follow-up period and was well tolerated . These findings are consistent with prior observations in statin-treated patients .
OBJECTIVE : Gestational hypertension , pre-eclampsia , and eclampsia pose significant risks to maternal and fetal health , yet their underlying causes remain unclear . This study investigates the associations between 233 metabolites and these conditions . METHODS : We analyzed data from the Genome-Wide Association Studies ( GWAS ) database for gestational hypertension , pre-eclampsia , and eclampsia . The bidirectional two-sample MR analysis examined causal relationships using inverse variance weighting as the primary method , supplemented by MR-Egger , weighted median , simple mode , and weighted mode . Sensitivity analyses assessed robustness , heterogeneity , and horizontal pleiotropy . RESULTS : In the forward Mendelian randomization analysis , a reduction in citrate levels ( OR = 906 , 95% CI = 829-990 , p = . 029 ) is associated with an increased risk of gestational hypertension . The ratio of conjugated linoleic acid to total fatty acids ( OR = 172 , 95% CI = 026-339 , p = . 019 ) is associated with an increased risk of gestational hypertension . The ratio of conjugated linoleic acid to total fatty acids ( OR = 288 , 95% CI = 064-560 , p = . 009 ) is associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia and eclampsia . The phospholipids to total lipids ratio in large HDL ( OR = 227 , 95% CI = 120-344 , p = 91 x 10 ; -6 ) is associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia and eclampsia . The total cholesterol to total lipids ratio in chylomicrons and extremely large VLDL ( OR = 884 , 95% CI = 789-990 , p = . 033 ) is associated with an increased risk of preeclampsia and eclampsia . In the reverse Mendelian randomization analysis , the occurrence of gestational hypertension is associated with a reduction in Cholesteryl esters to total lipids ratio in very large VLDL ( OR = 987 , 95% CI = 975-999 , p = . 044 ) . The occurrence of preeclampsia and eclampsia is associated with a reduction in total choline levels ( OR = 989 , 95% CI = 979-998 , p = . 029 ) , and with a reduction in total phosphoglycerides levels ( OR = 988 , 95% CI = 978-997 , p = . 012 ) . Sensitivity analysis did not detect significant heterogeneity or pleiotropy . CONCLUSION : This research elucidates the causal links between specific metabolites and gestational hypertension , pre-eclampsia , and eclampsia , potentially informing new clinical approaches for diagnosis and treatment . FAU - Guo , Shi
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality , associated with viral hepatitis , alcohol consumption , and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease . Hepatocyte nuclear factor 4 alpha ( HNF4alpha ) , a crucial transcription factor for liver function ( glucose and lipid metabolism , bile acid homeostasis , and cellular differentiation ) , is often dysregulated in HCC progression . This review provides a comprehensive overview of the role of HNF4alpha in hepatic oncogenesis , providing novel inshight into its regulatory effects on epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , metabolic alterations ( including the Warburg effect ) , cell cycle control , and tumor microenvironment . We also discuss therapeutic strategies targeting HNF4alpha focusing on restoring metabolic balance and inducing apoptosis . This integrated analysis advances our understanding of HNF4alpha ' s contribution to HCC and may pave the way for the development of targeted therapies ( Fig . 1 ) .
In this paper , we report the development of a device that improves the conventional artificial lipid bilayer method and can measure channel currents more efficiently . Ion channel proteins are an attractive research target in biophysics , because their functions can be measured at the single-molecule level with high time resolution . In addition , they have attracted attention as targets for drug discovery because of their crucial roles in vivo . Although electrophysiological methods are powerful tools for studying channel proteins , they suffer from low measurement efficiency and require considerable skill . In our previous paper , we reported that by immobilizing channel proteins on agarose gel beads and forming an artificial lipid bilayer on the bead surface , we simultaneously solved two problems that had been hindering the efficiency of the artificial bilayer method : the time-consuming formation of artificial lipid bilayers and the time-consuming incorporation of channels into artificial bilayers . Previous studies have utilized crosslinked hard beads ; however , here we show that channel current measurement can be achieved more simply and efficiently using non-crosslinked soft beads . In this study , we detailed the process of immobilizing channel proteins on the surface of non-crosslinked beads through chemical modification , allowing us to measure their channel activity . This method enables current measurements without the need for stringent bead size selection or high negative pressure .
Autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) is a neurodevelopmental disorder that affects multiple brain regions , including the cerebellum . It is characterized by behavioral alterations that significantly impact various aspects of patients ' lives . The present study was conducted to examine the anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and neuromodulatory activities of plumbagin ( PLB ) in a valproic acid ( VPA ) -induced autism model . Pregnant rats received an intraperitoneal ( i . p . ) injection of VPA ( 600 mg/kg ) on day 5 of pregnancy . After birth , offspring were orally administered different doses of PLB ( 25 , 5 , and 1 mg/kg ) from days 7 to Social interaction and preference were assessed via a three-chamber social assay . Hematoxylineosin ( H&E ) staining was performed to observe histopathological changes in the cerebellum . Moreover , astrocyte and microglial activation were evaluated by immunostaining . The gene expression levels of Nrf2 , HO-1 , BDNF , SIRT1 , IL-6 , IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and TGF-beta1 were evaluated via quantitative real-time PCR ( qRTPCR ) . These findings revealed that PLB treatment significantly alleviates social impairments . PLB ameliorated the loss of Purkinje cells and the number of activated astrocytes and microglia in the cerebellum . PLB administration also upregulated the gene expression of Nrf2 , HO-1 , BDNF , SIRT1 , and TGF-beta1 and downregulated the IL-6 expression level . Overall , it seems that PLB diminishes autism-related damage in the cerebellum through neuromodulatory activities and attenuation of oxidative stress and inflammation .
Most of the available preclinical Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) and steatohepatitis ( MASH ) models fail to resemble metabolic comorbidities and liver fibrosis . To establish a standard MASLD/MASH model , we characterized some morphological , biochemical , and transcriptomic features in a Western diet-induced MASLD model in mice , depicting its similarities to the corresponding human disease . Male C57BL/6J mice received a hypercaloric diet containing sucrose , saturated fat , and cholesterol-rich chow , and high sugar solution for 24 weeks . This model featured a distinct MASH phenotype with obesity , impaired glucose metabolism , hypercholesterolemia , extensive macro and microvesicular , liver steatosis , and slight-to-moderate pericellular/perisinusoidal fibrosis , which was in keeping with the increased hepatic levels of IL-6 and TNF-alpha , and upregulation of 18 collagen subunit genes ( as Col1a1 , Col1a2 , Col3a1 , Col5a2 , Col4a1 , Col6a3 , Col14a1 , Col6a2 , Col5a1 ) , 34 cytokines or chemokines or related receptors-coding genes ( as Il15 , Cxcl9 , Ccl22 ) , 18 TNF-related genes ( as Tnfaip8l3 , Tnfrsf21 , Tnfaip8 , Tnfrfs12a ) and 12 metalloproteinase/tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases-related genes ( as Mmp2 , Mmp7 ) . The downregulated genes were negative regulators of gluconeogenesis , insulin secretion , and lipid biosynthesis , most belonging to the major urinary protein ( MUP ) family . The computational analysis of human samples revealed a similarity between our bioassay and human steatohepatitis , with the upregulation of fibrosis- and inflammation-associated orthologs ( COL1A1 , COL1A2 , COL3A1 , COL5A2 , COL4A1 , COL6A3 , COL14A1 , COL6A2 , COL5A1 , TNFAIP8L3 , TNFRSF21 , TNFAIP8 , TNFRFS12A , IL15 , CXCL9 , CCL22 , MMP2 , MMP7 ) . Our mouse model may be applied as a standard MASH translational bioassay , providing valuable insights into the inflammatory/fibrosis axis of this chronic disease , from the pathogenesis to therapeutic intervention .
PURPOSE : Lichen sclerosus ( LS ) is a chronic inflammatory skin condition affecting genital areas and associated with autoimmune processes . Circumcision is the primary treatment for phimosis in pediatric LS , and corticosteroids are considered the best choice for medical management . Recently , Ozoile , stable ozonides obtained through green technology from extravirgin olive oil ( + OIL ( R ) ) , according to a patented process , has emerged as a potential alternative with fewer long-term side effects compared to corticosteroids . The aim of the study was to compare the immune and anti-proliferative effects of the pre-operative topical use of Ozoile and corticosteroids in children with phimosis associated with LS undergoing circumcision . METHODS : Thirty-six male patients aged 3-9 years with phimosis linked to LS were divided into three groups : Group A ( no pre-operative treatment ) , Group B ( 1% mometasone furoate ) , Group C ( Ozoile ) . Post-circumcision foreskin samples were analyzed for immune cell infiltration ( CD8 + , CD57 + ) and proliferation markers ( Ki67 , p53 ) . Non-parametric ANOVA ( Kruskal-Wallis test ) and Dunn tests were used and p value less than 05 was considered statistically significant . RESULTS : Histological analysis showed acanthotic epidermis and lymphoid infiltrate in Group A , with reduced lymphocytes and markers in Groups B and C . Groups B and C showed no significant differences in CD8 + and CD57 + lymphocytes ( p = 34 , p = 54 , respectively ) , but Group C had significantly lower proliferation markers Ki-67 ( p = 035 ) and p53 ( p = 039 ) . CONCLUSION : Both Ozoile and corticosteroids reduced inflammatory and proliferative activity in pediatric LS patients . Ozoile showed superior suppression of proliferative markers , suggesting potential benefits for patients at risk of steroid-related side effects . Further research is needed to confirm long-term benefits .
Management of keloid is still a challenge . Many treatment modalities are available , yet no definitive treatment protocol exists . Vitamin D3 ( Vit . D3 ) has an anti-inflammatory role in preventing tissue fibrosis . Platelet-rich plasma ( PRP ) contains plentiful various peptides that have anti-inflammatory and tissue repair activities . The study aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of injecting either Vit . D3 or PRP versus their combination in keloid treatment . There were sixty keloid patients in all , randomly split into three matched groups for this research . Group I received an intralesional vitamin D3 injection ; Group II got an intralesional PRP . While group III received both alternatively . All patients received treatment session biweekly until clinical cure or for a maximum of 4 successive sessions . Therapeutic efficacy was assessed by Verbal rating scale ( VRS ) , Vancouver scar scale ( VSS ) , dermoscopic , and ultrasonic examinations . Additionally , H&E and immunohistochemical expression of Caveolin-1 ( Cav-1 ) were studied . Significant improvements in both VSS and VRS of keloid scars were detected in the three groups studied . These findings were significantly higher among patients treated by combined Vit . D3 and PRP followed by Vit . D3 monotherapy , and lastly PRP monotherapy . Parallel dermoscopic and radiological findings were detected confirming the clinical results . In the three groups studied , histopathological examination reported significant reduction in collagen with more compact orientation , and significant increase of Cav-1 immunohistochemical expression in keloid scars after treatment . Intralesional injection of either Vit . D3 , PRP or their combination are safe and effective in keloid treatment .
Chronic pain is a prevalent and debilitating symptom in patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma ( NPC ) . Fresh insights indicate that tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) within the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) may undergo neuron-like differentiation , potentially contributing to pain mechanisms . By examining the apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) together with the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 ( TREM2 ) , this study aims to clarify their joint function in modulating differentiation and how this interplay might be implicated in chronic pain associated with NPC . Through comprehensive analysis using TCGA-NPC transcriptomic datasets and single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , we assessed the molecular landscapes of both NPC-affected and healthy nasopharyngeal tissues . Differential gene expression and immune cell profiling identified macrophages as key players in the inflammatory response . Single-cell sequencing revealed a distinct subpopulation of neuron-like macrophages expressing neurogenesis-related genes . Macrophage-to-neuron-like cell transformation in response to NPC cells was examined through in vitro co-culture systems , highlighting the involvement of the APOE-TREM2 regulatory pathway . In vivo studies involved macrophage depletion and TREM2 knockdown in mouse models to evaluate the impact on chronic pain development . Infiltrating macrophages were significantly more abundant in NPC samples , with many exhibiting neuron-like features that were positively linked to high levels of WNT5 A expression . In vitro , NPC cells induced macrophage differentiation into neuron-like cells , a process regulated by TREM2 and APOE . TREM2 knockdown in macrophages resulted in a reduction of chronic pain behaviors in mouse models , highlighting the contribution of the APOE-TREM2 Axis to NPC-associated chronic pain . Our findings demonstrate that NPC cells promote macrophage reprogramming through the APOE-TREM2 Axis , leading to neuron-like differentiation and contributing to chronic pain in NPC patients . Targeting this pathway may offer novel therapeutic strategies for managing chronic pain in NPC .
OBJECTIVES : This proof-of-concept study aimed to compare the biochemical composition of gingival crevicular fluid ( GCF ) and peri-implant crevicular fluid ( PICF ) under healthy conditions , through mid-infrared ( MIR ) spectroscopy . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Using a split-mouth design , GCF and PICF samples were collected from 12 participants and analyzed through MIR spectroscopy . Advanced chemometric models , including partial least squares-discriminant analysis , k-nearest neighbors , and support vector machine discriminant analysis , were applied to explore potential biochemical differences between the biofluids . RESULTS : No cluster formation was observed with PCA , indicating a high degree of similarity between groups . The PLS-DA model didn ' t effectively discriminate between GCF and PICF with prediction rates of 5% ( 10/16 ) for calibration , 5% ( 6/16 ) for cross-validation , and 50% ( 4/8 ) for validation . The k-NN model , using k = 3 neighbors showed 25% ( 4/16 ) correct classification rates during calibration and a validation set accuracy of 50% . SVM-DA analysis showed a correct prediction rate of 5% ( 6/16 ) for calibration and 50% for cross-validation 50% ( 8/16 ) and 50% ( 4/8 ) in the validation phase . Nonetheless , subtle spectral differences were observed in spectral regions R1 ( 3982-2652 cm ( - ) ) and R4 ( 1180-922 cm ( - ) ) , suggesting a slightly increased lipidic content and the presence of ethers and glycosidic bonds linked to carbohydrates , in PICF . CONCLUSIONS : The lack of significant biochemical differences between GCF and PICF under healthy conditions , as determined by MIR spectroscopy , suggests that implant-related changes in PICF composition are negligible . CLINICAL RELEVANCE : The demonstrated biochemical similarity between GCF and PICF under healthy conditions reinforces the potential of PICF as a reliable biofluid for diagnostic applications , including monitoring oral and systemic health biomarkers , without significant influence from implant-related factors .
Breast cancer , marked by considerable heterogeneity and intricate molecular subgroups , poses substantial obstacles to therapy . Epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) and the existence of tumor-initiating cells ( TICs ) facilitate treatment resistance , metastasis , and worse prognosis . The Notch signaling system has garnered significant interest for its involvement in promoting epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , maintaining tumor-initiating cells ( TIC ) , and facilitating cancer progression , especially in truculent subtypes such as triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) . Targeting the Notch system represents a promising therapeutic strategy ; nevertheless , traditional inhibitors frequently encounter obstacles , including inadequate selectivity and bioavailability . Nanocarrier-based drug delivery systems provide novel therapeutic strategies to these difficulties by augmenting the targeted delivery of Notch inhibitors and enhancing therapeutic efficacy . Solid lipid nanoparticles ( SLNs ) , polymeric nanoparticles , lipid-based nanocarriers , and micelles exhibit promise in delivering Notch inhibitors to neoplastic cells , altering the Notch signaling pathway , and surmounting drug resistance . This review examines recent breakthroughs in nanocarrier systems aimed at the Notch signaling pathway in breast cancer , highlighting the therapeutic potential of integrating nanomedicine with Notch inhibition to disrupt epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , tumor-initiating cells ( TICs ) , and metastasis , thereby enhancing clinical outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Prevailing dietary guidelines recommend replacing saturated fatty acids ( SFAs ) with unsaturated fatty acids ( USFAs ) . However , the relationship between specific types of SFA consumption and the risk of incident diabetes in China remains unclear . METHODS : We analyzed data from 15 , 021 apparently healthy Chinese adults , aged >/= 20 years , participating in the China Health and Nutrition Survey ( CHNS ) . Cumulative averages of SFA intake were calculated using 3-day , 24-h dietary recalls from each survey cycle . Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models were employed to estimate hazard ratios ( HRs ) and 95% confidence intervals ( 95% CIs ) for diabetes risk associated with isocaloric substituting carbohydrate or PUFAs with SFAs . RESULTS : Over 167 , 698 person-years of follow-up , 1014 incident diabetes were identified . After adjustment for multiple variables , isocaloric substitution of carbohydrates with total SFAs was associated with a lower risk of diabetes ( P < 001 for trend ) . The HR ( 95% CI ) among the highest quartile of SFA intake individuals compared to the lowest quartile was 56 ( 40-79 ) for even-chain SFAs and 53 ( 37-76 ) for long-chain SFAs . Specifically , an inverse association with diabetes risk was observed for isocaloric substituting carbohydrates with lauric acid ( 12 : 0 ) [HRs for increasing quartiles ( 95% CIs ) : 62 ( 47-82 ) , 62 ( 44-86 ) , and 36 ( 24-53 ) ; P < 001 for trend] . No significant association were found between diabetes risk and isocaloric substitutions of carbohydrates with myristic acid ( 14 : 0 ) , palmitic acid ( 16 : 0 ) , or stearic acid ( 18 : 0 ) . Alternations of PUFAs with total SFAs or subtypes of SFAs present similar results . CONCLUSIONS : Isocaloric substituting carbohydrates with lauric acid ( 12 : 0 ) was associated with a lower risk of incident diabetes . Given the strong correlation between lauric acid and diabetes , further research is needed to clarify the association and underlying mechanisms .
Microfluidic arrays have been successfully implemented for the design and development of liposome nanoparticles . In this study we have applied a Quality by Design ( QbD ) approach to investigate the effect of 3D printed Tesla microfluidic designs ( direct and serpentine shape ) on the liposome nanoparticles in comparison with conventional ultrasonication methodology . Critical processing parameters ( CPP ) such as the shape , length and channel width of the Tesla arrays were also studied . Furthermore , the effect of critical material attributes ( CMA ) , including the length of the phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) carbon chain and the lipid : cholesterol ratio on the produced nanoparticles was investigated . The obtained findings revealed that both CPP and CMA play a key role in the formation of liposome nanoparticles . The liposome size was decreasing with a descending order for plain array > Tesla ( ( serpentine ) ) > Tesla ( ( direct ) ) > ultrasonication . However , improved Tesla arrays with narrow channel width ( 200 mum ) produced the smallest liposome particle size ( 74 nm ) . The PC carbon chain length was critical for the obtained particle size where Lipoid S75 produced smaller nanoparticles when compared to Lipoid E The increase of cholesterol content resulted in liposome size reduction and decreased zeta-potential . FAU - Rahali , Kanza
Ferroptosis is a non-apoptotic form of cell death driven by iron-dependent lipid peroxide accumulation . Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) cells feature elevated intracellular iron and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) that heighten ferroptosis sensitivity . The ferroptosis inducer ( S ) -RSL3 ( [1S , 3R]-RSL3 ) is widely described as a selective inhibitor of the selenocysteine-containing enzyme ( selenoprotein ) glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , which detoxifies lipid peroxides utilizing glutathione . However , through chemical controls utilizing the ( R ) stereoisomer of RSL3 ( [1R , 3R]-RSL3 ) that does not bind GPX4 , combined with inducible genetic knockdowns of GPX4 in CRC cell lines , we revealed here that GPX4 dependency does not always align with ( S ) -RSL3 sensitivity , questioning the current characterization of GPX4 as the primary target of ( S ) -RSL Affinity pull-down mass spectrometry with modified ( S ) -RSL3 probes identified multiple selenoprotein targets , indicating broad selenoprotein inhibition . Further investigation of the therapeutic potential of broadly disrupting the selenoproteome as a therapeutic strategy in CRC showed that the selenoprotein inhibitor auranofin , an FDA-approved gold-salt , chemically induced oxidative cell death and ferroptosis in CRC models in vitro and in vivo . Similarly , genetic perturbation of ALKBH8 , a tRNA-selenocysteine methyltransferase required for selenoprotein translation , suppressed CRC growth . In summary , these findings recharacterize the mechanism of ( S ) -RSL3 beyond GPX4 inhibition and establish selenoproteome disruption as a CRC therapeutic strategy . FAU - DeAngelo , Stephen L
Rilpivirine ( RPV ) is a potent antiretroviral drug used for the long-term management of HIV infection . The high crystallinity and very low aqueous solubility of RPV are responsible for the highly variable pharmacokinetics of RPV seen in HIV-infected patients . While fatty meals can increase the absorption of RPV , the low lipid solubility of RPV precludes the development of oral lipid-based formulations such as self-nanoemulsifying systems ( SNES ) . To improve the oral delivery of RPV , we evaluated the potential of six biocompatible bulky anions to transform RPV into amphiphilic RPV ionic liquids with high lipid solubility and only sodium docusate successfully yielded an amphiphilic RPV ionic liquid ( IL ) , RPV docusate ( RPV-Doc ) . Spectroscopic , chromatographic , and thermal characterization techniques confirmed the formation of RPV-Doc as an IL . RPV-Doc showed remarkably higher ( approximately 100-200-fold ) solubility in lipids compared to pure RPV . RPV-Doc was incorporated into two SNES formulations that , depending upon the composition of the SNES formulation , yielded a <100 or <250 nm nanoemulsion irrespective of the pH of the dilution medium . Oral pharmacokinetics and biodistribution studies in mice showed that both SNES formulations containing RPV-Doc yielded rapid and significantly higher oral bioavailability ( approximately 6-fold higher C ( max ) and AUC ) of RPV compared to the RPV suspension . Furthermore , compared to the RPV suspension , both SNES formulations containing RPV-Doc resulted in significantly higher and sustained RPV levels in the HIV sanctuary sites such as mesenteric lymph nodes and the brain . Taken together , our innovative approach can be used to improve the oral bioavailability and tissue penetration of RPV , which can eventually result in a reduction in the pharmacokinetic variability and therapeutic dose of RPV leading to optimal drug utilization . FAU - Sutar , Yogesh
OBJECTIVE : The study evaluated functionalized liposomes as potential carriers for intranasal delivery of levodopa . METHODS : Lipid film hydration method was used to obtain conventional and functionalized liposomes with polyethylene glycol or maleimide-PEG . The liposome structure was analyzed by dynamic light scattering and H-NMR spectroscopy . Isolated sheep nasal mucosa was used for mucoadhesion and mucous penetration studies . Levodopa release was assessed using a Franz diffusion cell . In vivo experiments were conducted using a method based on the inhibition of dopaminergic transmission . RESULTS : The average liposome diameter was 81-91 +/- 1 nm . The Pdi was less than The zeta potential was negative . An increase in the molar weight of polyethylene glycol in the liposome structure improved mucosa penetration to 4 mm . The presence of maleimide did not affect the mucoadhesive properties . The levodopa release profile corresponded to Fickian diffusion . Intranasal administration of levodopa in vivo caused dopaminergic transmission inhibition in rats after 1 hour . CONCLUSION : According to the received results , functionalized liposomes are promising for further evaluation as intranasal drug carriers . FAU - Gordeeva , Daria S
Lipid oxidation can induce liver oxidative stress and lipotoxic damage , while selenium ( Se ) possesses detoxification , antioxidation , immunity , and liver protection functions . However , the effects of Se and oxidized lipids on liver oxidative stress and lipid metabolism , along with the underlying mechanisms , remain underexplored . This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of Se against liver injury induced by oxidized soybean oil ( OSO ) in mice . C57BL/6J mice ( n = 60 ) were randomly divided into Control ( 2 mg/kg Se+7% fresh soybean oil ) , OSO ( 2 mg/kg Se+7% OSO ) , and OSO+Se ( 0 mg/kg Se+7% OSO ) groups for 10 weeks . The results showed that Se supplementation mitigated the morphological structure and functional impairment , inflammation , and oxidative stress of the liver caused by OSO , and improved changes to the liver fatty acid profile and lipid metabolism disorders . It also reversed the OSO-induced imbalance of liver polyunsaturated fatty acid metabolites and inhibited OSO-induced activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway . Se may activate the Nrf2 pathway and inhibit the PI3K-AKT pathway to improve inflammation , oxidative stress , and fatty acid metabolism disorders , thereby reducing liver injury . These findings highlight the nutritional relevance of Se as a potential therapeutic agent for preventing liver damage from oxidized lipids .
Lipid nanoparticles have emerged as critical platforms for bioactive agent delivery , with their success in COVID-19 vaccines highlighting the urgent need to address gaps in understanding their biological interactions . Lyotropic liquid crystalline nanoparticles ( LLCNPs ) represent promising nanocarriers for bioactive agent delivery . In this study , it is revealed for the first time how internal nanostructures of LLCNPs - liposomes , cubosomes , hexosomes , and micellar cubosomes - influence their cellular uptake pathways . By isolating the effects of mesophase while maintaining consistent particle size , charge , and surface coating , it is demonstrated that non-lamellar LLCNPs , particularly cubosomes , significantly enhance cellular uptake via distinct endocytic and non-endocytic mechanisms . These nanoparticles predominantly utilize passive non-endocytic pathways , such as membrane fusion , bypassing endocytic recycling challenges faced by most nanomaterials , including lamellar liposomes . Among active endocytic pathways , macropinocytosis emerges as the dominant route for non-lamellar particles . The findings establish a direct link between LLCNP internal nanostructure and cellular internalization mechanisms , highlighting the critical role of mesophase design in optimizing nanocarrier performance . This knowledge enables the rational engineering of LLCNPs tailored to target specific uptake pathways , facilitating precision delivery for diverse therapeutic applications and addressing key barriers in intracellular drug transport .
BACKGROUND : Medicinal plants form the foundation of healthcare systems and modern medicine , offering powerful therapeutic potential to combat a wide range of chronic metabolic disorders . OBJECTIVE : The present study evaluates the safety of Withania somnifera leaf extracts using rodent modeling for 56 days . It also explores the molecular docking interactions of Withania somnifera ( WS ) leaf phytoconstituents with the dipeptidyl peptidase-4 ( DPP-4 ) receptor . METHODOLOGY : A total of 20 rats were divided into 5 groups ( G0 : Normal diet , G1 : 25% WS leaves Extract , G3 : 5% WS leaves Extract , G4 : 5% WS leaves powder , and G5 : 1% WS leaves powder ) for 56 days . The organ-to-body weight ratio , LFTs , RFTs , and hematological profile were determined in the 4th and 8th weeks . On the other hand , the structures of compounds identified from the methanolic extract of W . somnifera leaves were modified into PDBQT format to perform molecular docking . RESULTS : The results showed that all parameters varied within normal ranges . The hematological parameters were higher in G2 after the 28th day compared to the values after the 56th day . The maximum values of serum glucose and lipid parameters were found in the G3 group as compared to other groups , while hepato-renal markers were high in G Molecular docking revealed the binding affinity of w-02 , w-03 , w-04 , w-05 , and w-07 with DPP-4 receptors ; moreover , w-04 had the highest binding affinity of -4 kcal/mol . CONCLUSION : The 5% leaves extract of W . somnifera revealed positive effect on hematological and biochemical profile of rats without causing any adverse effects . FAU - Khalid , Muhammad Usman
Iron plays a crucial role in various biological processes , including enzyme function , DNA replication , energy production , oxygen transport , lipid , and carbon metabolism . Although it is abundant in the Earth ' s crust , its bioavailability is restricted by the insolubility of ferric iron ( Fe ( + ) ) and the auto-oxidation of ferrous iron ( Fe ( + ) ) in oxygen-rich environments . This limitation poses significant challenges for all organisms , including fungi , which have developed intricate mechanisms for iron acquisition and utilization . These mechanisms include reductive iron uptake , siderophore production/transport , and heme utilization . Fungi employ a variety of enzymes-such as ferric reductases , ferroxidases , permeases , and transporters-to regulate intracellular iron levels effectively . The challenge is heightened for pathogenic fungi during infection , as they must compete with the host ' s iron-binding proteins like transferrin and lactoferrin , which sequester iron to restrict pathogen growth . This review delves into the iron acquisition strategies of medically important fungi , emphasizing the roles of reductive iron uptake and siderophore pathways . Understanding these mechanisms is vital for enhancing our knowledge of fungal pathogenesis and developing effective treatments . By targeting these iron acquisition processes , new antifungal therapies can be formulated more effectively to combat fungal infections . FAU - Takemura , Kathryn
Lipids play fundamental roles in life . In essence , " phospholipase A2 " ( PLA2 ) indicates a group of enzymes that release fatty acids and lysophospholipids by hydrolyzing the sn-2 position of glycerophospholipids . To date , more than 50 enzymes that possess PLA2 or related lipid-metabolizing activities have been identified in mammals and are subdivided into several families in terms of their structures , catalytic mechanisms , tissue/cellular localizations , and evolutionary relationships . Among the PLA2 superfamily , the secreted PLA2 ( sPLA2 ) family contains 11 isoforms in mammals , each of which has unique substrate specificity and tissue/cellular distributions . Recent studies using gene-manipulated ( knockout and/or transgenic ) mice for a full set of sPLA2s have revealed their diverse roles in immunity , metabolism , and other biological events . Application of mass spectrometric lipidomics to these mice has allowed the identification of target substrates and products of individual sPLA2s in tissue microenvironments . In principle , sPLA2s hydrolyze extracellular phospholipids such as those in extracellular vesicles , microbes , lipoproteins , surfactants , and ingested foods , as well as phospholipids in the plasma membrane of activated or damaged cells , thereby exacerbating or ameliorating various diseases . The actions of sPLA2s are dependent on , or independent of , the generation of free fatty acids , lysophospholipids , or their metabolites ( lipid mediators ) according to pathophysiological contexts . In this review , I will make an overview of recent understanding of the unexplored immunoregulatory roles of sPLA2s and their underlying lipid pathways , especially focusing on their unique actions on extracellular vesicles , activated/damaged cells , and gut microbiota .
Numerous kidney functions exhibit substantial circadian oscillations , such as renal blood flow , glomerular filtration rate , tubular reabsorption function , and erythropoietin production . The onset and the injury of acute kidney injury caused by ischemia or drugs also have a circadian rhythmicity . Contrast media are widely used in clinical diagnosis and treatment ; however , whether contrast-induced kidney injury exhibits a time-of-day dependence is unknown . We retrospectively analyzed 33 patients who underwent percutaneous coronary angiography and found that contrast induced the increase of serum neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin ( NGAL ) was more obvious in the group who underwent operation during 6 : 00 ~ 13 : 00 than the group who underwent operation between 13 : 00 ~ 20 : In addition , C57BL/6J mice were injected with iohexol at different times . The kidney injury of mice injected with iohexol at ZT12 was more severe than that at ZT0 , which was manifested in the increase of urinary KIM1 and NGAL , enhanced renal tubular lipid peroxidation , and increased tubular ferroptosis . Inhibition of ferroptosis could alleviate kidney injury induced by iohexol at ZT Mechanistically , we found that nuclear factor erythrocyte 2-associated factor 2 ( NRF2 ) expression has a 24-h circadian rhythm and is directly regulated by CLOCK . Administration of 4-Octyl itaconate at ZT12 to increase NRF2 expression could attenuate iohexol-induced tubular ferroptosis . These findings provide a new insight into the pathology of contrast medium-induced kidney injury , in which oscillatory NRF2 expression regulated by CLOCK contributes to the susceptibility of contrast-induced kidney injury in a time-of-day-specific fashion .
BACKGROUND : Gastrointestinal malignancies are a major public health concern worldwide , characterized by high incidence and mortality rates . Despite continuous advancements in existing treatment methods , overall survival rates remain low . Lipid metabolism plays a crucial role in the occurrence , progression , and treatment of gastrointestinal malignancies . Its involvement in the metabolic reprogramming of tumor cells , regulation of the tumor microenvironment , and drug response has become a research hotspot . MATERIALS & METHODS : This review summarizes current research related to lipid metabolism mechanisms , biomarkers , and therapies in GI cancers , with emphasis on its interaction with the tumor microenvironment .
This study investigates the causal relationship between Asialoglycoprotein receptor 1 ( ASGR1 ) inhibitors , inflammation , and heart failure ( HF ) . Leveraging data from the Global Lipids Genetics Consortium and the UK Biobank , we identified instrumental variables for ASGR1 and validated these genetic instruments using coronary heart disease ( CHD ) patients as positive controls . We employed Instrumental variable weighted ( IVW ) and Summary-data-based Mendelian Randomization ( SMR ) methods to assess the association of ASGR1 with HF and its associated risk factors , comparing efficacy with PCSK9 and LDLR . Mediation analysis of inflammatory biomarkers was conducted using a two-step Mendelian randomization approach , with sensitivity analyses performed using conventional MR methods . IVW analysis demonstrates a significant positive correlation between ASGR1 expression and HF , myocardial infarction , non-ischemic cardiomyopathy , and calcific aortic valvular stenosis . Patients with HF comorbid with CHD showed an increased likelihood of benefit . ASGR1 exhibited a stronger effect on HF compared to PCSK Similar conclusions were drawn from SMR analysis . Additionally , LDLR shows no causal relationship with HF but appears negatively correlated with non-ischemic cardiomyopathy . Among the 91 inflammatory proteins studied , Leukemia inhibitory factor receptor ( LIF-R ) and Urokinase-type plasminogen activator ( uPA ) were found to mediate the effects of ASGR1 on HF . Sensitivity analyses indicate no evidence of pleiotropy in reported results . This study supports a causal association between ASGR1 inhibitors and HF , providing genetic evidence for the anti-inflammatory role of ASGR1 inhibitors in reducing HF risk . LIF-R and uPA , identified as potential mediators , introduce a novel therapeutic pathway for HF management .
BACKGROUND : Two major types of cell division occur in eukaryotic cells regarding the dismantlement or not of the nuclear envelope ( NE ) in mitosis , open and closed mitosis , respectively . In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae , the prototypical model for closed mitosis , the Nem1-Spo7 phosphatase complex , which regulates lipid metabolism , plays a key role in coordinating NE expansion throughout the cell cycle . Indeed , Nem1 depletion leads to abnormal NE evaginations in interphase , which protrude the ribosomal DNA ( rDNA ) and the nucleolus . However , the specific impact of these NE and chromosome organization abnormalities during chromosome segregation in anaphase remains poorly understood . RESULTS : Our study investigated chromosome segregation and NE dynamics during closed mitosis in relation to the presence or absence of Nem Nem1 was depleted by means of the auxin degron system . Nem1 depletion led to the formation of chromatin protrusions in interphase , particularly at the rDNA locus , as it has been reported before for nem1 mutants . These protrusions persisted into anaphase and were associated with delayed recoiling of the rDNA-bearing chromosome XII right arm , resulting in lagging chromatin during late anaphase . Additionally , cells can maintain nucleus-vacuole junctions ( NVJs ) during anaphase , suggesting that vacuoles may play a role in shaping NE morphology during chromosome segregation . CONCLUSION : Our findings suggest that the Nem1-Spo7/lipin regulation of the NE size is crucial for the timely segregation of the rDNA-bearing chromosome during closed mitosis . Thus , the NE homeostasis actively contributes to chromosome segregation and the spatial organization of chromosomes in subsequent cell cycles . In addition , the persistent association between the NE and vacuoles in anaphase further underscores how cumbersome organelle interactions can become during closed mitosis , opening inspiring research avenues .
OBJECTIVE : To determine the molecular characteristics and mechanisms of colistin-resistant ( COLr ) Salmonella isolates from 1224 chicken samples in Shanghai , China , between January 2021 and January METHODS : Antimicrobial susceptibility testing , site-directed mutagenesis , RT-qPCR , and lipid A analysis was conducted to investigate the mechanisms of colistin resistance in Salmonella . RESULTS : A total of 268 Salmonella isolates were obtained from chicken samples and 41 isolates were resistant to colistin . The uncommon extensively antimicrobial-resistant Salmonella Muenster was the predominant serotype , accounting for 8% ( 36/41 ) of the COLr isolates . Most ( 1% , 39/41 ) of the COLr isolates exhibited amino acid substitutions in the PmrAB . Ten different substitutions in PmrAB were identified , with Val161Gly ( n = 14 ) and Gly206Glu ( n = 10 ) in PmrB being the most prevalent . Four substitutions ( Thr147Ser , Phe203Ser , Gly206Glu , and Asp250Tyr ) in PmrB have not been reported before and were considered novel mutations . Additionally , it was demonstrated that these substitutions upregulated pmrE and pmrK expression , resulting in the production of L-Ara4N , which modified the lipid A and resulted in an 8-64-fold increase in the colistin MIC ( 2-8 mg/L ) . Finally , the deletion of pmrE or pmrK in mutants showed MIC values comparable to parental strains ( 25 mg/L ) , which suggested that colistin resistance may be conferred through the pmrE and pmrK pathways . CONCLUSIONS : These findings illustrate the complex molecular mechanisms of colistin resistance in Salmonella , and the amino acid substitutions in PmrAB are the predominant molecular mechanisms . It is essential to implement monitoring and control measures for colistin resistance .
In March 2023 , the EPA proposed a 0 ppt maximum contaminant level ( MCL ) for perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) and perfluorooctane sulfonate ( PFOS ) ( each ) and a hazard index approach for four other PFAS . The EPA sought public feedback on the proposed MCL in early 2023 and received 1626 comment submissions via the PFAS docket website ( Docket ID : EPA-HQ-OW-2022-0114 ) . Final MCLs were promulgated on April 10 , Our analysis of the PFAS docket identified 128 comments that had a reasonable degree of scientific merit , with 57 comments endorsing the regulations and 71 questioning the MCLs public health utility . Critics noted the lack of evidence for adverse health effects at low PFAS exposures , the rule ' s significant impact on the economy , and the EPA ' s selection of published papers which the Agency chose to support their views . Many well-substantiated comments highlighted that few , if any , adverse health effects were reported at doses as much as 100-1000 times above those associated with the proposed drinking water guidelines . We found that the comments which discussed the evidence linking PFAS exposures below 200 ppt in drinking water to adverse health effects were equivocal . Most of the well-documented science based comments indicated that the data did not justify setting a 0 ppt MCL . It was noted that the EPA MCL was quite different from drinking water standards in other countries ( up to 8-140 fold lower ) . During the review , it became apparent that a 0 ppt MCL may have little effect on PFAS blood concentrations in most Americans since drinking water accounts for less than 20% of their total PFAS intake . Additionally , a significant portion of the American population consumes minimal amounts of tap water . Commenters noted that the financial burden for treatment and cleanup was much higher than what was reported in the justification for the final MCL which was submitted to the Office of Management and Budget ( OMB ) and eventually promulgated . It is possible that EPA underestimated the financial impact on the nation by up to 100 to 200-fold . Our analysis indicates that many , if not most , of the scientifically rigorous comments on the EPA ' s proposed MCL were not acknowledged or considered by the Agency . We conclude the article by offering sixteen recommendations for the EPA to consider if Congress or the courts choose to reopen the evaluation of these MCLs . These included convening an international expert panel , reevaluating the appropriateness of the LNT model for PFAS , ensuring adequate time for study quality assessment and cost-benefit analysis , considering an approach to implementing a series of MCLs , critically reevaluating scientific studies , adhering to EPA risk assessment guidelines , addressing SDWA compliance concerns , revisiting the Hazard Index approach , and ensuring thorough and transparent review of public comments . FAU - Hua , My
This paper examines widely held beliefs about the six per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFAS ) addressed in the final U . S . Environmental Protection Agency ' s ( EPA ) rule on PFAS in drinking water ( e . g . , the Maximum Contaminant Levels - MCLs ) . Based on our understanding of the scientific literature and the comments submitted by stakeholders regarding the EPA ' s regulation that was promulgated in April 2024 , we identified 15 misconceptions that had a weak scientific foundation . These are now memoralized in the MCLs for the six PFAS but remain debated due to ongoing ambiguous research findings . Many critics of the MCLs found the EPA ' s systematic review of the published relevant information , particularly the toxicology of perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) and perfluorooctane sulfonate ( PFOS ) , to be inadequate . The following seven views are among the most important . First , the EPA asserted that the toxicology of these six chemicals was poorly understood and lacked sufficient data to determine a safe daily intake level for chronic health effects ; nonetheless , they promulgated what may be the costliest environmental regulation to date . Notably , adverse effects remain difficult to demonstrate in occupationally exposed individuals even at blood concentrations 50-100 times higher than current background PFAS levels . Second , the Agency indicated that the epidemiology data showed that exposure to PFOA and PFOS caused kidney and potentially other cancers , yet the data were equivocal and do not support that assertion . Third , it was stated that specific non-cancer effects , such as heart disease , would be prevented under the promulgated rule ; however , the studies that they relied upon do not show an increased incidence of heart disease even in highly exposed populations . Fourth , the Agency relied on animal data to support its views on the likely toxic effects in humans , despite ample toxicology data that animals , particularly rodents , are poor predictors of the human response to PFAS exposures . Fifth , the EPA predicted a reduction in healthcare expenditures that would offset much of the cost of complying with the MCL , but , they did not have adequate data to support this prediction . Sixth , the EPA suggested that these six PFAS act through a shared mechanism of action ( i . e . , PPARalpha pathway induction ) ; however , data indicate that PPARalpha induction in humans may be 80% less than what is observed in rodents . Also , induction of the PPARalpha pathway is not a cause of systemic disease . Seventh , the Agency failed to disclose that achieving the new MCL would yield negligible reductions in blood PFAS levels even among highly exposed populations , given drinking water accounts for only 20% or less of total PFAS exposure . The survey that could answer that question , the EPA ' s fifth Unregulated Contaminant Monitoring Rule , was only 25% complete at the time the MCL was promulgated . Overall , our analysis concluded that while the EPA ' s intent to regulate these chemicals due to their environmental presence was necessary , the derivation of the MCLs and the alleged health effects was based on the application of the precautionary principle rather than robust scientific evidence . FAU - Paustenbach , Dennis
A recent microfluidic-based small-angle X-ray scattering ( SAXS ) measurement intriguingly suggested the transient formation of multilamellar structures during the mixing of unilamellar vesicles with ethanol in an aqueous solution . This study explores a possible molecular mechanism underlying this phenomenon , primarily through coarse-grained molecular dynamics ( CG-MD ) simulations . We first examined lipid aggregate morphology as a function of ethanol concentration in an aqueous solution . Even though vesicles were observed in pure aqueous solution , increasing ethanol concentrations led to more frequent pore formation in vesicular membranes . At ethanol concentrations above 52% , vesicles destabilized and transformed into worm-like micelles . We hypothesized that the transient multilamellar structures might arise from vesicle stacking due to variations in the effective interactions between vesicles . However , a series of potential of mean force ( PMF ) calculations consistently showed repulsive interactions between vesicles , regardless of ethanol concentration , ruling out this possibility . In contrast , once lipid aggregates transformed into worm-like micelles , the PMF barrier between them dropped ( approximately 5k ( B ) T ) , promoting fusion . Our CG-MD simulations further demonstrated that lipid aggregates ( micelles ) readily fused and grew in high ethanol concentrations . Upon subsequent exposure to lower ethanol levels , these enlarged aggregates reorganized into vesicles with internal lamellar structure horizontal line multilamellar vesicles . These findings suggest that the heterogeneous mixing of unilamellar vesicular solutions with ethanol in a microfluidic device plays a key role in the emergence of transient multilamellar structures . FAU - Shibata , Kana
Lipid storage and epigenetic dysregulation are key features for clear cell renal carcinoma ( ccRCC ) . However , the interplay between fatty acid metabolism and epigenetics in ccRCC remains to be further demonstrated . Here , the landscape of active enhancers is profiled in paired ccRCC samples and identifies 10171 gain variant enhancer loci ( VELs ) in the tumor tissues . Experimental validation reveals the enhancers targeting FABP5 , FABP6 , LPCAT1 , MET , SEMA5B , SH3GL1 , SNX33 , and RHBDF2 are oncogenic . Further studies in organoids and animal models prove FABP5 as an oncogene . HIF-2alpha and ZNF692 transcription factors regulate FABP5 expression through directly binding to its promoter and enhancer . FABP5 is essential for the lipid droplet formation driven by HIFs and critical for H3K27ac and enhancer activity in ccRCC cells . Thus , the study has identified potential targets for drug design and diagnosis and discovered the function of a feedback loop between epigenetics and lipid metabolism regulated by FABP5 in ccRCC .
Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is a complex and dynamic pathological condition characterized by disrupted lipid metabolism and neuroinflammatory responses , posing significant therapeutic challenges . To address these , biomimetic bacterial outer membrane nanoparticles ( BM-NPs ) are designed by integrating the precise targeting capability of detoxified outer membrane vesicles ( dOMVs ) with the efficient drug-loading properties of liposomes . BM-NPs exhibit superior targeting efficiency toward peripheral neutrophils and macrophages , enabling spatiotemporal drug delivery via immune cells . An innovative " Tortoise and Hare " dynamic adaptive delivery strategy is introduced , where neutrophils facilitate rapid drug transport during the acute phase of SCI , while macrophages ensure sustained delivery during the subacute phase . This strategy aligns with the dynamic pathological progression of SCI , offering precision targeting tailored to different stages of injury . BM-NPs demonstrate multifaceted therapeutic effects , including the suppression of foam cell formation through coordinated enhancement of lipid droplet autophagy and cholesterol efflux . Furthermore , they modulate the inflammatory microenvironment , preserve myelin integrity , and significantly promote neural functional recovery post-SCI . By overcoming the limitations of conventional delivery systems in targeting and timeliness , BM-NPs offer an innovative , highly efficient , and clinically translatable platform for SCI treatment and other acute inflammatory disorders of the central nervous system .
A proper body condition determines the correct functioning of physiological processes and the optimal expression of fitness-related traits . Among these processes , maintaining the redox balance is essential to protect the organism from damage caused by oxidative stress . Yet , the causal link between an impaired body condition and a consequent increase in oxidative stress remains surprisingly far from clear . We experimentally tested such link by imposing a dietary restriction ( DR ) , that is , decreased food availability , to nonreproductive adult red-legged partridges ( Alectoris rufa ) and measuring a battery of oxidative stress biomarkers . Levels of oxidative status ( ratio of reduced to oxidized glutathione [GSH : GSSG] in erythrocytes ) , oxidative damage in plasma lipids ( MDA ) , and plasma antioxidant capacity ( OXY and TEAC assays ) were quantified before the DR , twice during the DR , and once after the end of the DR . The GSH : GSSG ratio remained steady throughout the experiment . By contrast , after 19 days under DR , individuals showed an increase in MDA levels and an altered antioxidant capacity ( a reduction in OXY and an increase in TEAC ) with respect to controls , showing that the worsening of body condition indeed leads to an increase of the oxidative stress . However , these effects were transitory , appearing only by 19 days under DR and disappearing afterwards . These findings suggest that , despite the temporary increase in oxidative damage , individuals adapt their oxidative physiology to overcome resource restriction , possibly by reallocating resources from other physiological processes . This highlights the importance of considering dynamic changes when evaluating the impact of stressful conditions .
BACKGROUND : Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ( HoFH ) is a genetic disease characterized by high levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) present from birth , leading to early-onset and progressive atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease . Early treatment initiation is crucial for cardiovascular risk reduction ; however , many patients do not reach LDL-C treatment goals . Inclisiran , a small interfering RNA targeting hepatic PCSK9 ( proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ) , is effective and well tolerated in adult patients with hyperlipidemia ; however , it has not yet been studied in pediatric patients . METHODS : Herein we report results of the 1-year , double-blind , placebo-controlled part of the phase 3 study ORION-13 ( Study to Evaluate Efficacy and Safety of Inclisiran in Adolescents With Homozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia ) in adolescents with HoFH . This 2-part multicenter study included 13 patients >/=12 to <18 years of age with a genetic diagnosis of HoFH ( excluding LDL [low-density lipoprotein] receptor [LDLR] null/null genotypes ) and elevated LDL-C levels ( >130 mg/dL ) on maximally tolerated statin treatment , with or without other lipid-lowering therapies . Eligible patients were randomized 2 : 1 to receive either 300 mg of inclisiran sodium or placebo , administered on days 1 , 90 , and The primary end point was the mean percentage change in LDL-C from baseline to day RESULTS : The mean age of patients was 8 years , and mean baseline LDL-C was 272 mg/dL . The placebo-adjusted mean ( 95% CI ) percentage change in LDL-C from baseline to day 330 was -3% ( -2% to -3% ) . Six of 9 ( 7% ) inclisiran-treated patients ( versus 1 of 4 [25%] on placebo ) achieved a >15% reduction in LDL-C , and 5 of 9 ( 6% ) inclisiran-treated patients ( versus none on placebo ) achieved a >20% reduction . The placebo-adjusted mean ( 95% CI ) percentage change in PCSK9 from baseline to day 330 was -2% ( -8% to -7% ) ; corresponding changes in apoB ( apolipoprotein B ) , non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and total cholesterol were -0% , -7% , and -8% , respectively . No serious adverse events , treatment discontinuations because of adverse events , or deaths occurred . No new safety findings were reported . CONCLUSIONS : In a 1-year randomized controlled study ( part 1 of ORION-13 ) , inclisiran was effective in lowering LDL-C in adolescents with HoFH and was well tolerated . These results support inclisiran as a potentially useful addition for the treatment of adolescents with HoFH and a minimum of LDLR residual activity . REGISTRATION : URL : https : //www . clinicaltrials . gov ; Unique identifier : NCT FAU - Wiegman , Albert
To accurately predict the effect of a drug and enhance its potency , it is essential to examine not only the arrival of the carrier and its payload at the target cell but also the final destination of the subcellular organelle because a considerable number of diseases are associated with the malfunctioning of cellular organelles . Here , we present nanoparticle ( NP ) microscopy via signal amplification of DNA barcodes combined with the multiplexed cyclic immunofluorescence technique for quantifying multiple NP types simultaneously . This technique enhanced the fluorescence signal-to-noise by 15-fold compared to standard fluorescence in situ hybridization , thereby providing a more precise means of analyzing the intra- and interdistribution of three core-shell NPs ( G0-P5 , 7C1-F5 , and C12-D ) in vitro and in vivo . The in vitro results demonstrated that in macrophages , nucleic acids condensed with G0-C14 cationic lipids were often located in lysosomes , whereas in tumor cells , nucleic acids were mainly located in mitochondria , regardless of the type of cationic lipid . Together , the in vivo results reveal that nucleic acids condensed with G0-C14 cationic lipids demonstrated the greatest uptake by CD206+ immune cells , whereas nucleic acids condensed with 7C1 and C12-200 cationic lipids exhibited the highest level of uptake by CD206+CD11c+Arg1+ immune cells . FAU - Oh , Nuri
Health effects associated with microbial metabolites are influenced by dietary compounds and other environmental factors . Polyphenols derived from plant-based foods reach the large intestine mostly undigested , where they can interact with the gut microbiota . This explorative study investigated the metabolic responses of gut microbiota to the polyphenols rutin and genistein . Ex vivo anaerobic incubations with pooled fecal samples from volunteers with a BMI <25 ( n = 7 ) and a BMI >40 ( n = 7 ) were analyzed by ESI DI-FT-ICR-MS . Differences in metabolic diversity were observed between the two BMI groups , with the obese group showing a less diverse metabolic response . Metabolomic profiling identified 361 metabolites in 35 substance classes , with notable effects of the polyphenols on amino acid , carbohydrate , nucleotide , and lipid metabolism . Both BMI groups showed increased levels of dipeptides and amino acids and decreased levels of biogenic amines . Among the key findings , glutamine levels increased , which has been associated with obesity-related metabolic processes , while tryptophan levels were also elevated , a factor previously associated with obesity-related pathways . Glycine levels increased in both groups . Additionally , histamine , cadaverine , putrescine , and trimethylamine were reduced after exposure to the polyphenols . Changes in metabolites related to carbohydrate metabolism suggest an influence of rutin and genistein on sugar transport and cell wall synthesis . Furthermore , in the obese group , rutin exposure was associated with increased butyrate levels and decreased lactate levels . These findings contribute to a better understanding of how rutin and genistein interact with the gut microbiota metabolome , with potential implications for metabolic health and obesity-related research .
This study investigates the effect of various minor components ( MCs ) on the oxidation kinetics and molecular self-assembly in stripped canola oil during thermal and photo oxidation processes using experimental and simulation tools . The peroxide value ( PV ) and fatty acid content were measured to evaluate the formation of oxidation products and the consumption rate of unsaturated fatty acids . In the thermal oxidation experiment , adding MCs slightly increased the oxidation rate , while in the photo oxidation experiment , stearic acid ( SA ) and glycerol monostearate ( GMS ) significantly decreased it . GMS demonstrated a pronounced ability to self-assemble and form molecular organizations during photo oxidation , resulting in lower critical micelle concentration ( CMC ) values of lipid hydroperoxides ( LOOHs ) and reduced oxidation rates . These GMS self-assemblies seem to scatter light , thus decreasing absorbed energy during photo oxidation , leading to lower oxidation rates . SA exhibited the highest surface activity , effectively lowering the LOOH CMC and facilitating the formation of stable reverse micelles at lower concentrations . Interestingly , the addition of MCs did not influence the tendency of LOOHs to form hydrogen bonds with water , suggesting that the lower CMC resulted from the formation of mutual reverse micelles of MCs and LOOHs . Meso-phase formation was observed at very high PVs , indicating a high concentration of secondary oxidation products , which also possess surface activity . These findings underscore the importance of molecular interactions in oxidation stability , providing insights for improving edible oil preservation .
OBJECTIVE : Puerarin injection is used for the treatment of chronic heart failure ( CHF ) . The objective of this study is to investigate the efficacy and safety of puerarin injection as an adjunct therapy for CHF through a meta-analysis and systematic review . METHODS : We conducted a comprehensive literature search across eight databases , including PubMed , Embase , Web of Science , and Cochrane Library , up to 1 March 2025 , to identify the required randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) . Subsequently , we assessed the included studies according to the principles outlined in the Cochrane Handbook and performed a meta-analysis using RevMan 4 and Stata RESULTS : A total of 29 RCTs were included , comprising 2 , 480 patients , with 1 , 251 in the Puerarin group and 1 , 229 in the control group . The meta-analysis demonstrated that puerarin injection combined with conventional medication significantly improved cardiac function parameters in chronic heart failure patients compared to pharmacotherapy alone , including left ventricular ejection fraction ( MD = 22 , 95% CI [11 , 33] , P < 01 ) , cardiac output ( MD = 45 , 95% CI [35 , 55] , P < 01 ) , and stroke volume ( MD = 29 , 95% CI [02 , 57] , P < 01 ) , while reducing left ventricular end-diastolic diameter ( MD = -83 , 95% CI [-24 , -42] , P < 01 ) . The combination therapy demonstrated both a significantly increased total effectiveness rate ( RR = 26 , 95% CI [21 , 31] , P < 01 ) and improved hemodynamic parameters , along with favorable modulation of oxidative stress markers evidenced by elevated superoxide dismutase , glutathione peroxidase , and catalase levels concomitant with reduced lipid peroxidation and malondialdehyde concentrations . CONCLUSION : This meta-analysis suggests that adjunctive puerarin injection with conventional therapy may provide comprehensive benefits for chronic heart failure management , including improved clinical outcomes , enhanced cardiac function , attenuated ventricular remodeling , optimized hemodynamic performance , and reduced oxidative stress , while maintaining a safety profile comparable to conventional therapy . However , due to the suboptimal quality and some degree of heterogeneity in the existing evidence , there is a need for more high-quality studies to provide more reliable evidence for its future clinical application . SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION : https : //www . crd . york . ac . uk/PROSPERO/ , identifier CRD
INTRODUCTION : Acute lung injury ( ALI ) seriously threatens human health and is induced by multiple factors . When ALI occurs , lung lesions affect gas exchange and may trigger respiratory failure . Current clinical treatments are limited , and traditional drug delivery has drawbacks . Berberine , a natural drug with anti-inflammatory effects , has difficulty in effectively exerting its efficacy . METHODS : The study designed a nano-micelle . Hydrophobic berberine was encapsulated with diselenide bonds as the linker . Then , lung epithelial cell membranes were extracted to encapsulate and disguise the nano-micelle . These nanoparticles were injected intravenously . Thanks to the cell membrane ' s specificity , they could bind to lung tissue , achieving targeted lung delivery . In the inflamed area of acute lung injury , the significantly increased reactive oxygen species level was used to break the diselenide bonds , enabling precise berberine release at the lung injury site . RESULTS : The nano-drug ( MM-NPs ) was successfully prepared , with the encapsulation efficiency of berberine in the micelles reaching 2% . In a ROS environment , the nano-micelles could quickly release over 80% of berberine . In inflammatory MLE-12 cells , MM-NPs responded well to ROS , and cellular inflammatory factor levels were significantly improved after treatment . In a lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced pneumonia mouse model , MM-NPs achieved lung targeting . Further studies showed that MM-NPs administration significantly alleviated LPS-induced lung injury in mice . Additionally , evaluation indicated MM-NPs had good in-vivo safety with no obvious adverse reactions . CONCLUSION : This study successfully developed a novel delivery system , MM-NPs , overcoming berberine ' s low bioavailability problem in treating acute lung injury . The system has excellent physicochemical properties , biocompatibility , and metabolic safety . In vitro and animal experiments verified it can significantly enhance the therapeutic effect , offering new ideas and hopes for acute lung injury treatment . In the future , clinical trials can be advanced , and new lung targeting strategies explored for more therapeutic breakthroughs .
BACKGROUND : Anti-sulfatide antibodies are autoantibodies that are associated with various neurological disorders . They have been identified in several conditions including Guillain-Barre syndrome , multiple sclerosis , and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy . Subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord is mainly caused by vitamin B12 deficiency . Chronic atrophic gastritis is a complex condition characterized by atrophy and inflammation of the gastric mucosa . To date , there have been no reported cases of patients with subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord co-occurring with chronic atrophic gastritis and positive anti-sulfatide antibodies . CASE PRESENTATION : A 58-year-old male patient presented with symmetrical progressive numbness of his limbs . Although he did not experience gait instability , he had difficulty performing fine motor tasks in his upper limbs . We reviewed the patient ' s medical history and analyzed the results of his blood tests , imaging studies , and gastroscopic . The patient met the criteria for subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord , chronic atrophic gastritis , macrocytic anemia , and anti-sulfatide antibody positivity . His symptoms improved after treatment . CONCLUSION : This is the first report on the coexistence of positive anti-sulfatide antibodies and subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord , including chronic atrophic gastritis and macrocytic anemia , which will enhance our understanding of the relationships between these conditions .
Understanding the role of microbiota in supporting animal survival and activity under extreme environmental conditions provides valuable insights into adaptation and resilience mechanisms in ecosystems . While vertebrate microbiota have received considerable attention , those associated with arthropods , particularly species capable of surviving sub-zero temperatures , remain poorly understood . Springtails ( Collembola ) , key contributors to litter decomposition and soil ecosystem functioning , require specialized adaptations to endure harsh winter conditions . Using the alpha- and beta-niche trait concept and phylogenetic comparative approaches , we investigated the microbiota of 10 coexisting springtail species with different overwintering strategies . Our results revealed that certain bacterial genera , including Marmoricola , Mycobacterium , Rhodococcus , and Vibrionimonas , exhibited phylogenetic signal , suggesting evolutionary constraints on their potential roles in hosts . Winter-active springtail species harbored higher bacterial diversity and distinct microbial community compositions compared to inactive species , with enrichment in bacteria such as Wolbachia , Morganellaceae , and Micrococcaceae . Additionally , winter-active species exhibited higher energy metabolism and lower lipid metabolism , alongside more frequent positive interactions within bacterial networks . These findings suggest that microbiota may play a functional role in supporting the metabolic demands of winter-active springtails , potentially contributing to their adaptation to cold environments . Overall , our study highlights the role of microbiota in shaping ecological success and adaptation of arthropods to extreme conditions , providing new perspectives for soil animal research by integrating microbial functional traits with the evolutionary context of microbe-host interactions .
Traditional Chinese Medicine ( TCM ) has recently emerged as a beacon for the treatment of diabetes and its complications . Many TCMs that are commonly used , have the potentially demonstrated significant anti-diabetic effects . The mechanisms of these effects have been extensively discussed using modern techniques , such as genomics , mass spectrometry , and network pharmacology . Studies have demonstrated that TCM can influence glucose metabolism and pancreatic function via a diverse array of mechanisms including PI3K/AKT and AMPK pathways . TCM not only exhibits potential in the treatment of diabetes but also reduces the risk of diabetic complications . It is effective in the treatment of diabetic nephropathy ( DN ) , diabetic retinopathy ( DR ) , diabetic neuropathy ( DPN ) , diabetic cardiomyopathy , and peripheral angiopathy . Research has demonstrated that prescriptions , Chinese herbal medicines , and their extracts play a role in a variety of molecular mechanisms such as antioxidation , apoptosis regulation , hypoxia improvement , autophagy , and promotion of glucose and lipid metabolism . The antioxidant properties of TCM have received considerable attention . Recent studies have demonstrated that they are capable of effectively eliminating free radicals from the body and reducing damage to cells caused by oxidative stress . Consequently , they are crucial in the treatment of diabetes and its associated complications . This review summarizes the ever-expanding scope of TCM applicability in the field of diabetes , providing crucial support and innovative ideas for modern healthcare . TCMs could help seek more effective pharmacological targets in basic study and as well serve as the complement to the strategy of diabetic prevention and treatment benefiting the patients . More and more large series of RCT and clinical investigations will eventually examine the efficacy of specific TCM formulas on the therapeutic effect of DM and its complication where currently treatments could not be satisfied .
Non-tuberculous mycobacteria infections , including Mycobacterium avium , are increasingly recognized as a growing public health concern , even among immunocompetent individuals . These infections are a significant cause of chronic pulmonary disease , and they are characterized by the formation of foamy macrophages ( FMs ) that facilitate bacterial persistence . Previously , we reported that apoptosis inhibitor of macrophage ( AIM ) , a protein secreted by macrophages , promotes lipid droplet accumulation in M . avium-infected macrophages . However , the precise role of AIM in modulating immune responses remains unclear . This study aimed to elucidate the effect of AIM on FM formation , bacterial burden , and immune response in M . avium-infected mice by comparing AIM knockout ( KO ) mice with wild-type mice . Histological analysis revealed a reduction in FM formation in AIM KO mice , accompanied by decreased lipid droplet accumulation and altered expression of lipid metabolism-related genes . Furthermore , AIM KO mice exhibited a reduced bacterial load in the lungs , highlighting decreased cytokine production , including IL-1beta , compared to wild-type mice . In addition , the analysis of the immune cells of AIM KO mice using flow cytometry revealed an increase in M1 macrophages and IFN-gamma-producing T cells , as well as a decrease in M2 macrophages and interleukin 10 ( IL-10 ) -producing T cells . The reduced expression of CD36 and PD-L1 in macrophages from AIM KO mice further supports the skewing toward an M1 phenotype . In vitro experiments with bone marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDMs ) confirmed reduced bacterial growth and lipid droplet formation in AIM KO BMDMs , which was restored by AIM and IL-10 treatment . These findings suggest that AIM contributes to the promotion of FM formation by establishing an immunosuppressive environment that promotes the establishment of M . avium through IL-10 production .
OBJECTIVE : Exercise interventions are a recommended method of diabetes management through which patients can achieve blood glucose control , increase muscle volume , and improve insulin sensitivity , while also improving blood lipids , blood pressure , and cardiovascular health . A few studies on the effects of physical exercise on diabetic patients have been published in recent years . This article focuses on exploring evidence on which exercise interventions generate which effects in diabetic patients , namely , high-intensity interval training ( HIIT ) , method training ( MT ) , aerobic exercise training ( AET ) , resistance training ( RT ) , and combined training ( CBT ) . METHODS : Randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) that focused on the effects of exercise interventions on blood glucose and blood lipids of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus were reviewed . A network meta-analysis was performed to compare the effects of the five exercise interventions in diabetic patients , namely the impacts on glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) , fasting blood glucose ( FBG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , and low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) . The study was strictly conducted following the PRISMA Protocol , and the Cochrane Risk of Bias Assessment Tool 0 was used to objectively evaluate the risk of bias in the implementation of the study . RESULTS : This review included 25 RCTs in total , with 1 , 711 subjects . Meta-analysis suggests that , compared with conventional therapeutic treatment , exercise interventions can reduce blood glucose indexes , namely HbA1c , FBG , TC , TG , HDL , and LDL . RT and AET have been shown to reduce TC ; HIIT , MT , AET , and CBT have been shown to improve HDL ; and HIIT , MT , AET , and CBT have been shown to improve HDL . The MT and RT exercise types can reduce LDL . Evidence also suggests that MT can lower HbA1c , TG , and LDL levels , and RT lowers cholesterol levels . HIIT exercise appears to improve FBG and HDL levels . CONCLUSION : The five types of exercise generate different effects on the key clinical dimensions of diabetes . MT seems to be the optimal choice to improve HbA1c , TG levels , and LDL , while HIIT improves FBG and HDL levels , whereas RT exercise appears to be the optimal exercise to lower cholesterol levels .
AIMS : Asprosin is a newly discovered adipokine , it is associated with the insulin resistance , lipid metabolism disorder , diabetes and obesity . However , there have been no reports on the relationship between asprosin and type 2 diabetic patients with obesity . This study aims to investigate the relationship between serum asprosin and type 2 diabetic patients with obesity in the community . MATERIALS AND METHODS : A total of 491 patients with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ( T2DM ) were recruited from Zhuoma Community Care Station and Chengbei West Street Community Care Service Center in Changzhi City of Shanxi Province from November 2019 to July Patients were divided into the Normal group ( n= 145 ) , Overweight group ( n=201 ) and Obesity group ( n= 145 ) . The t-test , Mann-Whitney U test , and chi test were used to compare indicators between the Normal group , Overweight group and Obesity group . Pearson or Spearman correlation analysis was adopted to evaluate the correlation between serum asprosin and other clinical data . Multivariate logistic regression analysis was applied to analyze the influencing factors on obesity . In addition , the diagnostic ability of asprosin to detect type 2 diabetic patients with obesity was tested using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis . RESULTS : Compared with patients with normal weight , the circulating level of asprosin was significantly higher in the obese group than in the normal weight and overweight group ( P <05 ) . Asprosin was positively correlated with Systolic Blood Pressure ( SBP ) , Body Mass Index ( BMI ) , Waistline , serum uric acid ( SUA ) , aspartate transaminase ( AST ) , creatinine ( CRE ) , and negatively correlated with alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) . In addition , serum asprosin was significantly correlated with BMI even after adjusting for age , sex , SBP and ALT , SUA , glycosylated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , triglycerides ( TG ) and glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) ( ( P < 05 ) . Compared with the patients in the lowest tertile of serum asprosin ( <7 pg/mL ) , patients with asprosin between 7-0 pg/mL [OR ( 95% CI ) is 774 ( 978-218 ) , P < 05] and asprosin >314 pg/mL [OR ( 95% CI ) is 406 ( 788-758 ) , P < 05] have a higher risk of obesity . CONCLUSIONS : Serum asprosin was correlated with obesity in community-based type 2 diabetic patients with obesity . Additionally , the risk of obesity was obviously increased with the raise of asprosin . Therefore , we speculate that serum asprosin could be used as a risk predictor of type 2 diabetic patients with obesity .
The gut microbiome plays a critical role in cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) pathogenesis through systemic inflammation , disrupted lipid metabolism , and proatherogenic metabolites like trimethylamine-N-oxide ( TMAO ) . Dysbiosis contributes to increased intestinal permeability , platelet hyperreactivity , and reduced short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , exacerbating cardiovascular risk . Emerging microbiome-targeted therapies , including probiotics , prebiotics , fecal microbiota transplantation ( FMT ) , and dietary interventions , show promise in mitigating CVD . However , challenges remain in translating these findings into clinical practice due to strain-specific effects and interindividual variability . The gut-heart axis represents a transformative avenue for CVD prevention and management , warranting further research to optimize long-term efficacy and safety .
BACKGROUND : Vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) regulates insulin sensitivity , lipid metabolism and hormone balance in women . There are contrasting opinions on influence of VDR gene polymorphism for PCOS predisposition . Therefore , the present study investigated associations between VDR polymorphism ( FOK1 and APA1 ) and PCOS phenotype as well as related biochemical and clinical parameters . METHODS : A total 240 female participants were enrolled in the study which consists of 120 women with PCOS and 120 control in group . We collected 5 ml of blood from each participant from which 3 ml was used for biochemical analysis and 2 ml was used to investigate genetic polymorphism in VDR genes via PCR-RFLP . Chi-square test , one-way ANOVA and Kruskal-Wallis test were used for the data analysis . RESULTS : We found that polymorphism in FOK1 and APA1 genotypes were significantly associated with the body mass index ( BMI ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , prolactin level and fasting blood sample ( FBS ) , total cholesterol , triglyceride , HDL level respectively among PCOS patients ( p-value < 05 ) . Similarly , APA1 polymorphism was also associated with the hip-waist ratio , FBS , HDL , LDL and LDL/HDL ratio , estradiol and prolactin level in control group ( p < 05 ) . However , we didn ' t find any difference in the genotypic distribution of the FOK1 and APA1 gene polymorphs among the PCOS and controls group ( p > 05 ) . CONCLUSION : The polymorphism in FOK1 and APA1 genes can indirectly alter the biochemical parameter and hormonal balance in body which might contribute to the development of PCOS . Dyslipidemia and hormonal imbalance must be ruled out in relation to VDR gene polymorphism in PCOS .
Background : Major depressive disorder ( MDD ) in adolescents is a significant global public health issue , yet its pathophysiological mechanism remains unclear . Although changes in lipid metabolites have been observed in people with MDD , most relevant studies focus on adults , with limited research on adolescents . Furthermore , little is known about how interactions between metabolites and psychosocial factors contribute to MDD among adolescents . This study aimed to explore the relationship between lipid metabolism and psychological characteristics in adolescents with MDD to provide insights into its biological mechanisms . Methods : A cross-sectional study was conducted on 40 adolescents with MDD patients and 20 healthy controls ( HCs ) . Plasma samples were analyzed using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( UPLC-MS/MS ) for targeted lipidomics . Spearman analysis was employed to examine the correlation between differentially expressed lipids and the psychological characteristics of participants . Results : We identified significant differences in 37 lipid species , including glycerophospholipids ( GPs ) , glycerolipids ( GLs ) , and sphingolipids ( SPs ) , with a specific focus on lysophosphatidylcholine ( LPC ; 18 : 0 ) , which demonstrated high diagnostic potential ( area under the curve ( AUC ) = 886 ) . Pathway analysis revealed significant disturbances in GP metabolism . Spearman correlation analysis showed that most differential lipid metabolites were negatively correlated with scores of depressive symptoms , childhood maltreatment ( CM ) , extraversion , and neuroticism , while positively correlated with scores of psychoticism and positive coping in adolescents with MDD . Conclusions : The study showed that adolescents with MDD presented a significantly differentiated profile of plasma lipidomics compared to HCs . These findings may contribute to a better understanding of the role of lipid metabolism in adolescent MDD .
Eucalyptus species are known for their decongestant and antimicrobial properties , mainly due to their essential oil . However , significant challenges persist in maintaining the stability and durability of the essential oils ' effectiveness . This study examines the use of polymeric hollow fibers for encapsulating Eucalyptus essential oil ( EE ) to improve its stability and effectiveness in treating nasal congestion . The EE was obtained by hydro-distillation method , and analyzed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . A dialysis cartridge containing polysulfone hollow fibers was used to load the EE , and their permeability , morphology , and stability were assessed . Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy ( FT-IR ) and headspace sampling with gas chromatography-flame ionization detection ( GC-FID ) were employed to monitor EE release and the stability of EE-loaded hollow fibers . GC/MS analysis identified 20 major components with 1 , 8-cineole being the predominant compound at 32% . Physicochemical characterization of hollow fibers revealed complete permeability to EE . FT-IR spectra suggested potential interactions between EE and the fibers . Release studies indicated that over 80% of EE was released from the fibers within 180 min . Headspace analysis confirmed the presence and stability of 1 , 8-cineole in the loaded fibers . The stability test demonstrated no significant changes in the EE-loaded fibers over 6 days . This study indicated that the capillary properties of the EE-loaded hollow fibers facilitate oil loading , and headspace sampling provides a more efficient analysis . The successful and stable release of EE from the fibers , highlights the potential of hollow fibers for controlled drug delivery . However , conducting more accurate experiments can help deduce more logical results . FAU - Shojaei , Reyhane
Engineered lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) represent a breakthrough in targeted drug delivery , enabling precise spatiotemporal control essential to treat complex diseases such as cancer and genetic disorders . However , the complexity of the delivery process-spanning diverse targeting strategies and biological barriers-poses significant challenges to optimizing their design . To address these , this review introduces a multi-domain framework that dissects LNPs into four domains : structure , surface , payload , and environment . Engineering challenges , functional mechanisms , and characterization strategies are analyzed across each domain , along with a discussion of advantages , limitations , and in vivo fate ( e . g . , biodistribution and clearance ) . The framework also facilitates comparisons with natural exosomes and exploration of alternative administration routes , such as intranasal and intraocular delivery . We highlight current characterization techniques , such as cryo-TEM and multiscale molecular dynamics simulations , as well as the recently emerging artificial intelligence ( AI ) applications-ranging from LNP structure screening to the prospective use of generative models for de novo design beyond traditional experimental and simulation paradigms . Finally , we examine how engineered LNPs integrate active , passive , endogenous , and stimuli-responsive targeting mechanisms to achieve programmable delivery , potentially surpassing biological sophistication in therapeutic performance . FAU - Liu , Zhaoyu
The reconstitution of a cell nucleus in a lipid bilayer-enclosed synthetic cell makes great strides in bottom-up synthetic biology . In this study , a method for assembling a nucleus in giant unilamellar vesicles ( GUVs ) is proposed . To induce reconstitution of the nucleus , the interphase egg extract of African clawed frogs Xenopus laevis is utilized , known as a biochemically controllable cell-free system capable of transforming an added sperm chromatin into a nucleus in vitro . The GUV formation efficiency is enhanced by the inverted emulsion method through incorporating prolonged waiting time and adding chloroform into lipid-dispersed oil , facilitating subsequent nuclear assembly reactions in the GUVs . Characterization of nucleus-like structures formed in the GUVs revealed the presence of dense DNA and accumulated GFP-NLS in the structure , indicative of functional nuclear import . Immunostaining further validated the presence of nuclear pore complexes on the surfaces of these nucleus-like structures . The approach offers a versatile platform for constructing artificial cellular systems that closely mimic eukaryotic cells .
OBJECTIVES : To observe the effect of electroacupuncture ( EA ) on lipid metabolism and cyclic adenosine monophosphate-dependent protein kinase A ( PKA ) /cyclic adenosine monophosphate-responsive element binding protein ( CREB ) signalling pathway in obese rats , so as to explore its possible mechanism in promoting browning of white fat in obese rats . METHODS : Forty 8-week-old male SD rats were randomly divided into blank , model and EA groups ( n=10 per group ) . The obesity model was established by feeding the rats with high-fat diet for 12 weeks . For the EA group , EA ( 2 Hz/15 Hz , 5 mA ) was applied to " Zhongwan " ( CV12 ) , " Guanyuan " ( CV4 ) and bilateral " Tianshu " ( ST25 ) and " Fenglong " ( ST40 ) for 20 min , once a day , 6 days a week for 6 weeks . After the treatment , the body weight , body length and abdominal circumference of rats were evaluated , and Lee ' s index was calculated . The weight of inguinal white adipose tissue , epididymal white adipose tissue , white adipose tissue and scapular brown adipose tissue of rats were weighed . The contents of serum total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglyceride ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) were measured by the microplate method . HE staining was used to detect the morphology of inguinal white adipose tissue and scapular brown adipose tissue . Western blot was used to detect the expression levels of PKA , CREB , phosphorylated ( p ) -CREB , mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 ( UCP1 ) , peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma-coactivator 1-alpha ( PGC-1alpha ) and sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 ( SREBP-1 ) and immunohistochemistry was used to dectect the positive expressions of PKACREBp-CREBUCP1PGC-1alpha in inguinal white adipose tissue and scapular brown adipose tissue . The mRNA expressions of UCP1 , PGC-1alpha , PR domain-containing protein 16 ( PRDM16 ) , peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( PPARgamma ) , cytochrome c oxidase subunit 7a1 ( Cox7a1 ) , cytochrome c oxidase subunit 8b ( Cox8b ) , iodothyronine deiodinase 2 ( DIO2 ) , ELOVL3 fatty acid elongase 3 ( ELOVL3 ) , cell death-inducing DFFA-like effector a ( Cidea ) , T-box transcription factor 1 ( Tbx1 ) , transmembrane protein 26 ( Tmem26 ) , and 4-1BB receptor ( CD137 ) in the inguinal white adipose tissue and interscapular brown adipose tissue of rats from various groups were detected by quantitative real-time PCR . RESULTS : Compared with the blank group , the body weight , abdominal circumference , Lee ' s index , TG , TC and LDL-C contents , white fat mass in the inguinal , epididymal and perirenal regions , and SREBP-1 protein expression were significantly increased in the model group ( P<001 , P<01 ) ; whereas brown fat mass in the scapular region , serum HDL-C content , PKA , p-CREB , UCP1 , PGC-1alpha protein expression , as well as mRNA expressions of browning-related genes such as UCP1 , PGC-1alpha , and PRDM16 were significantly decreased ( P<001 , P<01 , P<05 ) . H . E . staining showed an increase of the volume of white adipose tissues , disordered arrangement of cells with vague boundary , meanwhile an enlarge of vacuoles and an increase volume of brown adipose tissues , present white adipocyte-like changes in the model group . Compared with the model group , EA can effectively improve the above indicators of lipid metabolism and white fat browning ( P<01 , P<001 , P<05 ) , and reverse the morphology of adipose tissues in the obese rats . CONCLUSIONS : EA can effectively reduce the body weight and improve lipid metabolism in obesity rats , which is possibly associated with its functions in activating the PKA/CREB signalling pathway , up-regulating the white fat browning markers UCP1 and PGC-1alpha protein expressions and white fat browning-related genes , and down-regulating the expression of the lipid regulatory protein SREBP- FAU - Liao , Cai
Exosomes are small extracellular vesicles with a diameter of 30-150 nm , secreted by a variety of cells and containing various active substances such as nucleic acids , proteins and lipids . The use of exosomes as drug carriers for targeted delivery of therapeutics has been studied for a long time . Ultrasound is recognized as a non-invasive diagnostic and therapeutic method for assisting drug loading and targeted delivery , cellular uptake and therapy . In this review , we summarize the applications of ultrasound in assisting drug loading into exosomes , targeted delivery of exosome-based drug formulations , cellular uptake , and therapy , and explore the prospects for the combined application of exosomes/exosome-based drug formulations and ultrasound . FAU - Wen , Xiuli
Liver ischemia-reperfusion injury ( IRI ) is a common complication during liver transplantation and surgery , characterised by oxidative stress , inflammation , and apoptosis , which contribute to hepatocyte damage and impaired liver function . Safflower , known for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties , has not been fully explored for its potential to alleviate liver IRI . This study aims to investigate the effects of safflower components on oxidative stress and cell apoptosis in liver IRI . A microfluidic liver cell ischemia-reperfusion model was employed to screen safflower components for their protective effects against oxidative stress and apoptosis . The effects of HSYA and other compounds were assessed by measuring cell viability , ROS levels , apoptosis , DNA damage ( 8-oxo-dG ) , lipid peroxidation ( MDA ) , and inflammatory cytokine production ( TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , IL-6 ) . HSYA exhibited superior protective effects , significantly reducing ROS , apoptosis , DNA damage , and lipid peroxidation . It also decreased pro-inflammatory cytokine levels , underscoring its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties . These findings suggest that HSYA effectively mitigates oxidative stress , inflammation , and apoptosis in liver IRI , positioning it as a promising candidate for therapeutic liver protection . FAU - Liao , Jianhua
PURPOSE : The purpose of this study was to design and evaluate a multiepitope peptide vaccine against Human papillomavirus ( HPV ) and Candida albicans ( C . albicans ) on human dendritic cells ( hDC ) . METHODS : To determine the antigenic epitopes for C . albicans and HPV , the FASTA format of protein targets was extracted from NCBI . Then , all epitopes were analyzed using ABCpred , Vaxijen , AllerTOP , ToxinPred , and molecular docking . Then , selected peptides were first synthesized using the solid phase method , mixed with cationic lipids , and characterized by DLS , Zetasizer , and nanodrop at 280 nm . In the next step , hDCs were obtained from peripheral blood and confirmed by flow cytometry . Then , they were exposed to vaccine candidates at 1 mg/mL . Next , the activation of hDC was checked by the expression and concentration of interleukin-12 ( IL-12 ) and interferon- ( IFN- ) . Also , the functionality of hDCs and antigen-loaded hDCs was evaluated by their ability to induce the proliferation of allogeneic T cells by mixed lymphocyte reaction ( MLR ) . Finally , antibody titration against vaccine candidates was investigated on Syrian male mice using the ELISA method . RESULTS : Here , KDIDLDLQEL , GPVLALNVAL , and KDIDLDLQELKKKGPVLALNVAL peptides were selected as E7 , HYR1 , and merged E7-HYR1 peptides , respectively . We found that more than 85 % of the isolated hDCs were positive for HLA-DR , CD86 , and CD209 and less than 5 % were positive for CD After treatment of hDCs with vaccine candidates , we found that peptides E7 , HYR1 , and merged E7-HYR1 could stimulate hDCs to express IL-12 and IFN- and when the selected peptides integrated into nanoliposomes , they were significantly more capable to stimulate hDC ( P < 05 ) . Also , we found that the stimulation index of vaccine-loaded hDCs was higher than unloaded hDCs . The antibody titer in mice exposed to nanoliposomes was significantly higher than in mice exposed to specific peptide vaccines . ( a ) P < 05 compared with other groups . CONCLUSION : Here , a multiepitope peptide vaccine against HPV and C . albicans was designed and evaluated on hDC . Real efficacy and side effects of this vaccine must be analyzed in future studies .
All major life forms from bacteria to humans have internal clocks that regulate essential biological processes in a roughly 24-h cycle . In mammals , the central clock in the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) is historically considered the top of a hierarchical organisation that dominates subordinate clocks in peripheral tissues and dictates the circadian behaviours of an organism . Recent studies , however , underscore the importance of the local circadian oscillators , such as the skeletal muscle clock , in regulating local metabolism and physiology . Studies in animal models show that the muscle peripheral clock per se is required for the expression of genes involved in glucose , lipid , and amino acid metabolism . Disruption of the muscle clock leads to glucose intolerance , insulin resistance , and alterations in muscle size and force . This highlights the vital role of the muscle clock in controlling muscle physiology and metabolism . In humans , a perturbation in the muscle circadian rhythms is seen in metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes , and muscle diseases such as dystrophies . Disruption of muscle metabolism is also seen when the internal rhythms are misaligned with the external rhythms ( circadian misalignments ) as in shift work . Understanding the mechanisms by which the muscle clock regulates circadian functions may help the development of new strategies , such as chronotherapy , to potentially prevent or treat muscle pathologies and maintain muscle health .
Atopic dermatitis is a chronic skin condition with no cure . Current conventional treatments can have many side effects or are expensive . Emerging evidence suggests leukotriene receptor antagonists could serve as a corticosteroid-sparing option . This meta-analysis examined 26 studies on the efficacy of leukotriene receptor antagonists for treating atopic dermatitis across 742 participants . There were non-significant reductions in atopic dermatitis severity overall . However , in subgroup analyses montelukast significantly reduced Severity Scoring of Atopic Dermatitis scores in adult populations ( SMD = -94 , 95% CI -35 to -54 , p < 0001 ) and also when compared with conventional treatment rather than placebo ( SMD = -84 , 95% CI -21 to -47 , p < 0001 ) . Studies excluded from the statistical analysis generally showed a positive trend favouring montelukast , even if results were not statistically significant . Montelukast shows potential as an adjunct therapy in atopic dermatitis , particularly in adults , but its efficacy is inconsistent . While it may help with pruritus , it should not replace standard treatments . Future research should focus on standardized assessments and personalized approaches to clarify its role in atopic dermatitis management . FAU - Mahmood , Safa Fawaza
Clinically aggressive lactotroph pituitary neuroendocrine tumors ( PitNET ) are invasive tumors with an unusually rapid growth rate despite maximally tolerated doses of dopamine agonist ( DA ) . We aimed to unravel the molecular heterogeneity of lactotroph PitNET and to identify biomarkers of aggressiveness and resistance to pharmacological treatment . A total of 13 patients harboring DA-resistant lactotroph PitNET were included in this study . Visium Spatial Transcriptomics ( ST ) , whole transcriptome sequencing ( WTS ) , and whole exome sequencing ( WES ) were performed in tumors from 4 of these patients ; WTS and WES was carried out in 5 ; tumors from two patients underwent ST and WES and tumors from two other patients underwent only ST . Tumors were classified as null or partial responders according to their response to DA treatment . The eight PitNET analyzed by ST exhibited significant intratumoral heterogeneity , with clones showing alterations in PI3K/AKT and lipid metabolism pathways , particularly inositol phosphate , glycerophospholipid , and sphingolipid metabolism . The cell-cell communication analysis showed FGF-FGFR ligand receptor interaction whilst the transcription factors RXRA and CREM showed participation in both groups . A trajectory exploration was performed by including all PitNET together in a single analysis to determine whether there was a tendency or molecular pathway showing a differentiation pattern that would guide the transition from a partially responsive PitNET to a completely unresponsive one . We did not observe any such pattern . All of these findings were corroborated in the cohort of DA-resistant PitNETs in which only bulk WTS and WES were performed . The bulk WTS corroborated lipid metabolism and PI3K-AKT pathway alteration in PitNET , whereas the WES showed only SF3beta1 and TP53 variants in one tumor each . Our work suggests that the PI3K/AKT pathway may constitute a molecular target at which to aim therapeutic strategies designed to treat aggressive and DA-resistant lactotroph PitNET .
BACKGROUND : Medication abortion ( MA ) may be accessed covertly in private pharmacies and clinics due to abortion-related stigma . Stigmatization may lead to information asymmetry , resulting in price discrimination . The existing literature on abortion in Ghana has primarily focused on factors associated with abortion stigma . However , the potential variations in MA cost have not been explored . Thus , we aim to explore the potential disparities in MA cost based on women ' s socio-demographic status in Ghana . METHODS : We used data from a study that recruited women who accessed MA using mifepristone and misoprostol combination from selected private pharmacies and clinics in Ghana . The study employed a non-inferiority and prospective design , and women were recruited as they exited the selected facilities after obtaining the MA pills . Our final analysis included 929 pharmacy clients and 1 , 045 clinic clients . To understand the variability in MA cost , we initially conducted two decomposition analyses using the variance and Blinder-Oaxaca techniques , followed by linear regressions to identify the socio-demographic factors that predict MA cost . RESULTS : The average costs of MA were approximately US$ 00 and US$ 00 for the clinic and pharmacy groups , respectively . Additionally , the cost varied between pharmacy and clinic groups and within each group . A greater segment of the variation among the clinic group stemmed from between facilities ( 78 percent ) , whereas , among the pharmacies , the bigger share came from within facilities ( 57 percent ) . Regression results further indicate that the cost of MA increased among women with higher education , those who have not been in a union with a partner and those who accessed MA in clinics . CONCLUSIONS : MA cost in Ghana is largely based on providers ' discretion and at the facility ' s management level . Additionally , the cost differs by women ' s socio-demographic attributes . To reduce the disparities in MA costs , developing guidelines to address the health system challenges regarding MA provision and access is important . Educational programs on MA access , provision and legal framework could also reduce abortion-related stigma and cost variations .
Inflammation is a complex , tightly regulated process involving biochemical and cellular reactions to harmful stimuli . Often termed " the internal fire " , it is crucial for protecting the body and facilitating tissue healing . While inflammation is essential for survival , chronic inflammation can be detrimental , leading to tissue damage and reduced survival . The innate immune system triggers inflammation , closely linked to the development of heart diseases , with significant consequences for individuals . Inflammation in arterial walls or the body substantially contributes to atherosclerotic disease progression , affecting the cardiovascular system . Altered lipoproteins increase the risk of excessive blood clotting , a hallmark of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and its complications . Integrating inflammatory biomarkers with established risk assessment techniques can enhance our ability to identify at-risk individuals , assess their risk severity , and recommend appropriate CVD prevention strategies . Exosomes , a type of extracellular vesicle , are released by various cells and mediate cell communication locally and systemically . In the past decade , exosomes have been increasingly studied for their vital roles in health maintenance and disease processes . They can transport substances like non-coding RNAs , lipids , and proteins between cells , influencing immune responses and inflammation to elicit harmful or healing effects . This study focuses on the critical role of inflammation in heart disease progression and how non-coding RNAs in exosomes modulate the inflammatory process , either exacerbating or alleviating inflammation-related damage in the cardiovascular system .
A total of 160 healthy raccoon dogs with no significant difference in body weight were selected and randomly divided into 10 groups , with each group having 4 replicates and each replicate consisting of 4 individuals . The pre-test period lasted for 7 days , followed by a formal test period of 82 days . The raccoon dogs in the 10 groups were fed basal diet supplemented with 50 mg/kg chlortetracycline and 100 mg/kg quinocetone ( control group ) , 100 mg/kg OEO and 150 mg/kg BS ( group I ) , 100 mg/kg OEO and 300 mg/kg BS ( group II ) , 100 mg/kg OEO and 450 mg/kg BS ( group III ) , 200 mg/kg OEO and 150 mg/kg BS ( group IV ) , 200 mg/kg OEO and 300 mg/kg BS ( group V ) , 200 mg/kg OEO and 450 mg/kg BS ( group VI ) , 300 mg/kg OEO and 150 mg/kg BS ( group VII ) , 300 mg/kg OEO and 300 mg/kg BS ( group VIII ) , 300 mg/kg OEO and 450 mg/kg BS ( group IX ) . The results showed that there were no significant difference in final weight and average daily gain among all groups ( P > 05 ) . The ADFI of group IV was the least , which was significantly lower than that of the control group ( P < 05 ) . The F/G in group IV was significantly higher than that in groups I , II , III , V , VII and VIII ( P < 05 ) . There were no significant differences in DM output , DM digestibility , protein digestibility and fat digestibility among groups ( P > 05 ) . There were no significant differences in nitrogen intake , fecal nitrogen , urine nitrogen , nitrogen retention , net protein utilization rate and protein biological value among the ten groups ( P > 05 ) . There was no significant difference in serum SOD activity , GSH-PX activity , MDA content and T-AOC activity between the groups supplemented with OEO and BS compared with the antibiotic group ( P > 05 ) . There was no significant difference in body length , skin length , skin weight , guard hair length and underfur length between each level group and the control group ( P > 05 ) . The feed input cost of the other experimental groups was lower than that of the control group except for the experimental groups II , VIII and IX . The cost of feed additives in each experimental group was higher than that in the control group . The income of group III , VII and IX was higher than that of the control group , and the income of group III was the highest . In conclusion , under the experimental conditions , dietary supplementation of OEO and BS to the diet can improve the growth performance , fur quality as well as absorption of nutrients and antioxidant level by the body of raccoon dogs in winter fur period . The optimum supplemental levels of OEO and BS in the diet of raccoon dog in winter fur period were 100 mg/kg and 450 mg/kg .
BACKGROUND : Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus ( PEDV ) infection poses a significant challenge to the swine industry , with limited effective control measures available . Poria cocos polysaccharides ( PCP ) is the primary active ingredient of Poria cocos , and has been demonstrated to show beneficial effects on intestinal damage in previous studies . However , its mechanism has not been fully understood . In the present study , 18 seven-day-old piglets were divided into 3 groups : Control group , PEDV group , and PCP + PEDV group . After three days of adaptation , piglets in the PCP + PEDV group were orally administered 10 mg/kg body weight/d PCP from d 4 to On d 8 , piglets were orally administered with PEDV at the dose of 10 ( 5 ) TCID/piglet . This study aimed to investigate the potential effects of PCP on PEDV-induced intestinal injury and explored the underlying mechanisms . RESULTS : The results showed that PCP administration effectively alleviated diarrhea , reduced PEDV replication in the small intestine and colon of piglets , and significantly improved intestinal mucosal morphology . Specifically , PCP increased the villus height in both the jejunum and ileum and increased the villus height to crypt depth ratio in the ileum ( P < 05 ) . Improved intestinal function was further evidenced by elevated plasma D-xylose levels and decreased diamine oxidase activity ( P < 05 ) . Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that lipid metabolism is a key pathway regulated by PCP during PEDV infection . Notably , PCP significantly upregulated sphingolipid metabolism-related genes , including ectonucleotide pyrophosphatase/phosphodiesterase family member 7 and N-acylsphingosine amidohydrolase Metabolomic analysis revealed that PCP primarily modulated the levels of plasmanylphosphoethanolamine , lysophosphatidylcholine , and carnitine . Additionally , PCP reversed the expression of key genes involved in fatty acid uptake , intracellular lipid transport , and fatty acid synthesis , such as fatty acid binding protein 2 , fatty acid transport protein 4 , apolipoprotein B , apolipoprotein C3 , fatty acid synthase , long-chain fatty acyl CoA synthetase 3 , lipoprotein lipase and acyl-CoA thioesterases 12 ( P < 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : These findings demonstrate that PCP mitigates PEDV-induced intestinal injury by modulating lipid metabolism and highlight its potential as a dietary supplement for enhancing anti-PEDV defenses and promoting intestinal health in piglets .
Short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , the primary metabolites produced by the microbial fermentation of dietary fibers in the gut , have a key role in protecting gut health . Increasing evidence indicates SCFAs can exert effects on distant tissues and organs beyond the gut via blood circulation . Osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a chronic inflammatory joint disease that severely diminishes the physical function and quality of life . However , effective clinical treatments for OA remain elusive . Recent studies have shown that SCFAs can exert beneficial effects on damaged joints in OA . SCFAs can mitigate OA progression by preserving intestinal barrier function and maintaining the integrity of cartilage and subchondral bone , suggesting that they have substantial potential to be the adjunctive treatment strategy for OA . This review described the SCFAs in the human body and their cellular signaling mechanism , and summarized the multiple effects of SCFAs ( especially butyrate , propionate , and acetate ) on the prevention and treatment of OA by regulating the gut-joint axis , providing novel insights into their promising clinical applications .
BACKGROUND : Alveolarcapillary barrier disruption is a hallmark of acute lung injury ( ALI ) and acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) . The contribution of necroptosis to the compromised alveolar-barrier in ALI remains unclear . Mesenchymal stem cells ( MSCs ) may contribute to tissue repair in ALI and ARDS . Here we evaluated the efficacy and explored the molecular mechanisms of menstrual blood-derived endometrial stem cells ( MenSCs ) and MenSC-derived extracellular vesicles ( MenSC-EVs ) in ALI-induced alveolar epithelial barrier dysfunction . METHODS : Human lung epithelial cells were stimulated with endotoxin and treated with MenSCs or MenSC-EVs , and their barrier properties were evaluated . Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -injured mice were treated with MenSCs or MSC-EVs , and the degree of lung injury and the alveolar epithelial barrier of the lung tissue were assessed . RESULTS : We found that MenSCs reduced lung injury and restored alveolar-barrier integrity in lung tissue . In vitro , MenSCs reduced paracellular permeability and restored barrier integrity in human lung epithelial cells . MenSC-EVs replicated all these MenSC-mediated changes . Mechanistic research revealed that MenSCs inhibited MAPK signaling and necroptosis . JNK inhibition SP600125 , and ERK inhibition U0126 or inhibition of necroptosis with Nec-1 or GSK872 diminished the beneficial anti-epithelial barrier dysfunction effects of MenSCs or MenSC-EVs . CONCLUSIONS : Our results suggest that human menstrual blood-derived endometrial stem cells mitigate lung injury and improve alveolar barrier properties by inhibiting MAPK-mediated necroptosis through extracellular vesicles , supporting the application of MenSCs or MenSC-derived extracellular vesicles to treat ALI or ARDS .
BACKGROUND : Polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) is a common reproductive and metabolic disorder in the reproductive-age women . The international evidence-based guideline for the assessment and management of PCOS 2023 now suggests raising the follicle number per ovary ( FNPO ) threshold from 12 to 20 to define its key feature , polycystic ovarian morphology ( PCOM ) . However , understanding of low- and high-FNPO PCOS cases defined in this cutoff is very limited . Given that the measures of lipoprotein subfractions are the biomarkers of several common diseases , this study aims to explore clinical characteristics and lipoprotein subfractions in low- and high-FNPO PCOS , and develop a diagnostic model . METHODS : A total of 1918 women including 792 low- and 182 high-FNPO PCOS cases , met the international evidence-based guideline 2023 , and 944 controls were collected for clinical data analysis . Plasma samples of 66 low-FNPO and 24 high-FNPO PCOS cases and 22 controls matched with BMI and age were utilized for the measurement of 112 lipoprotein subfractions by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy . Partial least squares discriminant analysis ( PLS-DA ) and logistic regression analysis were used to identify key lipoprotein subfractions . Ten machine learning algorithms and recursive feature elimination with logistic regression were used to construct the effective model to predict PCOM based on the new guideline . Models were validated with bootstrap resampling . RESULTS : High-FNPO PCOS cases presented worse lipid parameters compared with low-FNPO cases and controls . Based on the results of PLS-DA and logistic regression analysis , seven key lipoprotein subfractions were selected , including V2TG , V3TG , V4TG , V2CH , V3CH , V3PL , and V4PL . The addition of them into the anti-Mullerian hormone ( AMH ) models for predicting high-FNPO PCOS resulted in a significantly improved model performance ( AUC increased from 750 to 874 ) . Even if the only V3TG was added into the AMH model , the AUC increased to CONCLUSIONS : Lipid metabolism , particularly seven key lipoprotein subfractions , has been identified as a major risk factor for high-FNPO PCOS cases . Among these , V3TG subfraction warrants special attention , both from the perspective of disease risk and precision diagnosis . Due to the lack of effective external validation at this stage , validation of larger sample sizes is necessary before generalizing the application .
BACKGROUND : Patients with thalassemia acquire cellular oxidative damage mainly from the degradation of excessive uncoupled hemoglobin ( Hb ) chains and iron overload . The oxidative damage of red blood cells ( RBCs ) and platelets potentially results in the worsening of ineffective erythropoiesis , hemolysis , and the occurrence of thromboembolic events . Vitamin E ( VitE ) is an antioxidant that inhibits membrane lipid peroxidation . It is widely used as a supplement in thalassemia ; however , its benefits in improving cellular oxidative damage remain unclear . METHODS : We conducted a double-blind , randomized , controlled trial registered in the Thai Clinical Trials Registry ( TCTR20220801001 ) on 01/08/ We randomized transfusion-dependent ( TD ) beta- and alpha-thalassemia ( aged 10-25 years ) to receive oral VitE 400 IU/day or placebo at a 1 : 1 ratio for 6 months . Cellular oxidative damage markers , including phosphatidyl serine ( PS ) -bearing RBCs , PS-bearing RBC vesicles , PS-bearing platelets , PS-bearing microparticles ( MPs ) , PS-bearing RBC-MPs , PS-bearing platelet MPs ( PMPs ) and platelet activation , were measured before and after the intervention as the primary outcomes . RESULTS : Seventy-four TD thalassemia patients were categorized into 63 beta-thalassemia ( 10 splenectomy , beta-Thal-S ; and 53 non-splenectomy , beta-Thal-NS ) and 11 alpha-thalassemia ( non-splenectomy , alpha-Thal-NS ) . Randomized from all patient groups , 36 received VitE and 38 received a placebo . A significant reduction in PS-bearing RBCs and PS-bearing RBC vesicles was observed in the beta-Thal-NS receiving VitE . This occurred parallel with a substantial decrease in malondialdehyde levels , as a marker of lipid peroxidation , found only in the beta-Thal-NS but not in beta-Thal-S and alpha-Thal-NS groups . In the beta-Thal-NS group , VitE had improved RBC pathology as demonstrated by the inverse correlation between post-treatment VitE levels and PS-bearing RBCs ( p = 001 ) as well as reticulocyte count ( p = 006 ) , although Hb levels remained unchanged . The VitE treatment did not result in improving platelet pathology or reducing MPs . No adverse event was reported in both VitE and placebo groups . CONCLUSIONS : VitE 400 IU/day was well-tolerated and associated with improved oxidative damage of the RBCs in TD beta-Thal-NS patients . Accordingly , advice for VitE supplementation in young TD beta-Thal-NS patients can be beneficial .
BACKGROUND : Sepsis-induced acute lung injury ( ALI ) is a clinical condition with high morbidity and mortality , and impaired endothelial function is the main pathological characteristic . As a member of DNA demethylases , ten-eleven translocation protein 2 ( TET2 ) is involved in a variety of biological processes . However , the role of TET2 in endothelial dysfunction of sepsis-induced ALI remains unclear . METHODS : We used cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) to establish a sepsis-induced acute lung injury mouse model and screened out Tet2 from TET family proteins . The results suggested that Tet2 was obviously declined . We used lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) to stimulate human pulmonary microvascular endothelial cells ( HPMECs ) as an in vitro model , and we found the expression of TET2 was also decreased . Then we used small interfering RNAs and adenovirus to knockdown or overexpress TET2 to investigate the effect of TET2 on the function of HPMECs . The changes in sepsis-induced ALI symptoms were also analyzed in Tet2-deficient mice generated by adeno-associated virus 6 ( AAV6 ) . Next , RNA sequencing and KEGG analysis were used to find the TET2-regulated downstream target genes and signaling pathways under LPS stimulation . Finally , the rescue experiments were performed to analyze the role of target genes and signaling pathways modulated by TET2 in LPS-treated HPMECs . RESULTS : TET2 and 5-hmC levels were significantly decreased in both in vitro and in vivo models of sepsis-induced ALI . TET2 knockdown exacerbated the dysfunction and apoptosis of HPMECs induced by LPS . Conversely , TET2 overexpression significantly alleviated these dysfunctions and reduced apoptosis . Meanwhile , the lung injury of Tet2-deficient mice was aggravated by increased inflammation and apoptosis . RNA sequencing and subsequent experiments showed that TET2 overexpression could increase the expression of Integrin alpha10 ( ITGA10 ) by reducing the methylation level of ITGA10 promoter . This , in turn , activated the PI3K-AKT signaling pathway . Knocking down ITGA10 weakened the beneficial effects of TET2 overexpression in LPS-stimulated endothelial cells . CONCLUSIONS : In our study , we demonstrated that TET2 deficiency aggravates endothelial cell dysfunction and promotes acute lung injury by targeting ITGA10 via the PI3K-AKT pathway . These findings indicate that TET2 may be a promising therapeutic target for treating sepsis-induced ALI .
BACKGROUND : Pemafibrate helps regulate fatty acid dynamics in the liver , potentially preventing metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) . However , its effect on intestinal long-chain fatty acid ( LCFA ) metabolism in MASH remains unclear . Thus , we aimed to examine the influence of pemafibrate on intestinal LCFA metabolism and hepatic fibrosis in a MASH rat model . METHODS : Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a high-fat and high-cholesterol diet to induce MASH and then divided into pemafibrate-treated ( pemafibrate ( + ) ) and untreated ( pemafibrate ( - ) ) groups . Triglyceride deposition in the small intestine and fibrosis , along with alpha-smooth muscle actin level in the liver , were evaluated . Furthermore , the mRNA expression levels of genes associated with lipid metabolism in the small intestine and markers of fibrosis and hepatic stellate cells activation in the liver were measured . RESULTS : The pemafibrate-treated group had markedly lower triglyceride deposition and lipid absorption in the intestine , and significantly lower levels of molecules involved in intestinal lipid regulation than the pemafibrate-untreated group . Moreover , hepatic fibrosis significantly improved , and the mRNA levels of fibrosis-related molecules and hepatic stellate cell activation factors significantly decreased in the pemafibrate-treated compared with those in the pemafibrate-untreated group . CONCLUSIONS : Pemafibrate reduced lipid droplet formation and LCFA absorption in the intestinal tract and alleviated hepatic fibrosis in MASH model rats .
BACKGROUND : Hepatocellular Carcinoma ( HCC ) is related to dysregulated lipid metabolism and immunosuppressive microenvironment . This study developed a genetic risk model using lipid metabolism-related genes to predict survival and immune patterns in HCC patients . METHODS : Differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) related to lipid metabolism were identified in HCC via the TCGA-LIHC dataset . A risk model for survival prediction was constructed via DEGs related to survival . The immune signature associated with the risk model was also evaluated by the CIBERSORT algorithm , tumor immune dysfunction and exclusion algorithm , and single sample gene set enrichment analysis . RESULTS : This study identified six lipid metabolism-related genes , ADH4 , LCAT , CYP2C9 , CYP17A1 , LPCAT1 , and ACACA , to construct a lipid metabolism-related gene risk model that can divide HCC patients into low- and high-risk groups . Internal and external validation verified that the risk model could be a signature that could effectively predict HCC patient prognosis . High-risk patients showed disrupted immune cell profiles , reduced tumor-killing capacity , and increased expression of immune checkpoint genes . However , they responded more favorably to immune checkpoint inhibitor ( ICB ) therapy . The top ten hub genes related to the risk model were associated with tumor progression and deteriorating prognosis . In vitro experiments verified that the downregulation of the top 1 hub gene CDK1 was correlated to the HCC cell proliferation . CONCLUSION : The risk model constructed using lipid metabolism-related genes could effectively predict prognosis and was related to the immunosuppressive microenvironment and ICB immunotherapy . The hub genes related to the risk model were potential therapeutic targets .
Simvastatin is one the most commonly used drugs for treatment of hypercholesterolemia but suffers from low bioavailability ( about 5% ) owing to poor aqueous solubility and extensive first pass metabolism . Glycerylmonostearate/chitosan hybrid olive oil cored nanocapsules were fabricated by a self-assembly method . Nine batches were successfully produced based on glycerylmonostearate/chitosan ratio and olive oil concentration . Selected formulation was and evaluated for oral bioavailability enhancement and pharmacodynamics . Glycerylmonostearate/chitosan ratio strongly influence the particle size and encapsulation of the formulations . Higher concentrations of olive oil produced larger particle size , heterogeneous distribution and higher encapsulation . Embedding of SIM in system matrix with existence in amorphous state was verified by DSC and FTIR tools . Selected formulation significantly enhanced SIM oral bioavailability with a 27-time higher in AUC when compared to SIM suspension . In addition , in vivo prolonged effect was verified by higher elimination half-life and mean residence time in plasma . Furthermore , pathological changes in liver and aorta associated with Poloxamer 704 injection have been mostly corrected . Serum lipid profile , liver function enzymes and oxidative stress were also restored . According to these results , glycerylmonostearate/chitosan hybrid olive oil cored nanocapsules proved to be a promising formulation strategy to significantly enhance SIM peroral bioavailability and therefore therapeutic efficacy .
OBJECTIVES : This Mendelian randomization ( MR ) study aims to explore the causal effect of well-being spectrum on temporomandibular disorders ( TMDs ) . MATERIALS AND METHODS : We employed the largest available summary-level data from genome-wide association studies on the well-being spectrum and its four dimensions-life satisfaction , positive affect , neuroticism and depressive symptoms-along with data on TMDs . Univariable and multivariable MR analyses were used to assess causal effects and their independence from socioeconomic factors , including income , education , and occupation . Additionally , 125 potential mediators were examined for their role in the well-being spectrum-TMDs relationships using two-step MR . RESULTS : A higher well-being spectrum was causally linked to a reduced risk of TMDs , independent of income ( OR : 39 , 95% CI : 78-43 , p < 001 ) , education ( OR : 52 , 95% CI : 68-33 , p = 001 ) , and occupation ( OR : 74 , 95% CI : 12-53 , p < 001 ) . Similar patterns were observed for life satisfaction , positive affect , neuroticism and depressive symptoms . Daily smoking ( mediation proportion : 9% ) and HDL-C ( 8% ) were identified as significant mediators . No evidence of pleiotropy was detected ( p > 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : A higher well-being spectrum has a protective effect against TMDs , partially mediated by daily smoking and lipid metabolism . CLINICAL RELEVANCE : These findings underscore the critical role of well-being spectrum in the management of TMDs . Among individuals with lower well-being , smokers and those with low HDL-C levels may be at an increased risk for TMDs , warranting focused monitoring and personalized preventive strategies .
With increased age , the liver becomes more vulnerable to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) with fibrosis . Deciphering the complex interplay between aging , the emergence of senescent cells in the liver and MASH fibrosis is critical for developing treatments . Here we report an epigenetic mechanism that links liver aging to MASH fibrosis . We find that upregulation of the chromatin remodeler BAZ2B in a subpopulation of hepatocytes ( HEPs ) is linked to MASH pathology in patients . Genetic ablation or hepatocyte-specific knockdown of Baz2b in mice attenuates HEP senescence and MASH fibrosis by preserving peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ( PPARalpha ) -mediated lipid metabolism , which was impaired in both naturally aged and MASH mouse livers . Mechanistically , Baz2b downregulates the expression of genes related to the PPARalpha signaling pathway by directly binding their promoter regions and reducing chromatin accessibility . Thus , our study unravels the BAZ2B-PPARalpha-lipid metabolism axis as a link from liver aging to MASH fibrosis , suggesting that BAZ2B is a potential therapeutic target for HEP senescence and fibrosis .
Breast cancer is the most diagnosed cancer and the second leading cause of cancer death in women . Although treatments with major anti-cancer modalities are largely successful , resistance to treatments including widely applied radiation therapy ( RT ) can occur due largely to the multifaceted mechanisms in the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . The present work investigated the ability of Polymer-Lipid-Manganese Dioxide Nanoparticles ( PLMD ) to overcome hypoxia-associated radioresistant mechanisms and enhance RT-induced immunogenic cell death ( ICD ) and anti-tumor immunity for inhibiting growth of primary and distant tumors ( the abscopal effect ) . The results showed that PLMD plus RT significantly inhibited the clonogenic survival of murine EMT6 and 4T1 breast cancer cells under hypoxic condition compared to RT alone . Analysis of ICD biomarkers revealed that PLMD profoundly enhanced RT-induced ICD compared to RT alone in EMT6 and 4T1 cells under hypoxic conditions but not under normoxic conditions . In a syngeneic murine breast tumor model with 4T1 orthotopic tumor , the PLMD treatment reduced tumor hypoxia significantly ; PLMD + RT combination therapy increased infiltration of cytotoxic CD8 ( + ) T cells and CD86 ( + ) macrophages and decreased infiltration of immunosuppressive Tregs and CD163 ( + ) macrophages , as compared to RT alone . Importantly , the PLMD + RT treatment generated an abscopal effect in a tumor growth experiment using a double-tumor model , where the growth of an untreated tumor was inhibited by treatment of a tumor grown on the opposite side . Overall , the PLMD + RT induced an anti-tumor immune response that inhibited both primary and distant tumor growths and extended median survival in the tumor model .
The escalating global obesity crisis and its associated metabolic disorders have posed a significant threat to public health , increasing the risk of major health issues such as cardiovascular diseases and type 2 diabetes . Central to metabolic regulation are the liver and brown adipose tissue ( BAT ) , which orchestrate glycolipid metabolism , thermogenesis , and energy homeostasis . Emerging evidence highlights the role of natural bioactive compounds-such as polyphenols ( e . g . , resveratrol , curcumin ) , alkaloids ( e . g . , berberine ) , and terpenoids ( e . g . , paeoniflorin , shikonin ) -in modulating liver-BAT crosstalk . These compounds influence critical pathways , including AMPK activation , PPAR signaling , and UCP1-mediated thermogenesis , to enhance lipid oxidation , suppress gluconeogenesis , and improve insulin sensitivity . This review systematically examines how these natural agents regulate metabolic interplay between the liver and BAT , addressing their effects on energy expenditure , carbohydrate utilization , and lipid mobilization . Key mechanisms involve the suppression of hepatic lipogenesis , promotion of BAT-mediated thermogenesis , and secretion of hepatokines ( e . g . , FGF21 ) and batokines that coordinate interorgan communication . By synthesizing preclinical and clinical findings , we highlight the translational potential of dietary interventions and nutraceuticals targeting liver-BAT axis dysfunction . Future research should prioritize mechanistic studies , dose optimization , and personalized approaches to harness these compounds for combating obesity-related diseases . These insights underscore the promise of natural bioactive molecules as adjuvants to lifestyle modifications , offering innovative strategies for metabolic health restoration .
The VitDPAS study ( NCT06104111 ) was designed as a medical experiment to assess the in vivo effects of vitamin D on immune responses . This study enrolled 45 healthy individuals from Olsztyn , Poland , who received a body weight-adjusted bolus dose of vitamin D ( 1 , 000 IU/kg ) . Transcriptome-wide differential gene expression analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells , collected before and 24 h after supplementation , identified 758 significantly responsive genes ( p < 05 ) . By correlating individual gene expression changes with alterations in vitamin D status , participants were categorized into three response groups : 17 high responders , 19 mid responders , and 9 low responders . A comparative analysis with the VitDHiD study ( NCT03537027 ) , conducted on a Finnish cohort of 25 healthy participants , revealed 232 overlapping target genes , enabling an integrated assessment of vitamin D responsiveness across all 70 individuals . Applying a more stringent statistical threshold ( false discovery rate < 05 ) highlighted 26 shared target genes , demonstrating a consistent in vivo response to vitamin D across both cohorts . The modulation of inflammatory processes , mediated primarily via tumor necrosis factor and nuclear factor kappaB signaling pathways , emerged as a shared effect , highlightening the immunomodulatory potential of vitamin D as a key function of the vitamin in healthy individuals .
Mutations in PIK3R1 have recently been identified in patients with overgrowth syndromes and complex vascular malformations . PIK3R1 encodes p85alpha which acts as the regulatory subunit of the lipid kinase PI3Kalpha . PIK3R1 mutations result in the excessive activation of the AKT/mTOR pathway . Currently , there are no approved treatments specifically dedicated to patients with PIK3R1 mutations , and medical care primarily focuses on managing symptoms . In this study , we identified three patients , including two children , who had mosaic somatic PIK3R1 mutations affecting the iSH2 domain , along with severe associated symptoms that were unsuccessfully treated with rapamycin . We conducted in vitro experiments to investigate the impact of these mutations , including a double PIK3R1 mutation in cis observed in one patient . Our findings revealed that p85alpha mutants in the iSH2 domain showed sensitivity to alpelisib , a pharmacological inhibitor of PI3Kalpha . Based on these findings , we received authorization to administer alpelisib to all three patients . Following drug introduction , patients rapidly demonstrated clinical improvement , pain , fatigue and inflammatory flares were attenuated . Magnetic Resonance Imaging showed a mean decrease of 67% in the volume of vascular malformations over twelve months of treatment with alpelisib . No drug-related adverse events were reported during the course of the study . In conclusion , this study provides support for the use of PI3Kalpha inhibition as a promising therapeutic approach for individuals with PIK3R1-related anomalies .
INTRODUCTION : Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) is a common type of kidney cancer , and the prognosis for patients with advanced-stage disease remains poor . One major obstacle is the development of drug resistance , which severely limits the effectiveness of therapeutic interventions . This bibliometric study aims to provide a comprehensive overview of current research trends on drug resistance in RCC . METHODS : This study examines publications on drug resistance in RCC from 2000 to 2023 , sourced from the Web of Science Core Collection ( WoSCC ) . Detailed analyses were conducted to identify research hotspots , academic collaborations , and emerging trends . CiteSpace , SCImago Graphica , and VOSviewer were utilized to conduct these analyses comprehensively . RESULTS : This study analyzed a total of 2 , 804 publications from the WoSCC database . The number of annual publications showed a consistent upward trend , with an average annual growth rate of 12% . The United States had the highest number of publications , followed by China and Japan . The most productive institutions were the University of Texas System , Harvard University , and the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) . Alfred H . Schinkel emerged as the most prolific author , also having the highest H-index . The three most frequent research categories were oncology , pharmacology and pharmacy , and biochemistry and molecular biology . The evolution of research topics was assessed in 5-year intervals , revealing that recent themes such as ferroptosis and immunotherapy have gained increasing attention . Keyword analysis indicated a shift in research focus toward cell lipid metabolism , androgen receptor and specific molecular signatures . CONCLUSION : This study offers the first comprehensive bibliometric analysis specifically focused on drug resistance in RCC . It identifies current research trends , highlights emerging hotspots , and provides insights into key contributors and ongoing challenges in the field . Our study provides a theoretical reference and guidance to guide future research efforts to address drug resistance in RCC more effectively .
Ferroptosis is a type of cell death process defined by iron-dependent peroxidation of phospholipids leading to the destruction of cellular membranes and death of the cell . Ferroptosis occurs throughout the body , but a considerable research focus on ferroptosis in the brain - neuroferroptosis - has been driven by the rich lipid and iron content of the brain as well as its high oxygen consumption . Neurons also have an exceptionally large surface area and metabolic demand , which necessitates specific mechanisms ( such as lipid antioxidants ) to engage constantly to protect the plasma membrane against lipid peroxidation . Ferroptosis has been extensively linked to neurodegeneration and ischaemia and is increasingly implicated in physiological processes such as neuronal reprogramming . Astrocytes provide metabolic support to neurons , enabling them to defend against ferroptosis , yet ferroptotic signals in microglia can propagate damage to astrocytes and neurons , highlighting the complex intercellular ( patho ) physiology of neuroferroptosis .
Venous thrombosis is a serious complication that adversely impacts the prognosis of patients with intracerebral hemorrhage ( ICH ) and even threatens their lives . Triglyceride glucose product ( TyG ) index is closely related to the pathophysiological process of cerebral hemorrhage and venous thrombosis . A total of 308 ICH patients were divided into training ( n = 215 ) and validation groups ( n = 93 ) . Single factor logistic regression analysis and multiple factor logistic regression analysis were performed . Seven factors associated with lower extremity venous thrombosis were identified : emergency cranial surgery , pneumonia , stroke history , age , TyG index , capryini score >/= 10 , and glomerular filtration rate . The area under the curve was found to be 79 ( 95% CI : 72-86 ) in the training group and 70 ( 95% CI : 58-83 ) in the validation group . Calibration plots demonstrated strong concordance between predicted probabilities from our model and observed outcomes ; Decision curve analysis further confirmed that our nomogram provides substantial clinical net benefit . By integrating the TyG index with recognized clinical risk factors for ICH patients , we have developed a predictive nomogram that aids in early identification of individuals at high risk for lower extremity venous thrombosis as well as supports personalized management strategies for these patients .
Liver cancer carries a poor prognosis and incidence continues to increase . The main therapy for unresectable disease > 3 cm in diameter is Transarterial Chemoembolization . Unfortunately , overall survival for these patients has improved little in the past two decades . To address this , we propose a new approach using a chemical reaction in situ . We report here our results in a pilot study using a swine model . Domestic swine ( n = 3 ) were treated in the liver with dichloroacetic anhydride in ethiodized oil . CT imaging was followed 24 h after the procedure by necropsy , histopathology , and mass spectrometry imaging . Animals tolerated the procedure well . Imaging showed that the solution remained stable over 24 h . Areas of coagulative necrosis were identified at histopathology . Multiplex immunofluorescence showed focal areas where antibodies did not bind . Similarly , mass spectrometry imaging showed areas of low-abundance or absent molecular ions and new molecular ions in treated areas . The data presented here provide the first direct evidence that reactive embolization results in fundamental changes in tissue architecture down to the molecular level , suggesting significant therapeutic potential . These encouraging results open a wide new field of image-guided in vivo chemistry worthy of further exploration .
Obesity , resulting from excessive adipocyte accumulation , is a primary risk for various diseases . Although its impact on hematopoietic stem cell ( HSC ) function has been reported , its effects on HSC differentiation remain controversial . O-GlcNAc transferase ( OGT ) , which catalyzes the attachment of N-acetylglucosamine to serine and threonine residues in proteins , acts as a metabolic sensor capable of regulating diverse physiological processes . This study demonstrates that obesity is associated with higher peripheral monocyte levels . Adipocyte OGT is crucial for monocyte development in high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced obesity , promoting an increase in peripheral blood monocytes through transcriptional activation of nonesterified fatty acids ( NEFA ) , a critical energy substrate . Loss of adipocyte OGT decreases serum NEFA levels , reduces white adipose tissue , and inhibits HSC differentiation into monocytes in HFD-induced obesity . Mechanistically , the regulated effect of adipocyte OGT on monocyte development may be mediated by NEFA-cluster of differentiation 36/fatty acid binding protein 4 ( CD36/FABP4 ) pathway in HSCs in HFD-induced obesity . These findings establish the critical role of adipocyte OGT in hematopoietic homeostasis and monocyte development .
Acquired multidrug resistance impedes the clinical application of paclitaxel . Here , we disclosed that the taxane SB-T-101141 efficiently contributed to a novel ferroptosis-like cell death of Paclitaxel-resistant and parental breast cancer cells . Functionally , SB-T-101141 facilitated the production of iron and ferrous ions along with reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , composed of lipid ROS and lipid peroxidation-derived aldehydes , including malonaldehyde ( MDA ) , and glutathione ( GSH ) depletion . Iron chelators and ROS scavengers significantly attenuated cell death , and the inorganic ROS rendered by SB-T- However , the ferroptosis-associated lipid oxide inhibitors could not block the lipid ROS and cell death triggered by SB-T- Meanwhile , via genome-scale CRISPR-Cas9 screening , we uncovered that SB-T-101141 bound to the KH-type splicing regulatory protein ( KHSRP ) to inhibit the iron-dependent expression of CDGSH iron sulfur domain 1 ( CISD1 ) associated with iron homeostasis , which consequently led to a novel type of ferroptosis of breast tumors . Moreover , RNA deep sequencing indicated that SB-T-101141 synergistically enhanced the iron-dependent activation of JNK and PERK pathways via KHSRP . Altogether , our results here demonstrate the potential clinical application of SB-T-101141 as a novel ferroptosis inducer in Paclitaxel-resistant breast cancer treatment .
Effective drugs for the clinical treatment of hepatic fibrosis have not yet been identified . Salvianic acid A ( SAA ) protective mechanisms primarily include anti-inflammation , anti-oxidative stress , and modulation of immune system function . Metabolic dysfunction is well recognized as the driver for hepatic fibrosis . However , the precise action mode and underlying mechanism of SAA in modulating hepatic metabolism to combat hepatic fibrosis remain incompletely understood . This study aimed to investigate the metabolic mechanism by which SAA improves hepatic fibrosis based on metabolomics and transcriptomics profiling . A mouse model of carbon tetrachloride ( CCl ) -induced hepatic fibrosis mouse model was established , and protective effects of SAA were evaluated through pathological characteristics . Integrated metabolomics and transcriptomics analysis revealed three key altered metabolic pathways : bile secretion , carbohydrate digestion and absorption , and regulation of lipolysis in adipocytes . SAA modulated the bile secretion pathway , dependent on reducing water channel protein Aqp1 , cholesterol synthesis enzyme Hmgcr and Na ( + ) /K ( + ) -ATPase enzyme Atp1a3 , accompanied by up-regulating metabolites glutathione and glucose levels . SAA also regulated carbohydrate digestion and absorption by decreasing the glucose homeostasis-related Akt3 , essential enzyme G6pc for gluconeogenesis/glycogenolysis and glucose transporter Atp1a3 with a concomitant increase of metabolites D-galactose , maltose , and sucrose levels . Moreover , SAA improved lipolysis in adipocytes in liver fibrosis through inhibiting lipolysis related Prkg1 , lipid transporter Fabp4 , lipolysis-associated Akt3 and increasing lipolysis mediator Adrb3 , along with upregulated levels of metabolites adenosine monophosphate and norepinephrine . In conclusion , SAA alleviates hepatic fibrosis through modulating metabolic disorders , mainly relying on the metabolic improvements of bile secretion , carbohydrate digestion and absorption and adipocyte lipolysis .
Chronic , low-grade inflammation is a key contributor to the etiology of obesity-induced insulin resistance , where pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization in obesity promotes the development of a deleterious inflammatory microenvironment . Importantly , enhanced glycolysis and lactic acid secretion by immune cells causes the extracellular space to become acidic , and metabolic acidosis has been shown to inhibit insulin signaling . In the present study , we investigated the role of G protein-coupled receptor GPR65 , an extracellular pH sensing protein , in modulating insulin resistance . We observed elevated GPR65 expression in the adipose tissue ( AT ) of metabolically healthy and unhealthy subjects with obesity , compared to their lean counterparts , which was inversely correlated with skeletal muscle and hepatic insulin resistance . Consistent with these observations , GPR65 KO mice demonstrated improved insulin sensitivity during hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp studies . Moreover , in the livers of GPR65 KO mice we observed decreased hepatic lipid content , with concomitant increases in mitochondrial activity and fatty acid beta-oxidation . GPR65 KO mice had increased Akt phosphorylation in skeletal muscle , suppressed adipose tissue proinflammatory gene expression , and depressed serum cytokine levels , collectively suggesting the anti-inflammatory effects of GPR65 depletion . This is further confirmed by observations of decreased macrophage chemotaxis towards AT in vitro , and depressed inflammatory signaling pathway activation in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells from GPR65 KO mice . Importantly , hematopoietic lineage-specific GPR65 KO mice exhibited improved whole body insulin sensitivity in clamp studies demonstrating GPR65 signaling in immune cells mediates this effect . Taken together , our data suggests that macrophage-specific GPR65 signaling contributes to inflammation and the development of insulin resistance .
Autophagy is a highly conserved cellular recycling process essential for homeostasis in all eukaryotic cells . Lipid accumulation and its regulation by autophagy are key areas of research for understanding metabolic disorders in human and model mammals . However , the role of autophagy in lipid regulation remains poorly characterized in non-model fish species of importance to food production , which could be important for managing health and welfare in aquaculture . Addressing this knowledge gap , we investigate the role of autophagy in lipid regulation using a macrophage-like cell line ( SHK-1 ) from Atlantic salmon ( Salmo salar L . ) , the world ' s most commercially valuable farmed finfish . Multiple lines of experimental evidence reveal that the autophagic pathway responsible for lipid droplet breakdown is conserved in Atlantic salmon cells . We employed global lipidomics and proteomics analyses on SHK-1 cells subjected to lipid overload , followed by treatment with rapamycin to induce autophagy . This revealed that activating autophagy via rapamycin enhances storage of unsaturated triacylglycerols and suppresses key lipogenic proteins , including fatty acid elongase 6 , fatty acid binding protein 2 and acid sphingomyelinase . Moreover , fatty acid elongase 6 and fatty acid binding protein 2 were identified as possible cargo for autophagosomes , suggesting a critical role for autophagy in lipid metabolism in fish . Together , this study establishes a novel model of lipotoxicity and advances understanding of lipid autophagy in fish cells , with significant implications for addressing fish health issues in aquaculture .
Nanostructured lipid carriers ( NLCs ) have emerged as a promising drug delivery platform in cancer therapy , offering advantages such as enhanced drug solubility , stability , and controlled release . Recent efforts have focused on utilizing NLCs for passive and active tumor targeting to improve therapeutic outcomes . This review provides a comprehensive analysis of the role of NLCs in cancer therapy , with particular emphasis on their application in passive and active targeting strategies for precision oncology . Relevant studies were selected from recent literature , focusing on NLC formulation , targeting approaches , and therapeutic applications . NLCs enhance tumor-specific drug delivery through passive targeting via the enhanced permeability and retention ( EPR ) effect and active targeting via ligand-mediated mechanisms . Lymphatic-targeting NLCs enable improved drug delivery to metastatic niches , while stimuli-responsive NLCs facilitate site-specific release under tumor-associated conditions ( e . g . , pH , enzymatic activity , redox gradients ) . Advances in lipid composition , surfactant systems , and conjugation strategies significantly influence drug loading ( DL ) , biodistribution , therapeutic efficacy , and clinical translation across various malignancies . NLCs represent a versatile and adaptable platform for precision cancer therapy . Continued optimization of formulation parameters , functionalization strategies , and clinical translation pathways is essential to fully realize their potential in targeted oncology applications .
AIMS : Atherosclerosis ( AS ) is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by lipid accumulation and inflammation . Macrophage phenotypic transformation plays a critical role in AS progression . Aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) has been proved to regulate the phenotype of macrophages . This study investigates the role and molecular mechanism of AhR activation by its endogenous ligand , 2- ( 1 ' H-indole-3 ' -carbonyl ) -thiazole-4-carboxylic acid methyl ester ( ITE ) attenuates AS . MATERIALS AND METHODS : We employed Western blotting to analyze the expression of AhR , NF-kappaB , and lipocalin-2 ( LCN2 ) . Flow cytometry and immunofluorescence staining were used to assess the phenotype of macrophages . Plaque progression was evaluated using pathological staining . Transcriptome sequencing was utilized to explore the potential mechanism by which AhR promotes macrophage phenotypic transformation . CUT&Tag-qPCR and lentivirus infection confirmed that the AhR/NF-kappaB/LCN2 pathway regulates macrophage polarization . KEY FINDINGS : Activation of AhR by ITE reduced plaque area and inhibited lipid deposition . ITE significantly increased the number of M2-like macrophages both in vivo and in vitro . Transcriptome sequencing identified LCN2 as a key target for AhR-mediated macrophage M2-like polarization . Furthermore , AhR activation suppressed the NF-kappaB/LCN2 pathway . SIGNIFICANCE : Our findings reveal that AhR promotes the macrophages to exhibit M2-like characteristics to attenuate AS by inhibiting the NF-kappaB/LCN2 pathway . These results suggest that AhR may serve as a novel therapeutic target for AS .
Seaweed polysaccharides are effectively applied in food nano-encapsulation due to their biosafety and unique physical and chemical properties . Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) of the polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) has been favored by people as an essential nutrient . However , DHA has defects such as easy oxidation , low solubility and low bioavailability . In this study , a novel DHA-loaded nanoparticle ( DNP ) , comprising O/W-type nano-encapsulation systems ( KCDNP and LAGDNP ) , was developed via the anti-solvent method using kappa-carrageenan ( KC ) and low melting point modified agar ( LAG ) as wall materials , soy lecithin ( SL ) as the emulsifier , and octanoic acid glyceride ( GTCC ) as an assistant , achieving small particle sizes ( 300-700 nm ) and high encapsulation efficiency ( up to 56 % ) . The nano encapsulated system increases the water solubility of DHA to 5-5 mg/mL ( originally <1 mug/mL ) . The particle size of NPs exhibits certain stability in different environments , and the peroxide value ( POV ) is significantly lower than that of traditional microcapsules ( POV </= 92 meq/kg after 30 days ) . The combination of infrared spectroscopy and specific detergent treatment showed that intermolecular hydrogen bonds and electrostatic interactions were the main forces to form a stable system . In vitro simulated digestion showed that DHA in NPs had a slow-release rate ( <27 % ) in the gastric phase and a release rate of over 90 % in the intestinal phase , demonstrating good sustained release function and high bioavailability . Both KCDNP and LAGDNP NPs had good stability and lipid antioxidant activity , which would increase the application of DHA in functional foods and the high value of seaweed polysaccharides .
Flower bud dormancy ensures trees can survive winter and successfully flower and reproduce in early spring , yet its activation mechanism remains elusive . In this study , four dormancy stages of the Magnolia flower bud were identified via a multidimensional analysis . Mitochondrial flashes ( mitoflash ) increased during floral bud endodormancy release , and this redox signal aligns with the dynamics of ROS compounds and the expression of antioxidant-related genes , which is expected to be a physiological signal for dormancy release . At this stage , mitochondrial energy resources depend on the oxidation of pyruvate and fatty acids . In addition , transcriptome analysis showed that genes related to sugar metabolism were mostly upregulated , and targeted lipidome analysis showed significant upregulation of metabolites related to fatty acid degradation and linoleic acid metabolism at the endodormancy-release stage , confirming that energy supply and metabolism increase at this period . Moreover , hormone content dynamics showed an opposite trend between active GA and ABA from dormancy to release . The expression of MdMYB91 is upregulated following ABA application , and it directly binds to the promoter of protein phosphatase type 2C ( MdPP2C37-like ) to negatively regulate its expression , which positions MdMYB91 as a promising regulator of dormancy by affecting ABA signaling .
Drought stress poses a major challenge to rice ( Oryza sativa L . ) production , significantly threatening global food security , especially in the context of climate change . Root architecture plays a key role in drought resistance , as rice plants require substantial water throughout their growth . The genetic diversity of rice root systems exhibits various growth patterns and adaptive traits that enable plants to endure water-deficient conditions . Harnessing this diversity to improve drought resilience demands a thorough understanding of critical root traits and adaptive mechanisms . This review explores rice roots ' anatomical , physiological , and biochemical responses to drought , emphasizing important traits such as root architecture , xylem vessel modifications , root cortical aerenchyma ( RCA ) , and water transport mechanisms . The role of biochemical regulators , including phytohormones , sugars , lipids , and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , in root adaptation to drought is also explored . Additionally , the genetic and molecular pathways influencing root development under drought stress are discussed , with a focus on key genes and transcription factors ( TFs ) such as NAC , bZIP , AP2/ERF , and others that contribute to enhanced drought tolerance . Understanding these complex interactions is crucial for breeding drought-tolerant rice varieties , ultimately improving crop productivity under challenging environmental conditions .
The change of plasma lipid species has close contacts with gastric cancer ( GC ) . However , the specific mechanism still needs to be explored further . We aim to utilize plasma proteins to decipher the association between lipid species and GC , and seek possible drug targets for GC . We performed a two-step Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis to investigate causal relationships among 179 lipid species , 4907 plasma proteins , and GC . Using summary-data-based MR and colocalization , we first examined protein-GC associations in discovery ( N = 35 , 559 ) and validation ( N = 54 , 219 ) cohorts . Subsequent MR analyses assessed lipid-GC and lipid-protein relationships , followed by mediation analysis using error propagation methods . Finally , macromolecular docking of prioritized proteins identified potential therapeutic ligands . Our MR analysis revealed causal relationships between 12 lipid species and GC , as well as 3 plasma proteins and GC . Importantly , mediation analysis demonstrated that CCDC80 protein mediates 90% ( 95% CI : 30-5% ) of the protective effect of diacylglycerol ( 16 : 1_18 : 1 ) against GC . Based on these findings , we identified valproic acid as a promising therapeutic candidate targeting CCDC80 for GC treatment . Our study demonstrates that reduced CCDC80 expression mediates the tumor-promoting effects of diacylglycerol ( 16 : 1_18 : 1 ) in GC pathogenesis . Molecular docking confirms valproic acid binds stably to CCDC80 , suggesting its therapeutic potential . These findings advance GC etiology understanding and provide a new drug development direction .
Although the relationship among lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) , LPS-binding proteins , and metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease ( MAFLD ) is widely studied , no conclusive evidence is available . In this study , we used mendelian randomization ( MR ) to study the causal relationship of LPS , LPS-binding proteins , and MAFLD . Using bidirectional two-sample MR method , we evaluated data from the genome wide association study ; for this analysis , nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , liver fat percentage , and other metabolic syndromes were employed as outcomes . Furthermore , MR analysis mainly involved the inverse variance weighted method . Heterogeneity and pleiotropy tests were also conducted . LPS was found to have a causal relationship with NAFLD , obesity , high density lipoprotein cholesterol , and TG levels . Furthermore , TG levels and LBP had significant causal relationships . This study mainly concluded that LPS is a risk factor for NAFLD , obesity , high density lipoprotein cholesterol , and TG , corroborating it ' s the LPS role in MAFLD pathogenesis . Hence , optimizing the gut microbiota using proper diet , probiotics , or fecal microbiota transplantation may help to reduce inflammation and ( IR ) , thereby improving lipid and glucose metabolism disorders . Although a causal relationship between TG and LBP was observed , further studies are required to determine a specific mechanism .
BackgroundHypertension and the APOE4 allele are known risk factors for Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) and E4 carriers show different blood pressure ( BP ) and cognitive responses to high fat feeding . ObjectiveWe investigated the influence of these factors on global cerebral blood flow ( CBF ) and four regions of interest ( ROIs ) ( angular gyrus , hippocampus , posterior cingulate , temporal lobe ) using arterial spin labeling ( ASL ) MRI in fasting state and after ingestion of heavy cream in older adults . Methods29 adults ( age in years 8 +/- 1 ) underwent baseline and 1 , 2 , 3-h ASL MRI after ingestion of 100 mL heavy cream . We used pCASL MRI with background suppression to measure CBF in ml/100 g/min . Statistical analyses included mixed-effects modeling and Pearson correlation to ascertain whether CBF changed over time and how variables influenced results . ResultsGlobal CBF decreased at 1- , 2- , and 3-h post-heavy cream , compared to time 0 ( overall change 11% , p < 01 ) ; recapitulated in 3 of 4 ROIs . Mean arterial pressure emerged as a predictive variable for both baseline and post-heavy cream CBF ( beta = -25 , 95% CI = -39 , -10 , p = 002 ) . Individuals with higher BP demonstrated reduced CBF , particularly in posterior cingulate and temporal lobe ( beta = -50 , 95% CI = -9 , -09 ; beta = -28 , 95% CI = -35 , -21 , respectively , both p < 05 ) . Examination of correlations with BP and change scores revealed that this relationship was driven largely by E4 carriers . ConclusionsCBF decreased after ingestion of heavy cream , globally and in regions known to be important in AD , and this finding was driven by E4 carriers with higher BP . FAU - Ashford , Nathaniel K
Prostaglandin reductase 2 ( PTGR2 ) regulates inflammatory lipid signaling through the metabolism of the PGE2 metabolite 15-keto-PGE . PTGR2 inhibitors have been reported but whether small molecule inactivation can recapitulate the anti-inflammatory phenotype observed in PTGR2 knockout systems has not been explored . Here , we disclose an optimized sulfonyl triazole ( SuTEx ) inhibitor of human PTGR2 that blocks biochemical activity by liganding the noncatalytic tyrosines Y100 and Y265 in the active site . Quantitative and multiplexed chemoproteomics verified covalent engagement of endogenous PTGR2 in THP1 macrophages with moderate proteome-wide selectivity . PTGR2 inactivation with the SuTEx inhibitor resulted in suppression of secreted inflammatory lipids and TNF-alpha in lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -stimulated macrophages . Collectively , our findings identify a potent covalent inhibitor of human PTGR2 that can serve as a tool compound for exploring lipid metabolism and signaling in macrophages . FAU - Founds , Michael W
Increased collagen-derived advanced glycation end products ( AGEs ) are consistently linked to painful diseases , including osteoarthritis , diabetic neuropathy , and neurodegenerative disorders . Human sensory-like neurons differentiated from the SH-SY5Y cell line gain pro-nociceptive functions when exposed to AGEs by releasing substance P and upregulating the transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 ( TRPV1 ) expression . Here , we investigated whether this receptor was functionally active and whether the glycation process sensitizes sensory neurons to capsaicin excitation . Sensory-like neuron cells were obtained from the differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells with all-trans-retinoic acid and brain-derived neurotrophic factor . Incubation with glycated collagen extracellular matrix ( ECM-GC ) simulated a pro-nociceptive stimulus . Control cells were incubated with a non-glycated extracellular collagen matrix ( ECM-NC ) . Fluo-8 Calcium Flux Assay Kit was used to assess calcium influx , which was stimulated by capsaicin . The results show that glycation increases calcium influx compared with cells treated with normal collagen , suggesting that sensory-like neurons express functional TRPV1 channels and that glycation increases capsaicin excitation . These data indicate AGEs hypersensitive sensory-like neuron cells , triggering pro-nociceptive signaling . Together , our results suggest that we established a functional model responsive to capsaicin that can be useful for screening candidates for managing painful conditions . FAU - de Assis Silva , Gessica Sabrina
Background : Ferroptosis is a nonapoptotic type of cell death characterized by an increase in lipid reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) -derived bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells ( AML-BMSCs ) support the progression and drug resistance of AML by secreting various bioactive substances , including exosomes . However , the role of BMSCs in regulating lipid metabolism and ferroptosis in AML remains unexplored . Results : Exosomes secreted by AML-BMSCs increased the expression of miR-196a-5p in AML cells . MiR-196a-5p promoted the proliferation of AML cells , reduced lipid ROS and ferroptosis , and was associated with poor prognosis in AML patients . Mechanistically , miR-196a-5p inhibited the expression level of neural precursor cell expressed developmentally down-regulated 4-like ( NEDD4L ) . Co-immunoprecipitation ( CO-IP ) analysis showed that NEDD4L was bound to long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase ( ACSL ) 3 and promoted ubiquitin-mediated degradation of ACSL3 protein . In addition , we also demonstrated that AML-BMSCs highly expressed Ras-associated binding protein 7A ( RAB7A ) , which was associated with exosomal miR-196a-5p release . Importantly , cytarabine ( Ara-C ) activated the expression of RAB7A and promoted the secretion of exosomal miR-196a-5p , which weakened the ubiquitination of ACSL3 by NEDD4L , leading to ferroptosis inhibition and Ara-C resistance in AML . Innovation : This is the first time that exosomes secreted by BMSCs ( BMSCs-exos ) have been linked to ferroptosis in AML cells , thereby expanding our understanding of the mechanism of drug resistance in AML cells . High miR-196a-5p expression reduced lipid ROS levels and ferroptosis in AML cells by inhibiting NEDD4L-mediated ubiquitination of ACSL Conclusion : This study identified a new network through which BMSCs-exos regulate ferroptosis in AML cells . We combined BMSCs and AML cells to provide new ideas for drug research targeting exosome secretion and ferroptosis . Antioxid . Redox Signal . 00 , 000- FAU - Fan , Bingjie
A novel actinobacterium , designated strain SC052 ( T ) , was isolated from rocky soil collected from Sichang Island , Chonburi Province , Thailand . Morphological and chemotaxonomic analyses indicated that strain SC052 ( T ) belongs to the genus Nocardia . The strain exhibited extensively branched substrate mycelia and produced short chains of four to six spores on the aerial mycelia . The cell wall contained meso-diaminopimelic acid , while ribose , arabinose , glucose and galactose were detected in the whole-cell hydrolysate . The identified polar lipids included diphosphatidylglycerol , phosphatidylethanolamine , phosphatidylglycerol , phosphatidylinositol , phosphatidylinositol mannoside , one unidentified glycolipid , two unidentified lipids and three unidentified phospholipids . The menaquinone was MK-8 ( H4omega-cycl ) . The major cellular fatty acids included C ( 16 : 0 ) , C ( 17 : 0 ) , C ( 18 : 0 ) , 10-methyl C ( 18 : 0 ) tuberculostearic acid , C ( 18 : 1 ) omega9c , summed feature 3 and summed feature Mycolic acids were also detected . A blast search of the 16S rRNA gene sequence revealed that strain SC052 ( T ) exhibited the highest similarity ( 7% ) to Nocardia araoensis NBRC 100135 ( T ) . Phylogenetic analysis based on the gyrB gene and phylogenomic tree construction further supported that N . araoensis NBRC 100135 ( T ) is the closest phylogenetic neighbour of strain SC052 ( T ) . Comparative genomic analyses between strain SC052 ( T ) and N . araoensis NBRC 100135 ( T ) revealed digital DNA-DNA hybridization values of 9% and average nucleotide identity values of 5% ( ANIb ) and 8% ( ANIm ) , all of which fall below the threshold used to delineate strains of the same species . Based on phenotypic and genomic analyses , strain SC052 ( T ) is proposed as a novel species within the genus Nocardia , for which the name Nocardia sichangensis sp . nov . is proposed ( =TBRC 14541 ( T ) , =NBRC 115195 ( T ) ) . FAU - Sripreechasak , Paranee
BACKGROUND : Maternal obesity is a health concern that may predispose newborns to a high risk of medical problems later in life . To understand the intergenerational effect of maternal obesity , we hypothesized that the maternal obesity effect is mediated by epigenetic changes in the CD34+/CD38-/Lin- hematopoietic stem cells ( uHSCs ) in the offspring . To investigate this , we conducted a DNA methylation centric multiomics study . We measured DNA methylation and gene expression of the CD34+/CD38-/Lin- uHSCs and metabolomics of the cord blood , all from a multiethnic cohort from Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu , Hawaii ( n=72 , collected between 2016 and 2018 ) . RESULTS : Differential methylation analysis unveiled a global hypermethylation pattern in the maternal prepregnancy obese group ( BH adjusted P < 05 ) , after adjusting for major clinical confounders . KEGG pathway enrichment , WGCNA , and PPI analyses revealed that hypermethylated CpG sites were involved in critical biological processes , including cell cycle , protein synthesis , immune signaling , and lipid metabolism . Utilizing Shannon entropy on uHSCs methylation , we discerned notably higher quiescence of uHSCs impacted by maternal obesity . Additionally , the integration of multiomics data-including methylation , gene expression , and metabolomics-provided further evidence of dysfunctions in adipogenesis , erythropoietin production , cell differentiation , and DNA repair , aligning with the findings at the epigenetic level . Furthermore , we trained a random forest classifier using the CpG sites in the genes of the top pathways associated with maternal obesity , and applied it to predict cancer versus adjacent normal sample labels in 14 Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) cancer types . Five of 14 cancers showed balanced accuracy of 6 or higher : LUSC ( 87 ) , PAAD ( 83 ) , KIRC ( 71 ) , KIRP ( 63 ) and BRCA ( 60 ) . CONCLUSIONS : This study revealed the significant correlation between prepregnancy maternal obesity and multiomics-level molecular changes in the uHSCs of offspring , particularly at the DNA methylation level . These maternal-obesity-associated epigenetic markers in uHSCs may contribute to increased risks in certain cancers of the offspring . Larger and multicenter cohort validation studies are warranted to follow up the current single-site study .
Perchlorate is an endocrine disrupting compound ( EDC ) used for its oxidative properties and has been detected in many industrialized countries in drinking water , soil , foods , and breast milk . Perchlorate competitively inhibits the uptake of iodide into the thyroid , thus reducing thyroid hormone synthesis . Perchlorate causes steatosis in the liver , alters gonadal development , and increases tubule size in kidneys in some fish models but not others . Much less is known of perchlorate ' s effects on mammals with respect to these organs . We examined the morphological effects of environmentally relevant concentrations ( 0ppm , 10ppm , and 100ppm ) of sodium perchlorate on the thyroid , liver , kidneys , testes , and ovaries on mice exposed from conception . Sexually mature female mice were randomly divided into the three treatment groups , bred , and exposed to perchlorate via water until offspring were weaned at postnatal day 36 ( P36 ) . Offspring continued exposure for 49 days at the same concentration as their mother , euthanized at P85 , whole body perfused with 4% paraformaldehyde , and target organs were dissected , sectioned , and stained using hematoxylin and eosin . Perchlorate exposed mice displayed a significant decrease in colloid area and a significant increase in follicle density , angiogenesis , and lipid accumulation within the thyroid . The liver showed a significant increase in the presence of ballooned hepatocytes and lipid accumulation . Within the kidney , we found perchlorate significantly altered nephron tubule thickness . In the testes , perchlorate exposure caused an increase in disorganized seminiferous tubules , an increase in Leydig cell nuclei area . and an increase in the size of blood vessels . There were no effects observed in the ovaries of perchlorate exposed mice compared to the control . These results indicate many commonalities among fishes and other mammalian models but also the need for understanding disparate results between model species .
Four Gram-stain-negative bacterial strains which can metabolize alkanes and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons were isolated . Strains R06ZXJ2 ( T ) and R09ZXJ6 were isolated from sediments collected in the Arctic Ocean . Strains DY715-9 ( T ) and DY716-13-1 were isolated from surface sediment samples collected by the deep-sea TV grab in the southwestern Indian Ocean . Phylogenomic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences , average nt identity ( ANI ) and digital DNA-DNA hybridization ( dDDH ) revealed that the strains formed two distinct lineages within the genus Vreelandella . Their closest relative was Vreelandella maris QX-1 ( T ) , with ANI values of 35% ( R06ZXJ2 ( T ) ) and 54% ( DY715-9 ( T ) ) and dDDH values of 00% and 80% , respectively . The pairwise ANI ( 47% ) and dDDH ( 70% ) between the two novel strains further supported their status as separate species . Phenotypic and chemotaxonomic analyses distinguished them from known Vreelandella species through differences in colony morphology , hydrocarbon degradation profiles and polar lipid compositions . The strains grew optimally at 28 degrees C and pH 0 and can degrade alkanes and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons . Based on these results , we propose two novel species : Vreelandella arctica sp . nov . ( type strain R06ZXJ2 ( T ) =MCCC 1A08467 ( T ) =KCTC 92631 ( T ) ) and Vreelandella indica sp . nov . ( type strain DY715-9 ( T ) =MCCC 1A12469 ( T ) =KCTC 92628 ( T ) ) . FAU - Weng , Yuwei
BACKGROUND : The trifoliate orange is used as rootstock in the Citrus genus ; nevertheless , propagation from cuttings is challenging due to low rooting ability . The underlying mechanism for low rooting ability is still unclear . This study aims to investigate hormonal biosynthesis and signaling cascades during Adventitious Root ( AR ) formation . METHODS AND RESULTS : We systematically compared trifoliate orange and Micro-Tom tomato cuttings grown in water . The results indicated Micro-Tom tomato cuttings produced ARs within 3 days , whereas trifoliate orange developed ARs at 21 days after cuttings ( DAC ) . The key endogenous hormones contents : indole-3-acetic acid ( IAA ) , Jasmonic acid ( JA ) , and salicylic acid ( SA ) , were significantly lower in trifoliate orange than Micro-Tom tomato cuttings at earlier stages 1 , 2 , and 3 DAC . Moreover , IAA-related and ethylene biosynthesis genes demonstrated differential expression patterns during different developmental stages between trifoliate orange and Micro-Tom tomato . Specially , the expression levels of auxin biosynthesis genes ( YUCCA6/4 , GH3/6 ) and response factor ( ARF8 ) were significantly elevated in Micro-Tom tomato cuttings , while lower in trifoliate orange cuttings at the earliest stages . Additionally , transcripts related to auxin signaling and transport ( PIN2 , LAX2 , AUX1 , TR2a , IAA11/12 ) and ethylene-related transcripts ( ACS3/7 , ASA1 , ERF003/109 ) were lower in trifoliate orange than Micro-Tom tomato cuttings during the earliest stages . CONCLUSIONS : Our results confirmed AR formation in trifoliate orange was delayed compared to Micro-tom tomato . The low level IAA hormones , significantly lower expression IAA and ethylene-related genes at the earliest stages could be attributed to the delay of AR formation in trifoliate orange cuttings .
Despite significant progress in cartilage regeneration therapeutics , several challenges remain in achieving optimal results under in vivo conditions . The present research evaluated the chondrogenic potential of poly ( glycerol sebacate ) copolymer nanofibrous scaffold ( PGS NF ) loaded with growth differentiation factor-5 incorporated sugar glass nanoparticles ( SGnP-GDF5 ) , in combination with allogenic bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( BM-MSC ) in a rabbit model . A full-thickness chondral defect of 4 mm diameter was created in the trochlear facet of the left femur of rabbits using a Brad point drill bit . PGS NF was used in group B , BM-MSC laden PGS NF in group C , SGnP-GDF5 loaded PGS NF in group D , and BM-MSC laden SGnP-GDF5 loaded PGS NF in group E . Five animals from each group were sacrificed on days 60 and 90 post-treatment . The samples were assessed based on gross morphology , histopathology , scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , and micro-computed tomography ( micro-CT ) analysis to evaluate regeneration . The SGnP-GDF5 PGS NF group and the BM-MSC laden SGnP-GDF5 PGS NF group exhibited superior cartilage regeneration , closely resembling hyaline cartilage . Histopathological evaluation revealed a columnar pattern of chondrocytes , along with an optimal concentration of proteoglycans and collagen in the extracellular matrix of the newly formed cartilage , indicating robust regeneration in both groups . Furthermore , the SEM and micro-CT analysis findings highlighted the exceptional quality of the repaired tissue in these groups . The release of GDF5 from SGnP and the expedient microenvironment provided by the NF scaffold augmented chondrogenic differentiation , resulting in superior cartilage tissue regeneration .
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) can progress to liver cirrhosis , increasing mortality risk . The study investigates the role of ferroptosis-an inflammatory cell death mechanism-in MASH and evaluates the therapeutic effects of mitoglitazone and proanthocyanidin in targeting ferroptosis to mitigate MASH progression . Forty male albino mice were divided into five groups ( n = 8 ) : normal control ( NC ) fed a standard chow diet and given 2% DMSO ; MASH group was maintained on MASH protocol ( high fructose-high fat diet ) ; mitoglitazone ( Mito ) group was kept on MASH protocol and given Mito ( 10 mg/kg/day ) ; proanthocyanidin ( Pro ) group was kept on MASH protocol and given Pro ( 150 mg/kg/day ) ; Mito + Pro co-treated group was given Mito and Pro parallel with MASH protocol , all treatments for 12 weeks . MASH induction significantly ( p < 001 ) increased liver weight , liver index , serum liver enzymes ( ALT & AST ) , serum glucose , insulin , insulin resistance ( HOMA-IR ) , lipid profile ( total cholesterol , triglycerides , LDL-C ) , ferroptosis biomarkers ( total iron , soluble transferrin receptor-1 ( sTfR1 ) , and expression of liver acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) with diffused macrovesicular severe steatosis , and inflammatory cells infiltration in liver tissues compared to NC . However , HDL-cholesterol , ferroptosis biomarkers ( liver glutathione peroxidase X4 ( GPX4 ) , and total glutathione peroxidase ( GPX ) activities and glutathione ( GSH ) content ) were reduced significantly ( p < 001 ) in MASH group compared to NC . On the other hand , Mito , Pro , and their combination significantly improved ferroptotic biomarkers ( GSH , GPX4 , sTFR1 , and total iron and ACSL-4 gene expression ) , glucose homeostasis , lipid profile , liver enzymes , and histology compared to MASH group . Combining the insulin-sensitizing properties with targeting of ferroptosis , by the co-treatment with mitoglitazone ( MSDC-0160 ) and proanthocyanidin , could be beneficial in inhibition of lipogenesis with retardation of MASH development in mice .
Trisomy of chromosome 21 , the cause of Down syndrome ( DS ) , is the most commonly occurring genetic cause of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . Here , we compare the frontal cortex proteome of people with Down syndrome-Alzheimer ' s disease ( DSAD ) to demographically matched cases of early onset AD and healthy ageing controls . We find dysregulation of the proteome , beyond proteins encoded by chromosome 21 , including an increase in the abundance of the key AD-associated protein , APOE , in people with DSAD compared to matched cases of AD . To understand the cell types that may contribute to changes in protein abundance , we undertook a matched single-nuclei RNA-sequencing study , which demonstrated that APOE expression was elevated in subtypes of astrocytes , endothelial cells , and pericytes in DSAD . We further investigate how trisomy 21 may cause increased APOE . Increased abundance of APOE may impact the development of , or response to , AD pathology in the brain of people with DSAD , altering disease mechanisms with clinical implications . Overall , these data highlight that trisomy 21 alters both the transcriptome and proteome of people with DS in the context of AD , and that these differences should be considered when selecting therapeutic strategies for this vulnerable group of individuals who have high risk of early onset dementia .
Statins play an instrumental role in reducing and managing atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) but can be difficult to tolerate due to muscle-associated side effects . There remains an unmet need for strategies that improve statin tolerance and synergize their effect on atherogenic lipids . ( - ) -Epicatechin ( Epi ) is a natural flavonoid that can improve lipid biomarkers and mitochondrial function . This study explored the capacity of Epi to augment statin ' s beneficial effects on lipid profile and ASCVD risk parameters . In total , 19 patients completed a randomized , double-blind placebo-controlled trial . The study consisted of two cohorts . Cohort 1 consisted of healthy patients with elevated low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) > 100 mg/dL and was used to determine appropriate Epi dosing . Cohort 2 consisted of patients with metabolic syndrome . Patients were randomized into statin-only ( n = 8 ; 5 in Cohort 2 ) or statin + Epi ( n = 11 ; 8 in Cohort 2 ) for 3 months . VO max and lipid biomarkers were assessed at baseline and at the end of 3 months . Final analysis included Cohort 2 only . The statin + Epi group saw significant beneficial changes in total cholesterol ( p = 002 ) and non-HDL cholesterol ( p = 007 ) . There was a significantly larger increase in HDL ( p = 037 ) and significantly greater decrease in LDL particle number ( p = 0003 ) and small LDL particle number ( p = 003 ) among the statin + Epi group compared to statin-only . Ten-year ASCVD risk was significantly lower at end-of-study for the statin + Epi arm compared to statin-only ( p < 05 ) . No VO max differences were found . This is the first proof-of-concept study to show combination therapy of a statin with Epi is safe and effective in augmenting statin-associated improvements in lipid biomarkers . Trial Registration : ClinicalTrials . gov : NCT
BACKGROUND : In March 2024 , our hospital confirmed a case of salmonella enteritis infection in the lumbar spine . The patient was admitted due to " back pain for 2 years and worsened for 3 months " . Two years ago , the patient underwent lumbar spine fusion surgery at a local hospital due to lumbar spine disc herniation . Afterwards , the patient experienced repeated swelling and pain in the lower back . After rehabilitation therapy , the symptoms of back pain did not show significant relief . Three months ago , the patient ' s symptoms of lower back pain significantly worsened . Due to " lower back pain and lower limb pain " , the patient was hospitalized in a local hospital for treatment . During hospitalization , fever , wheezing , and difficulty breathing occurred . The diagnosis was considered lumbar spine infection , and the patient was immediately transferred to the ICU for treatment , including tracheal intubation , invasive ventilator assisted ventilation . After treatment , the patient ' s breathing difficulties improved compared to before , but there was no significant relief in the symptoms of lower back pain . The patient sought further diagnosis and treatment at our hospital . The patient has had a history of tuberculosis for more than 10 years and has recovered ; a history of emphysema for more than 10 years ; history of lumbar spine fusion surgery for 2 years , with no history of other diseases . METHODS : Magnetic resonance imaging ( spinal ) , CT ( spinal ) , posterior lumbar spine 2 - 3 lesion clearance surgery under general anesthesia , pathological biopsy , bacterial culture , bacterial smear of excited lumbar spine tissue , NGS of lumbar spine tissue , and other auxiliary examinations : urine routine , blood routine , liver function , renal function , coagulation function , blood lipids , electrocardiogram . RESULTS : Magnetic resonance imaging and CT ( spine ) : Postoperative changes in the lumbar spine 3 - 5 vertebral body . Degenerative changes in the lumbar spine . Compression changes in the 9 - 12 vertebrae of the chest , with a compression degree of approximately 1/4 to 1/ Pathological examination results : Degenerated fibrocartilage and a small amount of dead bone , extensive infiltration of inflammatory cells in fibrous connective tissue , partial necrosis , and local granulation tissue formation . Blood routine +CRP ( venous blood ) : white blood cells 81 x 109/L , neutrophil percentage 8% , whole blood high-sensitivity C-reactive protein 56 mg/L , erythrocyte sedimentation rate measurement ( ESR ) : erythrocyte sedimentation rate 0 mm/hour , coagulation function : activated partial thromboplastin time 1 second , thrombin time measurement 2 second , fibrinogen detection 64 g/L , D-dimer measurement 51DDU microg/L , inflammatory markers : procalcitonin 094 ng/mL , interleukin-6 73 pg/mL . Liver function test : total protein 9 g/L , albumin 7 g/L . Renal function test : creatinine 70 micromol/L . Lumbar spine tissue bacterial culture and identification : Salmonella enteritidis , lumbar spine tissue NGS : Salmonella enteritidis . CONCLUSIONS : This article reports a case of Salmonella enteritis infection in the lumbar spine . Salmonella enteritis was quickly and accurately identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry ( MALDI-TOF MS ) , serum agglutination assay , and next-generation sequencing technology ( NGS ) . Reasonable treatment measures were adopted clinically , and the patient improved and was discharged . I hope that in the future , this case report can provide reference for the clinical diagnosis and treatment of Salmonella enteritis in special parts . Meanwhile , this case confirms that NGS has considerable application prospects in the rapid and accurate diagnosis of pathogens . FAU - Liu , Jiaqi
BACKGROUND : Accumulating evidence suggests an intimate relationship between residual cholesterol and psoriatic arthritis ( PsA ) . However , owing to confounding and reverse causality , this relationship remains unclear in observational studies . The aim of our study was to identify the causal relationship of residual cholesterol with PsA by Mendelian randomization . METHODS : In this study , we obtained genetic variants linked with residual cholesterol levels in the largest genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) on Europeans . We also selected genetic variants corresponding effect estimates on PsA risk from a large GWAS . To make the results more stable , we used six robust analytical methods for the MR analysis . The results of MR analyses in the discovery/validation set were combined using the fixed-effect model . Furthermore , we also used MR Steiger to assess the possible direction of causal estimate between them . RESULTS : In the discovery set , gene prediction found that for every 1 SD increase in residual cholesterol levels , the relative risk of PsA increased 177 ( 95% CI : 024 - 353 ) . In the validation set , we observed that for every 1 SD increase in residual cholesterol levels , the relative risk of PsA increased 185 ( 95% CI : 068 - 316 ) . In the meta-analysis , we found residual cholesterol levels could increase the risk of PsO . In addition , MR Steiger also found reverse causality between them . CONCLUSIONS : This study supports evidence of a relationship of residual cholesterol with PsA . FAU - Long , Wenying
As pivotal mediators of intercellular communication , exosomes play a crucial role in transferring cellular cargo and regulating various biological functions . These extracellular vesicles encapsulate a diverse array of biomolecules , including nucleic acids , proteins , and lipids , which can serve as biomarkers for precise monitoring of physiological and pathological processes . Remarkably , exosomes derived from stem cells are densely packed with bioactive molecules that enable precise and selective intercellular communication , effectively dampen inflammatory responses , and actively drive tissue repair and regeneration . These attributes underscore their immense potential as a next-generation , cell-free therapeutic modality . Beyond their therapeutic potential , exosomes , characterized by their nanoscale size and excellent biocompatibility , serve as natural delivery vehicles for small molecules , proteins , and nucleic acids , making them highly suitable for targeted drug delivery and precision medicine applications . In this review , we provide a comprehensive analysis of the latest advancements in the clinical applications of exosomes , encompassing both diagnostic and therapeutic perspectives . Additionally , we critically assess the current limitations hindering their clinical translation and explore the potential of engineered exosomes in treating a wide range of diseases .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the predictive value of platelet to lymphocyte ratio ( PLR ) , monocyte to high-density lipoprotein ratio ( MHR ) combined with nucleotide binding oligomeric domain like receptor protein 1 ( NLRP1 ) for the severity of premature coronary heart disease ( PCHD ) and its 2-year long-term prognosis . METHOD : A total of 132 patients with PCHD examined in our hospital from February 2020 to January 2022 were retrospectively selected as the research objects . All patients who met the criteria were divided into mild group , moderate group , and severe group according to the severity of PCHD . The patients were followed up for 2 years . Patients were then divided into good prognosis group ( without adverse cardiovascular events , n = 96 ) and poor prognosis group ( with adverse cardiovascular events , n = 36 ) . The predictive value was evaluated by ROC curve and multivariate logistic regression analysis . RESULTS : Compared with the mild group , the levels of MHR , PLR , and NLRP1 in the moderate group and the severe group were significantly increased ( p < 05 ) . The levels of MHR , PLR , and NLRP1 in the poor prognosis group were higher than the good prognosis group ( p < 05 ) . The area under the curve ( AUC ) of MHR , PLR , and NLRP1 alone and in combination for predicting the 2-year long-term prognosis of patients was 787 , 653 , 869 , and 926 , respectively . Combined markers showed superior predictive accuracy ( p < 05 ) . After adjusting for confounding factors such as treatment , comorbidities , weight , gender , and smoking , MHR , PLR , and NLRP1 were independent risk factors for severe progression and poor prognosis of PCHD ( p < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : MHR , PLR , and NLRP1 were increased in patients with higher severity of PCHD and poor prognosis . The combined detection has certain clinical guiding value for PCHD . However , this study was a single-center retrospective study with a small sample size . Thus , the results need to be further verified .
Eukaryotic lipid membranes are both compositionally complex and strongly asymmetric . Preferential lipid interactions enable coexistence between two fluid phases and an associated critical point , while bilayer asymmetry leads to leaflet-specific values for many observables-most saliently composition , but also a difference in leaflet tensions , for which we introduced the term " differential stress . " Lipid mixing thermodynamics has been extensively studied , notably in idealized ternary model systems , and interest in asymmetry has grown significantly in the past decade , but their interplay remains poorly understood . Here we propose a conceptual framework for the thermodynamics of asymmetric ternary lipid membranes . Cholesterol emerges as an essential actor playing two different roles : first , it controls lipid mixing ; second , it couples the compositional phase points of the two leaflets by achieving chemical equilibrium between them . Since differential stress can squeeze cholesterol from one leaflet into the other , this couples mechanical properties such as lateral stresses and curvature torques directly to mixing thermodynamics . Using coarse-grained simulations , we explore implications for leaflet coexistence , mechanical stability of giant vesicles , and differential stress driven phase segregation in a single leaflet . We hope this framework enables a fresh look at some persistent puzzles in this field , most notably the elusive nature of lipid rafts . FAU - Varma , Malavika
The fusion of lipid membranes progresses through a series of intermediate steps with two significant energy barriers : hemifusion-stalk formation and fusion-pore expansion . The cell ' s ability to tune these energy barriers is crucial as they determine the rate of many biological processes involving membrane fusion . However , a mechanism that allows the cell to manipulate both barriers in the same direction remains elusive , since membrane properties that the cell could dynamically tune during its life cycle , such as the lipids ' spontaneous curvatures and membrane tension , have an opposite effect on the two barriers : tension inhibits stalk formation while promoting fusion-pore expansion . In contrast , increasing the total membrane concentration of lipids with negative intrinsic curvatures , such as cholesterol , promotes hemifusion-stalk formation while inhibiting pore expansion , and vice versa for lipids with positive intrinsic curvatures . Therefore , changes in these membrane properties increase one energy barrier at the expense of the other , resulting in a mixed effect on the fusion reaction . A possible mechanism to change both barriers in the same direction is by inducing lipid composition asymmetry , which results in tension and spontaneous curvature differences between the monolayers . To test the feasibility of this mechanism , a continuum elastic model was used to simulate the fusion intermediates and calculate the changes in the energy barriers . The calculations showed that a reasonable lipid composition asymmetry could lead to a 10-20k ( B ) T difference in both energy barriers , depending on the direction from which fusion occurs . We further provide experimental support to the model predictions , demonstrating changes in the time to hemifusion upon asymmetry introduction . These results indicate that biological membranes , which are asymmetric , have a preferred direction for fusion . FAU - Shendrik , Petr
Melanoma is the most common malignant skin tumor , characterized by complexity , invasiveness , and heterogeneity . Conventional therapies often yield poor outcomes , posing significant clinical challenges . Here , a microneedle ( MN ) patch that integrates nanozyme and traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM ) for ferroptosis pathway-dependent combined therapy of melanoma is designed . To amplify therapeutic activity , a novel Au@MoS bimetallic plasmonic nanozyme ( BPNzyme ) is prepared through a simple aqueous synthesis strategy involving a two-step process . Owing to the synergy between heterostructures , this rationally designed BPNzyme exhibits significantly enhanced therapeutic characteristics , including near-infrared ( NIR ) photothermal effect , peroxidase-like activity , and glutathione peroxidase-like property , which can effectively reshape the tumor microenvironment and disrupt the redox homeostasis . Under the combined action of the TCM beta-elemene ( beta-ELE ) and NIR light , further enhancement of oxidative damage , lipid peroxidation , and glutathione peroxidase 4 expression downregulation are observed for skin tumor cells , validating the synergistic amplification of ferroptosis . Moreover , the transdermal delivery of BPNzyme and beta-ELE using the soluble hyaluronic acid MN patch effectively achieves 8% tumor growth suppression without significant systemic toxicity in vivo . These findings highlight the potential of the rationally designed BPNzyme-based MN system as a promising innovative strategy for non-invasive , efficient , and safe combination therapy of melanoma .
In the light of the precursor of sex hormones , dietary fat may affect their levels . In the present meta-analysis , we sought to compare the effects of low-fat versus high-fat diets on sex hormones and their metabolites in adults . Databases were searched up to June 2024 to identify randomized controlled trials comparing low-fat diets ( fat intake </=30% of total energy ) with high-fat diets in relation to circulating sex hormone levels . A random-effects meta-analysis was performed , incorporating data from 11 trials with 888 participants . Studies were selected based on their comparison of low-fat versus high-fat diets and the measurement of sex hormone concentrations . The meta-analysis found no significant differences in serum levels of various sex hormones between low-fat and high-fat diet groups . The hormones assessed included estradiol ( 95% CI , -71 , 10 ) , estrone ( 95% CI , -39 , 76 ) , sex hormone-binding globulin ( 95% CI , -22 , 70 ) , dehydroepiandrosterone ( 95% CI , -38 , 46 ) , testosterone ( 95% CI , -48 , 50 ) , progesterone ( 95% CI , -82 , 75 ) , and androstenedione ( 95% CI , -54 , 03 ) . We found no significant effect of low-fat diets on sex hormones compared with high-fat diets . Our findings , however , were tempered by the small number of studies and low certainty of evidence .
Acute lung injury ( ALI ) is a severe inflammatory lung disorder that requires effective therapeutic strategies . Ephedrine ( EPH ) is the main active component found in medicinal plants of the Ephedra genus and is commonly used to modulate inflammatory responses in various diseases . Hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha ( HIF1alpha ) is a subunit of hypoxia-inducible factor 1 ( HIF1 ) , which plays a critical regulatory role in cellular responses under hypoxic conditions . Moreover , the degradation pathway of HIF1alpha is regulated by the deubiquitinase Ovarian Tumour Domain-containing Ubiquitin Aldehyde Binding Protein 1 ( OTUB1 ) . The aim of this study is to investigate the therapeutic effects of EPH on ALI and its potential therapeutic mechanism . We utilised a lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced ALI mouse model and employed various methods for evaluation . Ultimately , our research findings demonstrate that EPH exhibits anti-ALI effects , with the involvement of HIF1alpha and OTUB1 in the pharmacological actions of EPH . In conclusion , our study results demonstrate that EPH exhibits anti-ALI effects and exerts its protective effects through modulation of the OTUB1 and HIF1alpha pathways . Our research findings not only lay the foundation for expanding the medicinal applications of EPH but also provide direction for seeking improved treatment strategies for ALI .
The interplay between fatty acids ( FAs ) and lipid membranes under varying pH conditions is important for deciphering fundamental cellular processes and advancing the design of responsive applications . Endowed with membrane incorporation , fatty acids ( FAs ) can induce curvature on membranes , resulting in alterations in fluidity , permeability , and stability . Despite the wide amount of research on membrane effects induced by FAs , the pH effect on their interaction behaviors remained unclear . Considering the varying pH environments in vivo , the study investigates how pH modulates the aggregation behavior of oleic acid ( OA ) and its subsequent interactions with lipid membranes . First , the critical aggregation concentration ( CAC ) was measured to determine the condition when aggregates formed . Less ordered aggregates with a lower zeta potential were observed under elevated pH conditions . These aggregates were further introduced to lipid membranes to evaluate the corresponding membrane responses using a QCM-D and fluorescence microscopy . pH shifts dramatically alter the OA protonation states of their headgroups , driving their insertion , orientation , and aggregation within membranes . Specifically , under lower pH levels , OA demonstrated an incorporation behavior into the membrane structure with increased membrane viscoelasticity , while disturbance of membrane structural integrity was observed under elevated pH levels . A transition from flatter budding protrusions to elongated tubes on the membrane was observed for incorporated OA , primarily owing to the increasing deprotonation degree that resulted in a change in the packing parameter . A stronger impact on cell viability at higher pH levels verified the membrane disruption behaviors . These findings elucidated that the protonation states of OA headgroups critically influence their membrane affinity and packing behavior , offering new perspectives for understanding membrane biophysics and designing pH-responsive delivery systems . FAU - Jiang , Dongping
We present a novel approach to quantitatively control liposomal fusion and aggregation , depending upon the surface charge and functionalities , using fluorescent gold nanoclusters ( AuNCs ) . We show that ligand-protected ultrasmall AuNCs are excellent fusogenic materials that follow renal clearance pathways after induction of liposomal fusion , especially with dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine ( DPPC ) and 1 , 2-dimyristoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoglycerol ( DMPG ) mixed in a 3 : 1 molar ratio mimicking the brain cells . AuNCs show interesting photophysics and emit from visible to near-infrared ( NIR ) regions depending upon the quantum confinement effect that is directly related to the Fermi wavelength and size of the NCs . Herein , we have synthesized orange-emitting l-glutathione ( GSH ) coated Au ( GSH ) NCs ( GSH-AuNCs ) to be applied on lipid membranes to observe the fusogenic property on small and giant unilamellar vesicles ( SUVs and GUVs ) . We noticed that the GSH-AuNCs easily attach to the surface of the DPPC liposomes and facilitate complete fusion through favorable lipid mixing . The fusion rate is higher ( 80% ) for the DPPC SUVs compared to that for the GUVs , which has been explained experimentally . On the contrary , the DMPG SUVs aggregate , with minimal lipid mixing , in the presence of the GSH-AuNCs . We noted a approximately 70% fusion efficiency for SUVs with mixed DPPC : DMPG composition ( 3 : 1 molar ratio ) . This is the first report on fusion and aggregation of liposomes guided by ligand functionalities and surface charge of AuNCs . FAU - Mukherjee , Mallika
Exosomes , nanosized extracellular vesicles carrying proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids , hold great potential in therapeutic applications . Cryopreservation , a widely used method for their preservation and transport , often causes irreversible damage . Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying biomembrane resistance to cryodamage is crucial for advancing cryopreservation techniques . In this study , we find that tetraspanin 4 ( TSPAN4 ) and other tetraspanin family proteins play an essential role in protecting exosomes from cryodamage , likely due to their role in cholesterol binding and membrane microdomain formation . Furthermore , we engineered TSPAN4-loaded exosomes , which demonstrated enhanced cryoprotection while maintaining a similar protein composition and uptake efficiency compared to wild-type exosomes . Our novel cryopreservation strategy , which does not rely on external agents , offers a promising approach for advancing the clinical translation of exosomes as therapeutic agents . FAU - Ji , Rui
BACKGROUND : Head and neck cancer ( HNC ) encompasses a heterogeneous group of malignancies originating in the oral cavity , pharynx , nasopharynx , larynx , paranasal sinuses , and salivary glands . Accumulating evidence indicates that metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) characterized by a constellation of conditions including central adiposity , hyperglycemia , dyslipidemia , hypertension , and insulin resistance , may significantly influence cancer pathogenesis and progression . RESULTS : MetS has been epidemiologically linked to elevated risk for multiple malignancies through various metabolic mechanisms involving chronic systemic inflammation , insulin resistance , and dysregulated lipid metabolism . Especially in HNC , recent studies demonstrated that MetS and metabolic imbalance conditions may contribute to carcinogenesis , disease progression , and clinical outcomes , but the exact mechanisms behind the association between excess fat accumulation and HNC risk remain unclear . Considering previous studies , pharmacological agents targeting metabolic pathways , including biguanides ( metformin ) , thiazolidinediones , sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 ( SGLT-2 ) inhibitors , and HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors ( statins ) are being investigated for potential repurposing in cancer prevention and adjuvant therapy . CONCLUSIONS : Here , we summarize the latest evidence on the relationship between MetS and HNC , highlighting the therapeutic potential of anti-diabetes drugs and anti-dyslipidemia drugs in ameliorating various pathological problems in HNC patients with MetS .
BACKGROUND : Diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain ( DPNP ) is one of the most common complications in diabetic patients . Current treatment strategies primarily focus on blood glucose control and pain relief , but they often yield limited effects . Ferroptosis , a regulated form of cell death driven by lipid peroxidation and iron imbalance , plays a crucial role in various diseases , including neuropathic pain . METHODS : In this study , we employed a combined bioinformatics and machine learning approach to identify genes most strongly associated with DPNP and ferroptosis . Subsequently , we established a DPNP mouse model via streptozotocin ( STZ ) injection and a high-glucose-induced SH-SY5Y cell injury model . ALOX15 was knocked down in the in vitro model using siRNA transfection . RESULTS : Bioinformatics analysis identified ALOX15 as a hub gene linking DPNP and ferroptosis . In both in vivo and in vitro DPNP models , ALOX15 expression was significantly upregulated and correlated with ferroptosis biomarkers . Knockdown of ALOX15 in the cellular model mitigated high-glucose-induced ferroptosis , reduced lipid peroxidation and free iron ion accumulation , and restored cell viability . CONCLUSION : In conclusion , ALOX15 contributes to the onset and progression of DPNP by promoting ferroptosis , and its knockdown effectively suppresses ferroptosis , providing a novel target and strategy for DPNP treatment .
This study aimed to develop kappa-carrageenan-based edible films enriched with resveratrol or quercetin and evaluate their potential in extending the shelf life and preserving the quality of goat meat burger patties during 14 days of storage at 4 degrees C . The quercetin film solution exhibited greater antioxidant capacity than the resveratrol-containing film , as indicated by higher total phenolic content ( 00 +/- 42 mg GAE/g ) , DPPH inhibition ( 85 +/- 06% ) , and FRAP values ( 08 +/- 37 micromol Fe ( + ) /L ) ( p < 05 ) . Incorporation of either compound decreased L ( * ) values and increased b ( * ) values ( p < 05 ) ; resveratrol reduced opacity , whereas quercetin enhanced it ( p < 05 ) . No inhibition zones were observed against Listeria monocytogenes , Escherichia coli , Staphylococcus aureus , or Salmonella Typhimurium ( p > 05 ) . SEM micrographs showed that both compounds improved the homogeneity of the film matrix . The chemical composition and water activity of the patties were not significantly affected by the treatment , storage day , or their interaction ( p > 05 ) . However , patties coated with the quercetin films had a lower pH ( pH 18 +/- 01 ) than the control ( pH 27 +/- 03 ) ( p < 05 ) and retained their initial color better . Additionally , quercetin effectively delayed lipid oxidation ( 98 +/- 94 micromol MDA/kg ) and inhibited microbial growth , maintaining TMAB counts below 10 CFU/g by Day 14 ( p < 05 ) . Overall , quercetin-containing kappa-carrageenan films demonstrated promising technological and preservative properties , offering a sustainable alternative to conventional packaging for heat-treated ready-to-eat meat products . Future research should explore strategies such as controlled release , encapsulation , and synergistic bioactive combinations to further enhance efficacy .
Microwave freeze-drying ( MFD ) has emerged as an efficient alternative in the dehydration process ; therefore , the current work attempts to introduce MFD into the production of instant dumplings . Pork-filled dumplings were treated with MFD at varying microwave power densities ( 10 , 25 , and 40 W/g ) and compared to traditional freeze-drying ( FD ) . The disparities in drying time , rehydration ratio , hardness , microstructure , hierarchical structure , and gelatinization characteristics were examined . The results demonstrated that MFD25 reduced drying time by 69% compared to FD . As the microwave power density increased from 10 to 40 W/g , the rehydration ratio increased from 55 to 83 , then decreased to 51 , and the rehydrated dumpling wrappers ' hardness decreased from 90 to 07 gf before increasing to 39 gf . The starch ' s relative crystallinity reduced from 87% to 35% and then rose to 01% , lower than FD ' s 59% . Further analysis revealed that MFD mitigated the adsorption of dumpling wrappers to the oil/water mixture , and the formation of starch-lipid complexes played a crucial role in determining the quality of dehydrated dumplings . PRACTICAL APPLICATION : Dumplings are a staple food in many cultures , particularly in China , where they are enjoyed both as a traditional dish and a convenient meal . However , dumplings contain 60%-70% moisture and require drying to extend their shelf life . Microwave freeze-drying ( MFD ) technology offers an efficient solution for dumpling production , addressing the challenges of preserving freshness and extending shelf life . Compared to traditional methods , MFD enhances drying efficiency , ensures uniform moisture removal , and reduces quality loss . This technology allows for precise control over drying parameters , improving product consistency and competitiveness in the growing ready-to-eat food market . Furthermore , MFD supports sustainability goals by reducing energy consumption and operational costs , positioning it as a key innovation for the future of food processing .
Vinegar is widely recognized for its distinctive flavor , nutritional value , and numerous health benefits , which are particularly attributed to the presence of tetramethylpyrazine ( TMP ) . TMP not only contributes to the aroma of vinegar but also exhibits significant anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and cardioprotective effects . Despite the substantial body of research on this compound , the available information regarding TMP in vinegar remains fragmented , highlighting the need for a comprehensive review . This article conducts a bibliometric analysis of publications on TMP in vinegar indexed in the Scopus database between 2010 and September The review explores the production mechanisms , modes of action , and detection methods of TMP in vinegar , in relation to the vinegar fermentation process . It provides an in-depth analysis of the key stages in TMP production , including fermentation conditions , strain selection , and post-fermentation treatments , as well as optimization strategies . Additionally , it examines the main genes involved in TMP biosynthesis and their associated regulatory networks . The review integrates recent advances in this field and outlines future research directions , with the ultimate goal of offering theoretical insights and technical guidance for the advancement of vinegar production and the development of related functional foods .
The gut microbiome ( GMB ) regulates digestion , metabolism , immunity , and energy homeostasis . This study investigates how gut microbiota integrate the regulation in the neuroendocrine and enteroendocrine systems , with a focus on G protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) in the brain-gut axis and sex differences . Germ-free ( GF ) mice exhibited increased hypothalamic expression of the anorexigenic neuropeptide and decreased expression of the negative regulator of leptin signaling . GF males had significantly lower serum leptin levels compared to conventional ( CON ) males , highlighting a potential link between the microbiome and leptin resistance . In the gut , GF mice demonstrated heightened expression of anorexigenic gut hormones , including peptide YY ( Pyy ) and cholecystokinin ( Cck ) , in addition to increased levels of G protein-coupled receptors ( GPCRs ) involved in gut hormone secretion and nutrient metabolism , particularly in females . While carbohydrate metabolism genes were upregulated in CON mice , lipid metabolism genes were predominantly higher in GF mice . These findings suggest that the gut microbiota downregulates genes involved in appetite suppression , modulates GPCRs linked to gut hormone secretion , and contributes to leptin resistance , particularly in males . This research underscores the importance of the gut microbiome in host metabolism and reveals potential molecular targets for novel treatments of metabolic diseases .
Myocarditis is strongly represented in septic patients and is associated with a higher mortality rate . Spirulina platensis ( Spi ) , a blue-green algae , has anti-inflammatory properties and can be enriched with selenium , an antioxidant essential oligoelement . In addition , phycocyanin ( PC ) , a biliprotein extract from spirulina , displays interesting anti-inflammatory and antiapoptotic effects . In this study , the objective was to determine the cardioprotective effects of Sodium selenite ( Se ) , Spi , Spi + Se ( SeSP ) and PC on LPS-induced inflammation , apoptosis , and oxidative stress parameters . H9c2 cells were co-treated with or without LPS ( 5 mug/mL ) and Se ( 5 muM ) , Spi ( 5 mug/mL ) , SeSP ( 5 muM Se + 5 mug/mL Spi ) and PC ( 1 mug/mL ) for 24 h . Inflammation was investigated by measurement of NFkappaB activation , IL-6 , and caspase 1 expression , while apoptosis was measured by Bax , Bcl-2 , and caspase-3 expression . Furthermore , GPx and SOD activities were analyzed , as well as isoprostanes and nrf-2 expression . Activation of MAPK Junk and p38 was also determined . Our results demonstrated that Se could only reduce p65 S536 phosphorylation . SeSP could limit Bax expression , while an increase in IL-6 was detected without LPS . Moreover , PC could reduce IL-6 and Caspase-1 expression and could have promising properties to decrease LPS-induced myocarditis outcomes .
Multiple signaling pathways have been implicated in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis ( UC ) , including Sphingosine Kinase 1 ( SPHK ) /Sphingosine-1-Phosphate ( S1P ) , AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) /mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) /NLR family pyrin domain-containing 3 ( NLRP3 ) , zonula occludens-1 ( ZO-1 ) , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) . We aimed to investigate the Colo protective and anti-ulcerative effects of pentoxifylline ( PTX ) in a rat model of UC . Colitis was induced by intracolonic administration of 2 mL of 3% ( v/v ) acetic acid ( AA ) . Thirty-five rats were randomly assigned to five groups ( n = 7 each ) : normal control , colitis , mesalamine , PTX , and a combination of PTX plus mesalamine . Disease activity was assessed using the disease activity index , colon weight and length measurements , histological examination , and immunohistochemical detection of caspase- Colonic tissue homogenates were analyzed for interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , S1P , SPHK , mTOR , heme oxygenase-1 ( HO-1 ) , nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) , AMPK , and STAT3 levels . Gene expression of ZO-1 and NLRP3 was also evaluated . Intracolonic AA induced marked functional , biochemical , and inflammatory damage to colonic tissue . Treatment with PTX , mesalamine , or their combination significantly attenuated these effects . Specifically , all treatments reduced levels of IL-6 , S1P , SPHK , mTOR , STAT3 , NLRP3 , and caspase-3 , while increasing levels of ZO-1 , HO-1 , Nrf2 , and AMPK . The combination treatment group exhibited near-complete restoration of normal colonic architecture , characterized by intact crypt morphology and minimal fibrosis in the lamina propria . PTX attenuated inflammation , apoptosis , and oxidative stress in colitis , supporting its potential as an adjuvant therapy in UC management .
6PPDQ , a rubber tire-derived environmental pollutant , exhibits significant hepatotoxicity . However , its hepatotoxic mechanisms remain insufficiently studied and systematically evaluated . This study integrated network toxicology , transcriptomics , and metabolomics to investigate its toxicity mechanisms . ADMETlab 0 was used to predict physicochemical properties and multiorgan toxicity . The targets related to 6PPDQ and liver injury were obtained from public databases , and a protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network was constructed to identify key targets . Meanwhile , molecular docking was performed to assess 6PPDQ ' s binding affinity to core proteins . Transcriptomics and differential gene expression analysis were performed on the livers of Kunming mice exposed to 4 mg/kg 6PPDQ to explore transcriptomic alterations , while metabolomic profiling identified disrupted metabolic pathways . Network toxicology results reveal that 6PPDQ primarily induces hepatotoxicity through apoptosis , inflammation , and lipid metabolic disturbances . Key targets , including P53 , Mapk1 , Mapk14 , Casp8 , Traf6 , Ripk1 , and Tnf , are identified , with strong binding affinities suggesting direct interactions . Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses further confirms disruptions in TNF , NF-kappa B , oxidative phosphorylation , autophagy pathways , and glycerolipid metabolism . Overall , this study provides a comprehensive mechanistic framework for 6PPDQ-induced liver injury in mice and provides a new perspective for subsequent studies on the mechanism of 6PPDQ hepatotoxicity . FAU - Li , Bo
AIM : Microglia exhibit innate immune memory , altering their responses to subsequent challenges . Consumption of high-fat diet ( HFD ) triggers innate immune responses , but the characteristics of HFD-induced microglial priming remain unclear . We aim to investigate how HFD-induced microglial priming , followed by a lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) challenge , affects brain functions . METHODS : Male Wistar rats were divided into control , unprimed , and primed groups . The primed groups received either a single LPS injection ( 5 mg/kg , intraperitoneally ) or HFD consumption for 4-8 weeks . Following the priming phase , all rats ( except controls ) were subjected to an LPS challenge with a 4- or 8-week interval . After 24 h of LPS challenge , cognition , anxiety- , and depressive-like behaviors were assessed . The brain and hippocampus were collected for further analysis . RESULTS : Both LPS- and 4-week HFD-primed groups , followed by LPS challenge , exhibited increased peripheral and brain oxidative stress , impaired neurogenesis , disrupted neurotransmitter balance , and altered glycolysis and Krebs cycle substrates . These changes also caused microglial morphological alterations , elevated C1q levels , and synaptic loss , which were associated with anxiety- and depressive-like behaviors , indicating that 4-week HFD consumption has a similar immune priming ability to a single dose of LPS injection . Extending HFD priming to 8 weeks exacerbated microglial and brain inflammation , synaptic loss , and behavioral deficits . Furthermore , prolonging the interval between priming and LPS challenge worsened inflammation and cognitive decline , suggesting the persistent effects of microglial priming . CONCLUSIONS : HFD consumption persistently and time-dependently primes microglia similar to a single LPS injection , influencing immune responses and contributing to behavioral abnormalities .
The fungus Malassezia is the most prevalent member of the human skin mycobiota , known for its lipid dependence and inability to synthesize long-chain fatty acids . Malassezia exhibits remarkable niche breadth , inhabiting soils , dust , as well as various marine environments from polar regions to deep-sea vents . The consistent presence of Malassezia in marine habitats , including those associated with marine animals , suggests that the fungus is able to grow and play a fundamental role in marine ecosystems . In this study , we explored metagenomic sequences from the Sequence Read Archive database to investigate the presence , distribution , and origins of Malassezia species within marine ecosystems , with the goal of assembling Malassezia genomes . Using various search methods , we found that up to 10% of the shotgun and amplicon data sets analyzed contained Malassezia sequences . However , the relative abundance of Malassezia in each data set was low , and there was a strong correlation between human and Malassezia sequences in marine environments , consistent with contamination . From the most Malassezia-rich data sets , we attempted to generate metagenome-assembled genomes . However , Malassezia contigs together showed low genome completeness levels , with a maximum of 2% in a sample . Phylogenetic analysis identified the contigs as closely related to human-associated Malassezia globosa and Malassezia restricta , along with Malassezia sympodialis and Malassezia pachydermatis , which were the most prevalent species across all studied environments . Our data suggest that many observations of Malassezia in the environment are derived from human sources and that widespread contamination confounds the exploration of Malassezia diversity and ecological role in the marine environment . IMPORTANCE : Malassezia is the singular fungus most associated with humans . It colonizes mammalian skin and requires host-derived fatty acids to grow . Widespread sequencing of environmental DNA surprisingly showed that Malassezia is also ubiquitous outside of mammalian hosts . Malassezia is frequently found in marine habitats where it is associated with corals , deep sea vents , diatoms , and more . Given its widespread presence , we reasoned that public metagenomic data could be used to assemble a genome sequence of an uncultured marine Malassezia . However , we found that Malassezia was ubiquitous but never abundant in marine samples and that the few metagenomes we could assemble were consistent with recent human introduction . We also found that the presence of human DNA in sequencing data sets is strongly correlated with the presence of Malassezia DNA , and while not ruling out the growth and survival of Malassezia in marine habitats , they suggest widespread contamination of public data with Malassezia . FAU - Rahimlou , Saleh
Viral infections can significantly alter cellular lipid metabolism by modulating key rate-limiting enzymes , including fatty acid synthase ( FASN ) , stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 ( SCD1 ) , and acetyl-CoA carboxylase ( ACC ) . Our previous study revealed the pivotal role of FASN in lipid droplet ( LD ) synthesis and the promotion of classical swine fever virus ( CSFV ) replication . However , the roles of the other two key enzymes in CSFV infection remain unexplored . In this study , we screened a library of 96 lipid metabolism-targeted compounds and identified an antiviral inhibitor of SCD1 , a rate-limiting enzyme in monounsaturated fatty acid synthesis , that inhibits CSFV replication . Suppressing SCD1 activity through inhibitors or small interfering RNA knockdown reduces CSFV proliferation . However , this suppression is reversed by adding SCD1 active products ( oleic acid/palmitoleic acid [OA/PA] ) , highlighting the essential role of SCD1 in CSFV proliferation . Mechanistically , CSFV non-structural protein p7 interacts with SCD1 and recruits it to the viral replication complex ( VRC ) during infection . Importantly , CSFV infection activates the endoplasmic reticulum stress pathway IRE1alpha/XBP1 , which positively regulates SCD1 expression , leading to increased production of triglyceride ( TG ) and LDs and subsequently enhancing CSFV replication . In summary , our study elucidates the critical role of SCD1 in the CSFV life cycle and highlights its potential as an antiviral target for developing new therapies against Flaviviridae . IMPORTANCEUnderstanding the virus ' s pathogenesis within the host is essential for advancing antiviral therapeutics and vaccine development . Previous studies have demonstrated that classical swine fever virus ( CSFV ) leverages host lipid metabolic rate-limiting enzymes , such as fatty acid synthase ( FASN ) , to support viral replication . This study identified stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 ( SCD1 ) , a key enzyme in monounsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis , as a novel regulator of CSFV replication . Mechanistically , the viral non-structural protein p7 mediates the recruitment of SCD1 to the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , facilitating the formation of viral replication complexes ( VRCs ) . Additionally , our findings showed that viral infection activated the ER stress pathway IRE1alpha/XBP1 , which upregulated SCD1 expression and promoted the synthesis of triglycerides ( TG ) and lipid droplets ( LDs ) . This study provides insights into the metabolic reprogramming triggered by viral infection to support replication and underscores the intricate crosstalk between ER stress and lipid metabolism during CSFV infection . These findings have significant implications for identifying novel antiviral targets against CSFV . FAU - Bai , Ji-Shan
Carnivorous plants from the order Caryophyllales co-opted plant phytohormones from a group of jasmonates to regulate digestive enzyme activity . However , not all genera of carnivorous plants have been thoroughly explored , and the digestive physiology of Australian carnivorous rainbow plants of the genus Byblis ( order Lamiales ) is poorly understood . Here , we investigated the composition of digestive enzymes in the secreted fluid of Byblis filifolia using LC/MS , measured enzyme activity , and analysed tissue phytohormone levels after experimental feeding with fruit flies and coronatine application . Several hydrolytic digestive enzymes were identified in the secreted digestive fluid , the levels of which clearly increased in the presence of insect prey . However , in contrast to the sundew Drosera capensis , endogenous jasmonates do not accumulate , and coronatine , a molecular mimic of jasmonates , is unable to trigger enzyme secretion . Our results showed that B . filifolia is fully carnivorous , with its own digestive enzyme repertoire . However , in contrast to carnivorous genera from the Caryophyllales order , these enzymes are not regulated by jasmonates . This indicates that jasmonates have not been repeatedly co-opted to regulate digestive enzyme activity during the evolution of carnivorous plants .
BACKGROUND : Edible oils often are included in recipes for home-prepared pet diets to supply essential fatty acids , but there may be discrepancies between database values and oil profiles . Furthermore , storage time and conditions influence quality . HYPOTHESIS/OBJECTIVES : Determine the fatty acid profiles of commonly used oils and characterize fatty acid oxidation under recommended storage conditions . SAMPLES : Fourteen products were purchased and stored according to label instructions , representing 2 brands each of walnut , corn , canola , and flaxseed oils , and 3 each of safflower and sunflower oils . METHODS : Samples were collected at baseline and at 6 and 12 months and stored at -80 degrees C until analysis . Aliquots were analyzed for fatty acid profile at baseline and 12 months , and at all 3 timepoints for free fatty acidity , peroxide value , and induction time . RESULTS : Linoleic acid concentrations exceeded the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ) Food and Nutrient Database for Dietary Studies ( FNDDS ) values except for 2/3 sunflower and 1/3 safflower oil samples . Peroxide value was static for 3/14 products and significantly increased at 6 or 12 months for 11/14 products . Induction time was static for 2/14 products and significantly decreased at 6 or 12 months for 12/14 products . CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE : Sunflower and safflower oils are not reliable sources of linoleic acid . Cold storage appeared to better maintain oil quality . Oils for home-prepared pet foods should be carefully selected to ensure nutritional adequacy and refrigerated to maintain quality , especially those high in polyunsaturated fatty acids , high omega-6 : omega-3 ratios , or both .
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is one of the most common chronic liver diseases , driven by diverse genetic and environmental factors . Extensive human genetics ' studies have indicated that HSD17B13 is emerging as a promising therapeutic target for MASH . However , no in vivo efficacy of a HSD17B13 inhibitor has been reported . Herein , multiparameter optimization studies led to the discovery of a highly potent and selective HSD17B13 inhibitor 32 ( IC = 5 nM ) , which demonstrated significantly better liver microsomal stability and pharmacokinetic profile compared to BI- Moreover , the unique liver-targeting profile of compound 32 provided greater potential for the treatment of MASH . In multiple mouse models , compound 32 exhibited better anti-MASH effects compared to BI- Further mechanistic studies indicated that compound 32 regulated hepatic lipids by inhibiting the SREBP-1c/FAS pathway . Based on these positive results , HSD17B13 inhibitor 32 is worthy of further evaluation as the first pharmacological tool with robust in vivo anti-MASH activity . FAU - Chen , Lianru
Chronic hyperglycemia impairs mitochondrial function of beta cells . Changes in mitochondrial function preceding a negative glucose effect have not been fully characterized , nor interactions with ketones . To compare effects on beta cell mitochondrial function by short and longer exposures to elevated glucose and interactions with ketones oxygen consumption rate ( OCR ) was measured in intact clonal beta cells by an OROBOROS and in rat islets by a Seahorse instrument . Proteins ( subunits ) of mitochondrial complexes ( C ) were measured by immunoblotting . ATP and ROS were measured in islets . In INS-1 832/13 cells , overnight exposure to 27 vs . 11 mm glucose increased OCR and uncoupled mitochondrial respiration . These effects vanished when prolonging the exposure time of elevated glucose . C1 was decreased after two days of culture with high glucose . Interactions with racemic 5 and 20 mm beta-hydroxybutyrate ( BHB ) were not detected . In islets , culture overnight at 27 vs . 11 mm glucose enhanced basal OCR . No decrease in glucose-induced OCR was seen after prolonging 27 mm glucose for two days . Interactions with 5 mm BHB were not detected . Prolonged exposure to 27 mm glucose enhanced basal ECAR ( extracellular acidification rate ) and an ECAR response to acute elevation of glucose . C1 and 3 and 4 were decreased after two days of 27 vs . 11 mm glucose . ATP levels were decreased at this time-point and extracellular ROS increased . High glucose time-dependently affects mitochondrial function in clonal beta cells and islets . C1 was uniformly decreased . Interactions with BHB were not detected . FAU - Hals , Ik
This study mainly explored the influence of tacrolimus in association with mycophenolate mofetil ( MMF , CellCept ) in treating steroid-resistant nephrotic syndrome ( SRNS ) children . A total of 124 SRNS children were chosen and separated into observation group and control group . The control group received basic treatment and tacrolimus treatment . In contrast , the observation group received MMF in addition to basic and tacrolimus treatments . The results showed that the observation group presented higher total effective rate , better improvements of 24 h urinary protein quantification , than the control group . Albumin and cholesterol levels , lower fibrinogen level , lower blood urea nitrogen , serum creatinine , along with cystatin C levels , better improvements of interferon gamma , interleukin-2 and interleukin -13 levels , and lower total occurrence of adverse reactions . We conclude that Tacrolimus combined with MMF can effectively reduce inflammation along with improve the renal function of SRNS children .
Copper ( Cu ) is a vital dietary element for both humans and animals and is widely supplemented in food . However , excessive consumption of this trace element can adversely affect the overall well-being . Previous studies have demonstrated that long-term Cu intake can lead to severe hepatotoxicity . The underlying mechanism by which Cu induces disturbances in hepatic energy metabolism through modulation of mitochondria-lipid droplet ( LD ) contacts , however , is not known . In this study , we found that Cu exposure significantly disrupted the interaction between mitochondria and LDs , leading to the downregulation of perilipin 2 ( PLIN2 ) , perilipin 5 ( PLIN5 ) , synaptosomal-associated protein 23 ( SNAP23 ) , diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 ( DGAT2 ) , and caveolin-1 ( Cav-1 ) proteins in chicken livers . Mechanistically , we demonstrated that Cu exposure-induced dynamin-related protein 1 ( DRP1 ) protein activation disrupted mitochondria-LD contacts by regulating PLIN DRP1 knockdown and PLIN2 overexpression efficiently promoted the mitochondria-LD contacts , alleviating Cu-induced LD accumulation in chicken primary hepatocytes . However , PLIN2 knockdown significantly exacerbated the mitochondria-LD contact disorder induced by Cu exposure . Moreover , PLIN2 knockdown dramatically reversed the ability of DRP1 knockdown to promote mitochondria-LD contacts , while overexpression of PLIN2 had the opposite effect . Overall , our study revealed that the DRP1-PLIN2 axis regulates the connections between mitochondria and LDs under Cu exposure , which may provide a new perspective on Cu exposure-induced lipid metabolism disorders in hepatocytes . FAU - Li , Quanwei
BACKGROUND : A strong correlation exists between low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( non-HDL-C ) , and apolipoprotein B100 ( apoB ) . However , evidence suggests that LDL-C and non-HDL-C may underestimate apoB , potentially obscuring residual cardiovascular risk . Furthermore , interactions between apoB and lipoprotein ( a ) are implicated in atherogenesis . This study sought to determine whether discordance between apoB , LDL-C , non-HDL-C , or lipoprotein ( a ) is associated with 20-year atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) risk within a cohort of apparently healthy adults . METHODS : A cohort of 3042 CVD-free adults residing in greater Athens , Greece , was recruited in A 20-year follow-up was conducted in 2022 , comprising n = 2169 participants , of which n = 1988 had complete data for cardiovascular disease incidence . Discordance between biomarkers was defined based on recommended lipid thresholds . Cox proportional hazards models were used to assess the association between discordant/concordant biomarker pairs and 20-year ASCVD risk . RESULTS : ApoB strongly correlated with LDL-C and non-HDL-C , though concordance was limited . Increased 20-year ASCVD cumulative incidence with elevated apoB levels , beyond LDL-C , non-HDL-C , and lipoprotein ( a ) . Discordance analysis revealed that elevated apoB independently predicted increased 20-year ASCVD risk , regardless of non-HDL-C and lipoprotein ( a ) . However , this effect was observed only on concomitantly elevated LDL-C levels . Incorporating apoB into the assessment of traditional modifiable risk factors elucidated part of the previously residual 20-year ASCVD risk , especially in individuals with elevated LDL-C , non-HDL-C , or lipoprotein ( a ) levels . CONCLUSIONS : ApoB may be a superior biomarker for assessing long-term ASCVD risk , indicating that apoB-containing lipoprotein particle number , rather than cholesterol content , is a more robust predictor of ASCVD risk .
Astrocytic neuroinflammation contributes as a key player in neurodegenerative diseases . Capsazepine is a frequently used transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 ( TRPV1 ) inhibitor ; however , its effects , as well as the target , on inflammation remain controversial . This study examines the anti-inflammatory actions of capsazepine and explores mechanisms beyond TRPV1 inhibition . By assessing astrocytic inflammation in vitro and in vivo experiments , capsazepine was found to inhibit astrocyte activation and attenuate neuroinflammation , with reduced levels of interleukin-6 and complement When utilizing TRPV1 deficient models , no significant decrease was observed in the anti-inflammatory effects of capsazepine , suggesting there could be alternative targets in addition to TRPV Further investigations used drug affinity responsive target stability analysis , siRNA knockdown , cellular thermal shift assay , and molecular docking to hunt for new targets . Syntaxin 7 , a modulator in cytokine trafficking and phagosome maturation , was identified as a crucial target to interact with capsazepine in the inhibition of astrocytic inflammation . This study verifies the anti-inflammatory effects of capsazepine and identifies Syntaxin 7 as a potential novel therapeutic target for treating neuroinflammation .
In recent years , consumers have shown a growing interest in purchasing welfare-friendly livestock products . Environmental enrichment has emerged as an effective approach to enhancing animal welfare . Based on this , this study aims to investigate the effects of welfare housing systems incorporating environmental enrichment on growth performance , meat quality , and intestinal health in rabbits . Rabbits were assigned into three groups : Cage group ( Cage ) , Pen group ( Pen ) , and Pen + environmental enrichment material group ( PE ) . The Pen group exhibited a lower average daily weight gain and a higher feed conversion ratio . However , the meat color and nutrient content of the leg muscles were improved in both the Pen and PE groups to varying extents . Furthermore , fatty acid beta-oxidation in the leg muscles was elevated in the Pen group , resulting in reduced lipid deposition . Additionally , both the Pen and PE groups displayed altered cecal microbiota composition and increased short-chain fatty acids content , contributing to enhanced intestinal health through the activation of G protein-coupled receptors . In conclusion , these findings suggest that the two welfare housing systems can improve meat quality and intestinal health . This study offers a theoretical foundation for welfare-oriented rabbit farming and the production of healthier rabbit meat to meet consumer demands .
Small interfering RNAs ( siRNAs ) are a proven therapeutic approach for controlling gene expression in the liver . Expanding the clinical potential of RNA interference requires developing strategies to enhance delivery to extra-hepatic tissues . In this study , we examine inhibiting transthyretin ( TTR ) gene expression by siRNAs in the eye . Anti-TTR siRNAs have been developed as successful drugs to treat TTR amyloidosis . When administered systemically , anti-TTR siRNAs alleviate symptoms by blocking TTR expression in the liver . However , TTR amyloidosis also affects the eye , suggesting a need for reducing ocular TTR gene expression . Here , we demonstrate that pyrimidine C5- and 2 ' -O-linked lipid-modified siRNAs formulated in saline can inhibit TTR expression in the eye when administered locally by intravitreal injection . Modeling suggests that length and accessibility of the lipid chains contribute to in vivo silencing . GalNAc-modified siRNAs also inhibit TTR expression , albeit less potently . These data support lipid-modified siRNAs as an approach to treating the ocular consequences of TTR amyloidosis . Inhibition of TTR expression throughout the eye demonstrates that lipid-siRNA conjugates have the potential to be a versatile platform for ocular drug discovery .
Living cells can adapt their shape in response to their environment , a process driven by the interaction between their flexible membrane and the activity of the underlying cytoskeleton . However , the precise physical mechanisms of this coupling remain unclear . Here we show how cytoskeletal forces acting on a biomimetic membrane affect its deformations . Using a minimal cell model that consists of an active network of microtubules and molecular motors encapsulated inside lipid vesicles , we observe large shape fluctuations and travelling membrane deformations . Quantitative analysis of membrane and microtubule dynamics demonstrates how active forces set the temporal scale of vesicle fluctuations , giving rise to fluctuation spectra that differ in both their spatial and temporal decays from their counterparts in thermal equilibrium . Using simulations , we extend the classical framework of membrane fluctuations to active cytoskeleton-driven vesicles , demonstrating how correlated activity governs membrane dynamics and the roles of confinement , membrane material properties and cytoskeletal forces . Our findings provide a quantitative foundation for understanding the shape-morphing abilities of living cells .
PURPOSE : The literature often includes studies on cholesterol perception and lipid-lowering medication ( LLM ) use with patients who have used or discontinued LLM for primary or secondary prevention . With the exponential rise in patients needing LLM each year , understanding their knowledge and perceptions of cholesterol and these drugs is crucial . For this reasons , we aimed to determine the perception and knowledge of treatment-naive participants about cholesterol and LLM . PATIENTS AND METHODS : This cross-sectional study was conducted in Turkey between August 2020 and August A self-designed online survey developed from literature sources was used to determine the level of knowledge and perception of cholesterol , LLM and influencing factors . RESULTS : A total of 2062 respondents completed the survey , which was sent to the participants via an online link . The most common sources of information about cholesterol and lipid-lowering medications were medical staff ( 71% ) media ( 4% ) and scientific publications ( 3% ) . The most three common factors affecting the participants ' perception of cholesterol and LLM were medical staff ( 6% ) , media ( 7% ) , and scientific publications ( 6% ) . CONCLUSION : Our study revealed that participants have some inaccurate and incomplete information about cholesterol and LLM . Medical staff and the media emerged as the primary sources of information and crucial influences on most participants ' perceptions of cholesterol and LLM .
Members of the diverse family of sphingolipids ( SPL ) , such as ceramides ( Cer ) and sphingomyelins ( SM ) , are well-known structural and bioactive signaling molecules . A key SPL family member and critical signaling lipid , sphingosine 1-phosphate ( S1P ) , is carried in blood primarily by its " chaperone " protein apolipoprotein M ( ApoM ) on high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) particles . S1P has been shown to regulate diverse biological pathways through specific G protein-coupled receptor signaling ( GPCR ) that can be modulated based upon chaperone : ApoM or albumin . Blood concentrations of ApoM itself are altered in human diseases such as coronary artery disease , type I and II diabetes , and systemic lupus erythematosus , diseases that have also been linked to changes in other SPL species ; however , studies measuring molecules only in blood while neglecting lymph concentrations may be excluding clues to the physiology affected by multiorgan metabolic pathways . Comparing SM , dihydroSM , Cer , dihydroCer , alpha-hydroxy Cer ( alphaOHCer ) , Cer 1-phosphate ( C1P ) , sphingosine ( Sph ) /dihydroSph , S1P/dihydroS1P , and diacylglycerol ( DAG ) concentrations in wild-type mouse blood and lymph plasmas with those in mice lacking ApoM and mice expressing a human transgene of ApoM , we describe unanticipated differences between the blood and lymph sphingolipidomes and their ApoM-responsive lipid species . Of the 100 unique SPL species targeted , 97 were identified in blood and 94 in lymph . Some of the most striking findings were in lymph , where we identified alphaOHCer as a previously unidentified major SPL constituent . This report provides a unique resource and starting point for further investigations into the contributions of the circulating sphingolipidome to homeostasis and disease .
Epileptic seizures often track with time of day and/or changes in vigilance state ; however , specific molecular and cellular mechanisms driving the ictal and temporal associations are lacking . Astrocytes are a type of glial cell known to modulate neuronal excitability and circadian rhythms . These cells also abundantly express fatty acid-binding protein 7 ( Fabp7 ) , a clock-driven molecule necessary for normal sleep regulation , lipid signaling , and gene transcription . To determine whether Fabp7 influences time-of-day-dependent seizure susceptibility , we tested male C57/BL6N wild-type ( WT ) and Fabp7 knockout ( KO ) mice using electroshock seizure threshold . Compared with WT mice , Fabp7 KO mice exhibited markedly higher general- and maximal-electroshock seizure thresholds ( GESTs and MESTs , respectively ) during the dark phase , but not the light phase . We used RNA-seq to determine the role of Fabp7 in activity-dependent gene expression in nocturnal seizures and compared genome-wide mRNA expression in cortical/hippocampal tissue collected from WT-MEST and Fabp7 KO-MEST mice with WT-SHAM and Fabp7 KO-SHAM mice during the dark period . Whereas significant differential expression of immediate early genes was observed in WT-MEST compared with WT-SHAM , this effect was blocked in the Fabp7 KO-MEST versus Fabp7 KO-SHAM . Gene ontology and pathway analysis of all groups revealed significant overlap between WT-MEST : WT-SHAM and Fabp7 KO-SHAM : WT-SHAM comparisons , suggesting basal mRNA levels of core molecular and cellular mechanisms in the brain of Fabp7 KO approximate postictal WT brain . Together , these data suggest that Fabp7 regulates time-of-day-dependent neural excitability and that neural activity likely interacts with astrocyte Fabp7-mediated signaling cascades to influence activity-dependent gene expression .
The author of the publication drew attention to factors that threaten the safe performance of a military aviation mission . The aim of the article is to present an effective method for diagnosing psychomotor skills , monitoring physical fitness and selecting pilots of highly maneuverable aircraft , as well as selected exercise markers of high diagnostic value for assessing the adaptation ( efficiency ) of the pilots ' body . First , the focus was on the practical direction of preventing aviation accidents . Based on many years of research on cadet pilots , the author developed the Aviation-Synthetic Efficiency Test ( ASET ) , which aims to select candidates for aviation and assess the performance of an anti-overload maneuver involving appropriate skeletal muscles . The test was used to monitor the training process in order to obtain an optimized physical load on the body . The factor strengthening the implementation of an effective pilot training process was the assessment of the behavior of the WS lipid index as confirmation of the training effects in the G-strain centrifuge test . The author attributes special diagnostic value to lipid indices for pilots of highly maneuverable aircraft . A diagnostic and training device was developed and used to monitor the special training process in terms of assessing the psychomotor level of pilots in extreme conditions of the pilot ' s work environment . Studies were also conducted in the special training process on special aviation gymnastics devices ( SAGI ) . Physiological and biochemical indicators were used in these studies , emphasizing the high diagnostic value in relation to the physical fitness and health of pilots . The aspects of the research presented in this article contribute to the pilots ' compliance with the balance between the performance of tasks and their physical capabilities , which undoubtedly increases flight safety .
BACKGROUND : We aimed to investigate the relationship between pre-delivery serum b-human chorionic gonado - tropin ( b-HCG ) , fibrinogen ( FIB ) , and homocysteine ( HCY ) with hypertensive disorder complicating pregnancy ( HDCP ) . METHODS : This was a case-control study . 200 HDCP patients and 150 normal pregnant women were selected as study subjects . Fasting cubital venous blood samples were collected to measure serum triglycerides ( TG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , and lowdensity lipoprotein ( LDL ) , as well as b-HCG , FIB , and HCY levels . Pearson correlation analysis examined the relationship between b-HCG , FIB , HCY , and HDCP . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis evaluated the predictive value of these indicators for HDCP . Multiple logistic regression analysis identified risk factors ( RFs ) for HDCP . RESULTS : Serum TG , TC , HDL , LDL , FIB , b-HCG , and HCY were greatly elevated in the HDCP group versus the control group ( CG ) ( P<05 ) . Serum b-HCG , FIB , and HCY showed notable positive correlations with HDCP ( r=935 , 547 , 811 ; P<05 ) , and the areas under the ROC curve ( AUC ) for predicting HDCP based on serum b-HCG , FIB , HCY , and their combination were 743 , 659 , 801 , and 886 , respectively ( P<05 ) . Lipid indicators and serum levels of FIB , b-HCG , and HCY were RFs for HDCP . CONCLUSIONS : Pregnant women with HDCP exhibited markedly elevated serum lipid levels and FIB , b-HCG , and HCY levels before delivery , which can serve as predictive indicators for HDCP .
Sphingosine kinase 1 ( SK1 ) produces sphingosine-1-phosphate , a bioactive lipid implicated in cancer progression and other diseases . Despite its clinical relevance , the structural and dynamic basis of SK1 regulation and inhibition remains poorly understood . Using an integrated spectroscopic and computational approach , we uncover conformational transitions that govern substrate entry , catalysis , and inhibitor binding . Phosphorylation of Ser225 triggers regulatory loop rearrangements and salt bridge reshuffling , priming SK1 for membrane engagement and catalytic activity . We identify a previously uncharacterized catalytic intermediate featuring a distinct conformation with a highly dynamic lipid-binding loop 1 ( LBL-1 ) , sensitive to potent inhibitors such as PF- This inhibitor locks SK1 in an inactive state by restricting LBL-1 dynamics and globally stabilizing a non-catalytic conformation . Notably , SK1 forms functionally distinct dimers stabilized by ligand or membrane interactions , revealing a dynamic , multilayered regulatory mechanism governed by structural flexibility . These findings define a novel inhibitory mechanism and offer a structural framework for developing next-generation SK1-targeted therapeutics . FAU - Abd Emami , Baharak
Aging disrupts physiological and behavioral homeostasis , largely driven by one-carbon metabolism , mitochondrial dysfunction , energy sensing , and metabolic imbalance . To elucidate the roles of conserved metabolic , energy sensing , and mitochondrial genes in age-related decline , we employed genetic manipulations in vivo using Drosophila melanogaster models , in a cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous manner . By using panneuronal and indirect flight muscle ( IFM ) - specific drivers , we assessed the impact of gene knockdown or overexpression on sleep-circadian rhythms , locomotion , and lipid metabolism in a cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous manner to address bidirectional neuro-muscle communications . Knockdown of genes such as SdhD , Marf , and Gnmt leads to decrease in flight performance especially in 6 weeks with both the drivers . Which demonstrates cell-autonomous and non-cell autonomous effects of these genes . Negative geotaxis with panneuronal knockdown of Adsl , Gnmt , SdhD , Marf genes showed reduced locomotor performance in age-dependent manner consolidating their non-cell autonomous role and neuro-muscular interaction . Whereas mAcon1 , LSD2 , Ampkalpha , Ald , Adsl genes showed reduced flight performance with only IFM specific driver emphasizing the cell-autonomous role . Panneuronal knockdown of Ald , GlyP , mAcon1 , and Gnmt genes showed increased total sleep , reduced activity , while Adsl and Ogdh knockdown led to sleep fragmentation , in a mid-age suggests cell autonomous impact . Functional analysis of AMPK signaling via overexpression and knockdown of Ampkalpha , as well as expression of the yeast ortholog SNF1A and its kinase-dead mutant , revealed kinase-dependent , age- and tissue-specific modulation of sleep and activity rhythms . Lipid analysis showed that panneuronal overexpression of Ampkalpha altered lipid droplet number and size in the brain , indicating disrupted lipid homeostasis during aging . These findings establish Ampkalpha as a central regulator of behavioral and metabolic aging , linking neuronal energy sensing , motor function , and lipid dynamics , and offer mechanistic insights into tissue-specific metabolic regulation with potential relevance for interventions targeting age-related decline and neurodegeneration . FAU - Pasam , Elizabeth S
BACKGROUND : Familial hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) is a genetic disorder that significantly increases low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels . Statins are commonly prescribed to minors to improve overall cardiovascular outcomes . Despite their well-documented efficacy in lowering lipid levels , statins can cause adverse side effects , including myopathy and , in rare cases , rhabdomyolysis . CASE DESCRIPTION : A 17-year-old male adolescent presented with acute muscle pain in both arms . The patient had a history of FH and was undergoing treatment with rosuvastatin . Laboratory results revealed a marked elevation in creatine kinase ( CK ) , myoglobin , cystatin C , and hepatic enzymes . Urinalysis did not show any abnormalities . Given the suspicion of statin-associated rhabdomyolysis , rosuvastatin was promptly discontinued . Further , the patient was administered intravenous fluids ( 3 L/m/day ) for renal protection . Nine days after admission , levels of CK , myoglobin , and creatinine returned to normal . Hepatic enzymes and cystatin C remained elevated . The patient was advised to discontinue statin therapy for a total of 6 weeks . For further treatment , the patient was referred to a pediatric lipid clinic . CONCLUSIONS : While the use of statins is generally safe , rare side effects including rhabdomyolysis must be detected and therapy promptly initiated to prevent long-term health effects . Patients that experienced statin-associated rhabdomyolysis should be monitored closely and referred to a pediatric lipid clinic for further treatment .
DGAT-1 ( Diacylglycerol Acyltransferase-1 ) deficiency is an autosomal recessive disorder which causes severe impairment in lipid absorption . We report a case of an infant suffering from persistent diarrhea starting at the age of four weeks . Further investigations identified DGAT-1 deficiency as underlying cause . A treatment plan was developed which included a very-low fat diet administered as infant formula , essential fatty acid supplementation , C8 medium chain triglycerides- and fat-soluble vitamin supplementations . The patient was put into full remission after administration of the treatment plan and weight curves normalized at the 50th percentile at the age of 24 months . Intermittent episodes of loose stools were due to an excessive intake of fructose via extensive fruit consumption . DGAT-1 deficiency is a rare genetic disease which leads to congenital diarrhea and is especially dangerous in infancy . Our treatment plan put the patient into full remission showing that C8 MCT oil should be preferred over treatment with C8/C10 mixtures .
This study investigated the effects of three oligosaccharides , stachyose ( STA ) , raffinose ( RAF ) , and sucrose ( SUC ) , all at 16 % w/w , on the physicochemical properties of wheat starch subjected to multiple freeze-thaw ( FT ) cycles . The findings revealed that all three oligosaccharides reduced starch particle size and mitigated the degradation of endogenous nutrients , such as proteins and lipids , typically induced by repeated FT treatments . Additionally , the oligosaccharides decreased the content of amylose , crystallinity and short-range molecular order of starch , as well as the gelatinization enthalpy ( DeltaH ) and rapidly digestible starch . They also suppressed granule swelling , leading to reductions in peak , breakdown , and setback viscosities , thereby enhancing the shear resistance of the starch paste . Among the tested oligosaccharides , SUC was the most effective in preserving starch integrity and nutrient content , whereas STA had a greater capacity to reduce crystallinity and stabilize viscosity parameters . These results provide a theoretical foundation for optimizing the use of oligosaccharides in frozen wheat starch-based food products .
BACKGROUND : As is well known , lipids play an important role in cellular metabolism and storage , and they have a significant impact on signal transduction during the growth and metastasis of cancer cells . Our study aimed to evaluate the role of the preoperative plasma lipid profile , including triglycerides ( TG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) in prognosis , and to develop nomograms to predict overall survival ( OS ) and disease-free survival ( DFS ) based on the preoperative plasma lipid profile for patients with lung adenocarcinoma ( LUAD ) after complete resection . METHODS : Clinical data , including preoperative plasma profile levels , were retrospectively collected and reviewed in 304 patients with LUAD who underwent radical lung resection between 2016- Approval of the study protocol was obtained from the Academic Ethics Committee of Shaoxing People ' s Hospital , and follow-up on all patients was completed in the clinic or by telephone . The OS and DFS were assessed by the Kaplan-Meier method and the Cox proportional hazards regression model . Clinicopathological factors and preoperative plasma lipid profile factors were integrated to construct nomograms . Calibration plots and concordance indexes ( C-indexes ) were used to evaluate the accuracy and discrimination of the models . RESULTS : TC level was significantly related to the sex of the patient ( P=001 ) , history of smoking ( P=04 ) , and death ( P=007 ) , and the HDL-C level was significantly associated with sex ( P=004 ) , history of smoking ( P=02 ) , tumor recurrence ( P=050 ) , and death ( P=002 ) . TC </=58 and HDL-C </=01 were deemed as independent preoperative risk factors for OS , and HDL-C </=01 was an independent preoperative risk factor for DFS . In the multivariate analyses involving OS and DFS , an increased TC level [hazard ratio ( HR ) , 504 ; 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 324-782 , P=002] was significantly associated with better OS . Additionally , a decreased HDL-C level was significantly associated with worse OS ( HR , 665 ; 95% CI : 443-999 , P=049 ) and DFS ( HR , 619 ; 95% CI : 420-912 , P=02 ) . Preoperative plasma lipid profile factors were involved in constructing the nomograms for predicting 1- , 3- , and 5-year OS and DFS . The C-index of the final nomograms was higher than that of the tumor node metastasis ( TNM ) staging system for predicting OS ( 735 vs . 689 ; P=009 ) . The performance of the nomograms for predicting OS ( 699 vs . 735 ; P=03 ) and DFS ( 659 vs . 700 ; P=002 ) was significantly lower when preoperative plasma lipid profile factors were excluded . These findings indicated that TC and HDL-C levels are associated with the prognosis in patients with LUAD . CONCLUSIONS : In patients with LUAD , increased TC levels may predict better OS , while decreased levels of HDL-C may predict worse outcomes for both DFS and OS . These findings may aid in the identification of high-risk patients and allow them to take necessary measures in advance .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the relation between obesity-related indices and mild cognitive impairment ( MCI ) in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) . METHODS : A total of 597 eligible elderly patients with T2D were included in this retrospective study . All patients were divided into MCI group and normal cognitive group based on neuropsychological assessment . Twelve obesity-related indices were calculated , including body mass index ( BMI ) , waist-hip ratio ( WHR ) , waist-to-height ratio ( WHtR ) , lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) , body roundness index ( BRI ) , conicity index ( CI ) , visceral adiposity index ( VAI ) , body adiposity index ( BAI ) , abdominal volume index ( AVI ) , a body shape index ( ABSI ) , triglyceride glucose ( TyG ) index and cardiometabolic index ( CMI ) . Multivariate logistic regression analysis , tests for trend and restricted cubic splines were used to assess the relationships between the tests for trend and MCI in elderly patients with T2D . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves and areas under the curves ( AUC ) were used to assess the performance and predictive ability of the obesity-related indices for identifying MCI in elderly patients with T2D . RESULTS : Multivariate logistic regression showed that elevated BMI , WHR , WHtR , LAP , BRI , CI , VAI , AVI , TyG index , and CMI were associated with an increased risk of MCI in elderly T2D patients after adjusting for potential confounders ( all P < 05 ) . In addition , TyG index , LAP , CMI , VAI , AVI , WHR , WHtR , BRI , and CI had negative correlations with Montreal Cognitive Assessment ( MoCA ) scores ( all P < 05 ) . There was a significant linear trend between the levels of BMI ( P for trend = 004 , P for non-linearity = 637 ) , WHR ( P for trend = 006 , P for non-linearity = 430 ) , WHtR ( P for trend < 001 , P for non-linearity = 452 ) , BRI ( P for trend < 001 , P for non-linearity = 252 ) , AVI ( P for trend < 001 , P for non-linearity = 944 ) , and TyG index ( P for trend < 001 , P for non-linearity = 514 ) and risk of MCI in elderly patients with T2D after adjusting for potential confounders . There was a nonlinear association between LAP , VAI or CMI and risk of MCI in elderly patients with T2D ( all P for non-linearity < 001 ) . CMI had the greatest AUC ( AUC = 682 ) , followed by VAI ( AUC = 679 ) , TyG index ( AUC = 673 ) , LAP ( AUC = 669 ) , AVI ( AUC = 580 ) , WHtR and BRI ( AUC = 575 ) , BMI ( AUC = 560 ) , CI ( AUC = 556 ) , WHR ( AUC = 554 ) , BAI ( AUC = 547 ) , and ABSI ( AUC = 536 ) . CONCLUSION : Elevated obesity-related indices , particularly CMI , VAI , TyG index and LAP , which displayed the higher predictive power , were instrumental in forecasting and evaluating MCI in elderly T2D patients . These findings may provide clues for future studies exploring early diagnostic biomarkers and treatment of MCI in elderly T2D patients .
BACKGROUND : Rhubarb has a remarkable effect on lowering blood lipid and glucose levels , and its main component , emodin , is an anthraquinone derivative . To elucidate the role and mechanism of emodin in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) and to provide robust evidence for its clinical application , we conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis to assess the influence of emodin on T2DM animal models and the overall therapeutic effect , and further to evaluate its benefits and risks in the management of T2DM . METHODS : Eight databases were searched from inception to May Two reviewers extracted the data independently . SYRCLE ' s risk of bias tool for animal studies was used to assess the quality of articles . RevMan V . 4 software and STATA 1 software were applied for data analyses . Body weight , serum insulin level ( INS ) , fasting blood glucose ( FBG ) , 2-hour postprandial blood glucose ( 2hPG , IPGTT/OGTT ) , insulin tolerance test ( IPITT ) indicators , total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL-c ) , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-c ) were used as outcome measures . Data for outcome messures presented in graphical form were extracted using GetData graphic digitizer software ( version 26 ) . For outcome indicators with a small number of included studies , we will conduct descriptive analyses . RESULTS : Twelve existing studies were included in this meta-analysis , and all of the studies included in this review had a low to moderate risk of bias . The results showed that emodin significantly reduced the glucose and lipid metabolism indicators and effectively lowered body weight and serum insulin levels ( FBG , 2hPG ( IPGTT/OGTT ) , IPITT , TG , TC , LDL-c , HDL-c ) ( P < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : Emodin demonstrates significant potential in treating T2DM by reducing FBG , 2hPG ( IPGTT/OGTT ) , IPITT , TC , TG , INS , and body weight in animal models . The therapeutic mechanisms of emodin include enhancing glucose utilization in peripheral tissues , inhibiting glucosidase absorption , alleviating insulin resistance , and strengthening L-type calcium channels . Additionally , emodin shares characteristics with first-line antidiabetic drugs such as metformin , acarbose , and repaglinide , promoting insulin secretion and enhancing cellular sensitivity to insulin . Furthermore , emodin exhibits actions similar to glucagon-likepeptide-1 ( GLP-1 ) receptor agonists , suggesting its potential for protecting target organs . Therefore , emodin is a highly promising drug with substantial research and clinical value . However , caution should be exercised due to significant heterogeneity among the studies , and results may evolve with additional research .
This study investigated the impact of chilling on the quality of breast and leg meat from spent laying and broiler duck meats ( BSD , LSD , BBD , and LBD ) over 0 , 5 , and 9 days . Variations in meat type and chilling duration influenced chemical and physical properties and preference scores . Moisture content in duck meat decreased during chilling ( p < 05 ) , which was attributed to a significant increase in weight loss . TBARS , TCA , and MFI increased after 9 days of chilling ( p < 05 ) , resulting in increased cooking loss and decreased shear force , particularly in BSD and BBD . L* and a* values decreased during chilling ( p < 05 ) , while b* values exhibited an opposite trend due to markedly increased TBARS , MetMb content , and protein denaturation . Sensory characteristics scores declined after 5 days of chilling , notably in odor and overall preference ( p < 05 ) . After 9 days , the overall preference score reached its lowest point , with panelists deeming the meat unacceptable due to strong off-odor and discoloration . Notably , while the quality changes observed in breast and leg meat from spent laying ducks followed a similar trend to broiler ducks , the rate of protein degradation and lipid oxidation was significantly higher in the spent laying ducks compared to broiler ducks . Consequently , all four meat types can be chilled for up to 5 days while maintaining good quality in terms of chemical and physical properties . The findings of this study provide insights into understanding the quality changes in duck meat for optimizing storage practices .
In order to investigate the migration mechanism of three essential oil ( thyme , cinnamon and lemon ) from chitosan film to food simulants ( distilled water , 3% acetic acid , 10% ethanol , 50% ethanol and 95% ethanol ) , the physical and chemical properties of essential oil and composite films were estimated . The results showed that cinnamon essential oil had high lipid/water partition coefficient and dissolution ability in 50% ethanol compared with the other food simulants . But lemon essential oil showed good dissolution with the increasing ethanol concentration . In comparison , the migration of essential oil was positive correlation with the film solubility in all food simulants , but negative correlation with the swelling degree in 95% ethanol . Moreover , the film structure was destroyed seriously in 3% acetic acid which resulted in fast swelling , solubility and migration of essential oil . Both 50% ethanol and 10% ethanol also improved the swelling and solubility of films . SEM showed that the state of essential oil in films was variable based on the type of food simulants . The O-H bond of chitosan matrix was greatly impacted by 3% acetic acid and 95% ethanol . The study provided a new insight for migration mechanism of chitosan-essential oil film in food simulants . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1007/s13197-024-06100-
BACKGROUND : The use of essential oil nanoemulsions has emerged as a promising strategy for extending the shelf life of highly perishable foods , like fish , by leveraging their natural antimicrobial and antioxidant properties . AIMS : This study investigated the effects of an edible sodium caseinate coating incorporating Oliveria decumbens essential oil ( Od-EO ) and its nanoemulsion ( Od-NEO ) , along with vitamin E and sodium dodecyl sulfate ( SDS ) , on the shelf life of rainbow trout fillets during refrigeration . METHODS : Fish samples were coated by immersion in pure sodium caseinate ( SC ) , SC+Od-EO , and SC+Od-NEO . Sensory ( odor , color , texture , overall acceptance ) , chemical ( pH , total volatile basic nitrogen [TVB-N] , thiobarbituric acid [TBA] , and peroxide value [PV] ) , and microbiological analyses ( total mesophilic aerobic bacteria , psychrophilic anaerobic bacteria , and Pseudomonas spp . counts ) were conducted over 15 days of storage at 4 degrees C . RESULTS : The study results indicated that fillets treated with SC+Od-NEO exhibited significantly higher quality compared with other treatments . Additionally , the combination of nanoemulsion , vitamin E , and SDS showed synergistic effects in reducing microbial growth , delaying lipid oxidation , and improving organoleptic quality , extending the shelf life of rainbow trout fillets up to 15 days . Overall , the correlation analysis highlights the interdependence of microbial , chemical , and sensory parameters and reinforces the role of SC-NEO-based treatments in mitigating spoilage and maintaining the sensory quality of fish fillets during storage . CONCLUSION : The results highlight the potential of nanoemulsion-based coatings as an innovative and effective strategy for extending the shelf life of highly perishable fish products . Coting with SC+Od-NEO+Vit E+SDS can be recommended as an effective food preservative . FAU - Nikravan , L
Background : Short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) may play key functional roles in the pathophysiology of type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) through regulating energy intake and substrate metabolism . Body composition , including fat tissue , muscle tissue and the pattern of their distribution in the body , can represent health status and be the cause or consequence of T2D complications . The aim of this study was to explore the relationship between serum SCFA levels and body composition distribution in patients with T2D . Methods : This observational cross-sectional study enrolled 430 patients with T2D from October 2016 to June The levels of nine kinds of SCFAs in serum were measured using liquid chromatography mass spectrometry . Body composition , including lean tissue and fat tissue , was measured once using bioimpedance spectroscopy at enrollment . Results : The mean age of the patients was 7 +/- 3 years and 0% were male . Multivariate linear analysis revealed that the patients with the highest tertile of serum methylbutyrate level ( beta = -81 , 95% CI = -56 , -06 , p = 03 ) and valerate/isovalerate ratio ( beta = -15 , 95% CI = -86 , -44 , p = 002 ) had a lower fat tissue index ( FTI ) . In subgroup analysis , the negative association of FTI with serum methylbutyrate level and valerate/isovalerate ratio was only found in the patients who were older , female , and had glycated hemoglobin </= 7% , urinary albumin-creatinine ratio < 30 mg/g , homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance </= median value , and body mass index < 30 kg/m . Conversely , none of the nine SCFAs were associated with lean tissue index . Conclusions : This study found that T2D patients with a higher circulating methylbutyrate level and serum valerate/isovalerate ratio had lower FTI . The relationship was consistent in older , female patients with well-controlled glucose . Further research is needed to analyze the interactions between SCFAs and body composition with clinical metabolic outcomes in T2D patients .
Objectives : Dyslipidemia is common in lupus nephritis ( LN ) . However , the relationship between the total cholesterol/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( TC/HDL-C ) ratio and LN remains unclear . This study was designed to investigate the association between the TC/HDL-C ratio and LN . Method : This study included individuals diagnosed with LN between January 1 , 1996 and December 31 , Split by the optimal cutoff TC/HDL-C ratio value of the primary outcome , patients were divided into lower ( <71 ) and higher ( >/=71 ) TC/HDL-C ratio groups . Multivariate Cox regression analysis and subgroup analyses were carried out to confirm the connection of the TC/HDL-C ratio with the adverse clinical outcomes in LN . Results : A total of 818 patients with LN were followed up for a median of ten years and 129 ( 77% ) experienced all-cause death and 119 ( 55% ) reached adverse renal events . Kaplan-Meier survival analyses demonstrated that patients exhibited a higher TC/HDL-C ratio were more susceptible to all-cause death ( P=003 ) and adverse renal outcomes ( P=001 ) in LN . After adjustments , a higher TC/HDL-C ratio still exhibited significant correlations with all-cause death [hazard ratio ( HR ) : 51 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 03-23 ; P=036] and adverse renal outcomes in LN patients [HR : 57 , 95%CI : 05-36 ; P=028] . Further subgroup analyses revealed that LN patients who were male , younger than 40 years old or with estimated glomerular filtration rate under 60 ml/min/73m2 seemed to be more susceptible to adverse clinical outcomes ( P<05 ) . Conclusions : An elevated TC/HDL-C ratio exhibited significant associations with poor prognosis in LN . Patients with LN may benefit from further TC/HDL-C studies .
This study aimed to provide evidence for the effects of isobutyric acid on the intestinal mucosal barrier and gut microbiota in weaned piglets . In this study , 30 piglets were divided into two groups : one group was fed a standard diet ( CON group ) , and the other group was fed a diet supplemented with 5% isobutyric acid ( IB group ) for 21 days . The results showed that isobutyric acid significantly increased ( p < 05 ) serum immunity and antioxidant capacity in weaned piglets . In small intestine of piglets , the ratio of villus height to crypt depth was significantly increased ( p < 05 ) . Administration of isobutyric acid also increased ( p < 05 ) the expression of genes related to intestinal mucosal barrier function . Cecal microbiota analysis revealed that isobutyric acid significantly increased ( p < 05 ) the abundance of the Eubacterium coprostanoligenes group . Untargeted serum metabolomics analysis indicated that the top three categories of metabolites were lipids and lipid-like molecules , organic acids and derivatives , and organic heterocyclic compounds . Additionally , in longissimus thoracis muscle , isobutyric acid significantly increased ( p < 0 05 ) intramuscular fat and triglyceride content compared with the CON group . Overall , isobutyric acid can improve small intestinal mucosal barrier function , and may influence the fat deposition through the regulation of serum metabolites in weaned piglets .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Serum calcium ( Ca ) , phosphate ( P ) , and calcium-phosphate product ( CPP ) are associated with cardiovascular disease and atherosclerosis in patients with chronic kidney disease . However , it remains unclear whether this relationship persists in individuals with carotid artery atherosclerosis of acute ischemic stroke . We investigated the association between serum Ca , P , as well as CPP , and carotid artery atherosclerotic plaque in acute ischemic stroke patients . METHODS AND RESULTS : A total of 251 ischemic stroke participants with carotid artery atherosclerosis ( mean age : 68 years ; male : 1% ) were retrospectively enrolled at a comprehensive stroke center . Serum Ca and P levels were obtained from blood tests after admission . Carotid artery plaque burden and vulnerability were evaluated using high-resolution magnetic resonance vessel wall imaging . Subsequently , the associations between serum Ca , P , as well as CPP , and the characteristics of atherosclerotic plaques were analyzed using multivariate linear and logistic regression analyses . Finally , the consistency of these associations was also explored across different subgroups . As a result , serum P and CPP levels were associated with carotid artery plaque burden , presented as maximum wall thickness ( max WT ) , wall area , and lipid-rich necrotic core ( LRNC ) , in univariate analysis , with beta = -205 , 95% CI ( -348 , -061 ) , beta = -258 , 95% CI ( -405 , -113 ) , OR = 182 , 95% CI ( 034 , 975 ) for P , and beta = -203 , 95% CI ( -346 , -059 ) , beta = -221 , 95% CI ( -366 , -074 ) , OR = 466 , 95% CI ( 237 , 915 ) for CPP , respectively . In multivariate regression analysis , the serum P level was independently associated with wall area , beta = -211 , 95% CI ( -367 , -052 ) . CONCLUSION : Lower serum phosphorus levels are associated with an increased carotid artery plaque wall area .
One of the most important parameters for the development of novel ionizable lipids ( ILs ) for use in lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) drug carriers is their pK ( a ) value . Ideally , the LNP should be deprotonated outside the cell to prevent cytotoxicity and protonated inside the endosome , where pH is lower . To achieve this switch , the LNP ' s pK ( a ) value , the so-called " apparent pK ( a ) value " , should range generally between 5 and For specific applications , the range is narrower . We present a straightforward approach to computationally estimate this apparent pK ( a ) value of LNPs using density functional theory ( DFT ) . This method uses " surrogates " of the ILs , which are hypothetical derivatives featuring an N , N-dimethylethylaminium side group attached to the lipid ' s nitrogen atom .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Ferroptosis plays an essential role in chronic liver diseases , and cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX-2 ) affects liver fibrosis through multiple mechanisms . However , research on COX-2 regulation of ferroptosis in chronic liver injury remains limited . This study aimed to investigate whether and how COX-2 regulates ferroptosis in chronic liver injury . METHODS : In vivo , a thioacetamide ( TAA ) -induced chronic liver injury model , characterized by significant liver lipid peroxidation and oxidative stress , was used . COX-2 ( +/+ ) and COX-2 ( -/- ) mice were treated with TAA or normal saline . In vitro , primary mouse hepatocytes were isolated and treated with dimethyl sulfoxide ( DMSO ) , erastin+DMSO , etoricoxib+erastin+DMSO , and tBHQ+erastin+DMSO . Mitochondrial morphology , iron metabolism , lipid peroxidation , and oxidative stress were assessed to verify ferroptosis . The nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) signaling pathway was measured to investigate the relationship between COX-2 and ferroptosis . RESULTS : TAA-treated COX-2 ( -/- ) mice presented milder liver fibrosis , whereas TAA-treated COX-2 ( -/- ) mice livers and etoricoxib+erastin+DMSO-treated primary hepatocytes exhibited alleviated mitochondrial damage compared with TAA-treated COX-2 ( +/+ ) littermates and erastin+DMSO-treated primary hepatocytes , respectively . The knockout of COX-2 decreased ferrous ion concentration ( p < 01 ) and mitigated lipid peroxidation in TAA-treated livers ( p < 05 ) . Furthermore , both COX-2 knockout and etoricoxib restored reduced glutathione ( p < 05 ) and glutathione peroxidase 4 ( p < 05 ) , while decreasing malondialdehyde levels ( p < 05 ) . Additionally , COX-2 inhibition upregulated Nrf2 , which helped alleviate erastin+DMSO-induced ferroptosis ( p < 01 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Ferroptosis contributes to the progression of chronic liver injury . Inhibition of COX-2 upregulates Nrf2 , mitigating hepatocyte ferroptosis in chronic liver injury .
Background Lichen planus ( LP ) is an immune-mediated inflammatory disorder of the skin , mucous membranes , and nails . Several studies have reported a potential association between lichen planus and dyslipidemia , suggesting a possible link between this chronic inflammatory condition and metabolic disturbances . However , existing evidence has shown variable results across different populations . This study was conducted to further investigate the association between lichen planus and dyslipidemia . Methods A comparative cross-sectional study was conducted at Sri Ramachandra Institute of Higher Education and Research , Chennai , from August 2022 to August The study included 67 clinically diagnosed LP patients and 67 age- and sex-matched healthy controls . Detailed clinical examinations and fasting lipid profiles were performed . Statistical tools such as descriptive statistics , chi-square tests , and paired t-tests were applied . Results Patients with lichen planus ( LP ) exhibited statistically significant higher total cholesterol ( p=001 ) and low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) ( p=001 ) levels compared to controls in both males and females . However , significantly elevated triglyceride levels were observed only in male LP patients ( p=04 ) . The high-density lipoproteins ( HDL ) ( p=534 ) levels were similar between both groups . The prevalence of hypertension , diabetes , hypothyroidism , and cardiovascular disease was also higher in LP patients . Duration of illness was positively correlated with dyslipidemia prevalence . Conclusion LP patients exhibit higher lipid levels and comorbidities , highlighting the need for comprehensive management strategies such as routine lipid profile monitoring , early intervention , and lifestyle modification counselling , to mitigate the risk of dyslipidemia to address cardiovascular risk factors .
Diabetes mellitus is a major global health issue , with rising prevalence and complications such as diabetic retinopathy ( DR ) . Effective prevention strategies , including glycemic , lipid , and blood pressure control , are essential . Lifestyle interventions - particularly diet and physical activity - are increasingly recognized for their role in mitigating DR progression . The review followed Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses ( PRISMA ) guidelines and searched PUBMED , Web of Science , Cochrane Library , and ScienceDirect for studies published between 2010 and Included studies assessed the impact of dietary changes and physical activity on DR severity , retinal vascular complications , glycemic control ( HbA1c ) , visual acuity , and inflammatory biomarkers . Statistical analysis , including risk ratios and heterogeneity , was performed using RevMan version 1 ( The Cochrane Collaboration , Oxford , UK ) , and the risk of bias in randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) was assessed accordingly . Across 10 studies involving various lifestyle interventions , combined diet and exercise significantly improved glycemic control ( lower HbA1c ) , lipid profiles , inflammation markers , and slowed DR progression . Interventions such as culturally tailored education , e-coaching , and long-term physical activity were particularly effective . Sleep and gut microbiota also emerged as influential lifestyle factors . However , a few studies showed no significant long-term impact , highlighting the dominant role of cumulative HbA1c . HbA1c levels were reduced by up to 1% ( e . g . , from 2% to 1% , p < 05 ) , and the progression rate of DR was reduced by 47% in long-term follow-up studies ( HR = 53 , 95% CI : 29-99 ) . Lifestyle interventions - especially those combining a healthy diet and physical activity - effectively reduce DR progression in patients with diabetes by improving metabolic control and reducing inflammation . These findings support the integration of personalized , technology-assisted lifestyle programs into diabetes care for DR prevention . However , long-term glycemic control remains a critical factor .
Lipid dysregulation within sebaceous glands is a critical factor underlying the pathogenesis of sebaceous gland disorders , particularly acne vulgaris . Sebaceous glands synthesize and secrete a complex mixture of lipids , including triglycerides , wax esters , free fatty acids , and sphingolipids , which contribute to skin barrier function and microbial homeostasis . Dysregulated lipid production , characterized by increased sebum secretion and altered lipid composition , has been implicated in promoting Cutibacterium acnes proliferation , hyperkeratinization , and inflammation , key processes in acne pathogenesis . Recent research highlights the pivotal role of sphingolipid metabolism , particularly ceramides , in modulating sebaceous gland activity and skin inflammation . Ceramide deficiencies in acne-prone skin contribute to compromised barrier integrity , increased microbial colonization , and an exaggerated inflammatory response . Furthermore , sphingolipid intermediates such as sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) influence sebocyte differentiation , lipid synthesis , and cytokine release , linking sphingolipid metabolism to sebaceous gland homeostasis . Emerging therapeutic strategies targeting sphingolipid pathways offer new opportunities for managing sebaceous gland disorders . Topical and systemic therapies designed to restore ceramide levels and modulate S1P signaling have shown promise in preclinical studies , with potential to reduce sebum production , enhance barrier function , and attenuate inflammation . Additionally , sphingolipid-targeted formulations combined with established treatments , such as retinoids and antimicrobial agents , may enhance therapeutic outcomes while minimizing side effects . The dysregulation of sebaceous lipid metabolism , particularly sphingolipid pathways , plays a central role in acne pathogenesis , and emerging insights into these mechanisms are shaping innovative strategies for the treatment and prevention of sebaceous gland disorders .
BACKGROUND : Silent myocardial ischemia ( SMI ) , a frequently underdiagnosed condition in diabetic patients , contributes significantly to increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality . The absence of typical symptoms , such as angina ( particularly in diabetic individuals with altered pain perception due to autonomic neuropathy ) , allows ischemic episodes to go unnoticed , while chronic hyperglycemia , endothelial dysfunction , oxidative stress , and low-grade inflammation further predispose them to SMI . Yet despite its serious consequences , it often remains undetected due to both symptomlessness and limitations in standard screening , highlighting the urgent need for proactive risk stratification and targeted diagnostic approaches . OBJECTIVE : To determine the prevalence and key risk factors associated with SMI in diabetic adults , aiming to enhance early detection through targeted risk stratification and inform tailored screening strategies to reduce cardiovascular events in this high-risk group . METHODOLOGY : This cross-sectional study was conducted at Jinnah Hospital , Lahore , from May 2020 to May A total of 162 diabetic patients aged >/=40 years with a minimum five-year duration of diabetes and no prior history of overt coronary artery disease , ascertained through clinical history review and verification from available medical records , were enrolled using convenient sampling . This approach was selected due to time and resource constraints within the clinical setting . All participants underwent comprehensive evaluation , including detailed medical history , physical examination , laboratory tests ( HbA1c and lipid profile ) , and cardiac assessments using myocardial perfusion imaging , exercise stress testing , and resting ECG . Multivariate logistic regression analysis was applied to identify independent predictors of SMI , with results reported as odds ratios ( OR ) and 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) . A p-value of <05 was considered statistically significant . RESULTS : SMI was detected in 61 ( 65% ) diabetic patients . Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified several independent predictors of SMI : smoking ( OR : 67 ; 95% CI : 32-41 ; p = 006 ) , hypertension ( OR : 89 ; 95% CI : 02-51 ; p = 041 ) , dyslipidemia ( OR : 15 ; 95% CI : 18-93 ; p = 012 ) , diabetes duration >10 years ( OR : 34 ; 95% CI : 22-48 ; p = 010 ) , and poor glycemic control ( HbA1c >7% ) ( OR : 21 ; 95% CI : 59-49 ; p = 001 ) . Advancing age was also significantly associated with increased SMI risk ( OR per year : 05 ; 95% CI : 02-09 ; p = 003 ) , with a marked rise in prevalence observed beyond the age of These findings highlight a high burden of silent myocardial ischemia among diabetic individuals and underscore the importance of identifying key predictors to support early detection , targeted screening , and risk-based management strategies to mitigate adverse cardiovascular outcomes . CONCLUSION : SMI affects over one-third of diabetic individuals , often going undetected due to the absence of symptoms and limitations in routine screening . Key risk factors include smoking , poor glycemic control , long-standing diabetes , dyslipidemia , hypertension , and increasing age-particularly beyond 55 years . Incorporating non-invasive cardiac assessments such as stress ECG and myocardial perfusion imaging into screening protocols for high-risk diabetics can enable earlier diagnosis , timely intervention , and ultimately reduce the burden of future cardiovascular events .
Objectives Tofacitinib , an effective Janus kinase inhibitor ( JAKi ) , has gained increasing interest in recent years for the management of refractory alopecia areata ( AA ) . One of the most prevalent autoimmune diseases is AA , a kind of non-scarring alopecia . Therefore , the purpose of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of oral tofacitinib in treating AA , alopecia totalis ( AT ) , and alopecia universalis ( AU ) . Methodology This interventional study was conducted at Hamdard Medical University , Taj Medical Complex , using a non-probability consecutive sampling technique . The duration of the study was about six months . This study included 50 patients of both genders diagnosed with AA , AT , and AU , aged five years to 50 years , and who were fit for treatment with oral tofacitinib . Pediatric patients received 5 mg once daily , while adults received 5 mg twice daily . Treatment response was assessed at eight , 12 , and 24 weeks using changes in the Severity of Alopecia Tool ( SALT ) score from baseline . A Chi-square test was used to compare SALT scores and percentage changes over the follow-up period . Results The study findings showed that the mean age of the patients was 6 +/- 8 years . Of them , 23 ( 0% ) were males , and 27 ( 0% ) were females . The majority of the patients ( 39 , 0% ) had AA , with nine ( 0% ) patients having AU , and two ( 0% ) having AT . The mean ( SD ) pretreatment scalp hair loss was 48 +/- 58 % , and the mean scalp involvement at 24-week follow-up was 5 +/- 0% . The mean regrowth rate was 9 +/- 5 % . Moreover , a statistically significant difference was observed between the changes in SALT score from baseline and the scores of SALT at eight , 12 , and 24 weeks ( p < 001 ) . Conclusion This study concluded that administration of oral tofacitinib to AA patients had significantly improved hair growth . Additionally , it has been revealed to be a potentially efficacious therapy for the management of severe and refractory disease . However , our follow-up period was small , and some side effects , such as changes in lipid count and cardiovascular side effects , may take a longer time to develop ; therefore , longer follow-up studies are needed to better evaluate the long-term safety of this drug in AA .
INTRODUCTION : Synbiotic supplements have been shown to affect type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , however ; results remain inconclusive . Thus , the present study was designed to investigate the potential effect of multi-strain synbiotic supplements on liver enzymes , insulin resistance , anthropometric indices , and inflammatory markers in overweight/obese patients with NAFLD and T2DM . METHOD : In a 12-week triple-blinded randomized controlled trial , 40 eligible overweight or obese adults with NAFLD and T2DM were randomly assigned to two groups to consume either synbiotic supplements or a placebo along a low-calorie diet . Participants were assessed for liver enzymes , anthropometric and glycemic indices , and lipid profiles before and after the study . RESULT : After the study period , using intention-to-treat approach 20 individuals were included in the final analysis for each group . The intervention group showed significant reductions in within group analysis for insulin levels , weight , and BMI ( P < 05 ) . AST was reduced in both intervention and control groups . However , no significant differences were found for between-group analyses . Additionally , changes in inflammatory markers , lipid profiles , and insulin resistance indices were not statistically significant . CONCLUSION : In the present study , synbiotic supplements showed improvements in insulin levels , weight , BMI , and AST . However , in comparison to the control group no beneficial effects were observed . Further studies are recommended to draw more definitive conclusions .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE : Acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) is a common cardiovascular disease in clinical practice . It is caused mainly by vulnerable plaque rupture ( PR ) or surface plaque erosion ( PE ) caused by serious thrombotic events , and eventually leads to myocardial blood supply insufficiency or necrosis . The disease has high morbidity and mortality rates . In this study , we review the literature on biomarkers of ACS metabolites and modification of disease by altering related metabolic pathways through drugs , aiming to provide clarity on potential biomarkers of disease identified to date . METHODS : PubMed was used for literature review . From January 1 , 2014 to December 3 , 2024 , English articles on clinical trials , randomized controlled trials of metabolomics studies in ACS were included . KEY CONTENT AND FINDINGS : In this review , we discuss the advantages and disadvantages of three techniques currently used for metabolomic analysis . In addition , the recent decade of metabolomic approaches to the discovery of potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for ACS is reviewed . It was found that the metabolites changed in patients with ACS were mostly amino acids , lipids and carbohydrates . Tryptophan and glutamine can be used as potential diagnostic biomarkers . Mannitol and ceramide can be used as prognostic biomarkers . Drugs can improve disease by affecting changes in metabolites in the body . CONCLUSIONS : ACS studies based on metabolomics have demonstrated great potential for identifying disease-related metabolomic features in the discovery of potential biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis and mechanisms of drug therapy .
BACKGROUND : Apolipoprotein M ( ApoM ) , a protein component of lipoproteins , is closely related to the development of atherosclerosis , but the specific mechanism remains elusive . Mitochondrial DNA damage can contribute to atherosclerosis , so this study was designed to investigate whether ApoM influences the structure and function of mitochondria during the progression of atherosclerosis and to explore the underlying mechanism . METHODS : Atherosclerosis models were established in male ApoM-deficient ( ApoM ( -/- ) ) and wild-type ( ApoM ( +/+ ) ) C57BL/6 mice fed a high-fat diet ( HFD ) , and the development of atherosclerosis was verified by en face analysis of the aorta and Masson ' s trichrome staining . We utilized transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) to examine the ultrastructure of the aorta , its endothelial cells and EA . hy926 cells . Mass spectrometry-based lipidomics was performed to measure lipidomes in the serum and liver tissue of ApoM ( - ) ( /- ) mice . In EA . hy926 cells , we modulated the levels of autophagy and ApoM expression , and investigated the mechanism by which ApoM influences the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis through western blotting , JC-1 staining , flow cytometry , and Seahorse extracellular flux analysis . RESULTS : In ApoM ( -/- ) mice fed an HFD , atherosclerotic markers such as aortic lipid accumulation , fibrosis , endothelial cell oedema , and mitochondrial swelling were observed , indicating early atherosclerotic development . Lipidomic analysis revealed that ApoM deficiency might lead to impaired autophagy and mitochondrial dysfunction . In EA . hy926 cells , overexpression of ApoM not only activated autophagy but also improved mitochondrial structure . Moreover , ApoM decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential ( DeltaPsim ) of EA . hy926 cells , which was further reduced by autophagy activation . Additionally , overexpression of ApoM in EA . hy926 cells , which have a low basal metabolism and primarily rely on glycolysis for energy , significantly reduced basal mitochondrial respiration and adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) production , suggesting that ApoM can facilitate mitochondrial fission . CONCLUSIONS : ApoM exerts atheroprotective effects by promoting autophagy and regulating mitochondrial dynamics , thereby maintaining mitochondrial integrity and function . This study provides novel insights into the mechanisms underlying the protective role of ApoM in atherosclerosis and highlights its potential as a therapeutic target for cardiovascular diseases .
Cancer is a major contributor to global morbidity and mortality . Among the different forms of cancer , colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is the third most frequently diagnosed cancer in men and the second most common cancer type in women globally . We aimed to explore the possible synergistic anticancer potential of curcumin ( Cur ) and plumbagin ( PL ) in the human colon cancer cell line ( HCT-116 ) . The 3- ( 4 , 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl ) -2 , 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide ( MTT ) /cytotoxicity assay revealed IC values of 7 and 5 muM for Cur and PL , respectively , as a separate entity . However , the combined treatment of Cur + PL significantly enhanced the cancer cell growth inhibitory potential compared with solitary treatments with an IC value of 8 muM . The combined treatment also led to the induction of apoptosis by 41% , cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase , while Bax and p53 genes were found to be upregulated and the Bcl-2 gene was downregulated compared to the untreated/solvent control . Furthermore , combined treatment elevated reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production by 59% and resulted a decline in the mitochondrial membrane potential ( MMP ) compared to the control . Catalase and superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) activities were significantly reduced , leading to enhanced lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) and compromised membrane integrity , which were also confirmed by 4 ' , 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole ( DAPI ) + propoidium iodide ( PI ) staining were also noted . Our in vitro data were further supported by molecular docking , which showed a higher binding energy of the proteins ( Bax , Bcl-2 , and p53 ) with Cur + PL . Overall , our findings highlight the potent synergistic effects of the Cur and PL combination , which can be exploited as a combination therapy for CRC .
Cellular communication is a critical process that relies on exocytosis , during which cells release stored chemical messengers contained within intracellular nanoscale vesicles ( 50-500 nm in diameter ) . Before this occurs , the vesicle membrane must open and form a fusion pore , allowing its contents to be released into the extracellular space . This subcellular process involves various biomolecules , such as lipids and proteins , within the membrane , and any changes in their levels can impact dynamic pore formation and , consequently , the exocytosis process . Due to their small size , intracellular location , and sensitivity , direct studies of vesicles are challenging yet highly valuable . One of these crucial biomolecules is phosphatidylinositol-4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PIP2 ) , a lipid involved in membrane dynamics and related processes including exocytosis . In this study , we employed a combination of sensitive confocal microscopy and vesicle impact electrochemical cytometry ( VIEC ) -a novel amperometric technique using microelectrodes ( D , 33 mum ) -to test the hypothesis that elevated PIP2 levels regulate vesicle membrane properties and indirectly influence the exocytosis process . To investigate this , we used nanoscale vesicles isolated from neural cells as a biological model system . First , imaging analysis revealed that high PIP2 levels led to its accumulation in both cell and vesicle membranes , where it also participates in exocytosis . Next , direct analysis of PIP2-treated and untreated single nanoscale vesicles using VIEC demonstrated that while the vesicle content ( i . e . , the number of stored catecholamines ) remained unchanged after PIP2 treatment , the vesicle opening dynamics were altered compared to the control . Specifically , our results showed that the vesicle opening rate increased by 1 ms , and the duration of vesicle opening extended from 7 to 9 ms in PIP2-treated vesicles compared to the control . In addition to the recognized roles of PIP2 , these findings indicate that an extra level of PIP2 modulates the vesicle opening rate and suggest that PIP2 enhances membrane stability while delaying the vesicle opening process . Interestingly , this observation aligns with previous experimental and computational studies , which reported that abnormally high levels of PIP2 or other lipids can modify membrane properties and then exocytosis too . In our study , we observed this effect for PIP2 at abnormal levels through single vesicle electroanalysis . Furthermore , these results open a new way of investigating similar membrane components and their roles in disease mechanisms and cellular processes .
OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the predictive value of lipid levels for coronary heart disease ( CHD ) risk in elderly hypertensive patients and to establish a prediction model . METHODS : Data from 428 elderly hypertensive patients attending the First Affiliated Hospital of Anhui Medical University between January 2021 and December 2023 were retrospectively collected . Patients were categorized into CHD and non-CHD groups based on the presence of comorbid CHD . Risk factors were identified using logistic regression , and a clinical prediction model was constructed . Model discrimination and calibration were assessed using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves and the Hosmer-Lemeshow test . Decision curve analysis ( DCA ) was used to assess the clinical application value of the model . RESULTS : Advanced age , smoking , hypertension duration >10 years , and abnormal total cholesterol ( TC ) were independently associated with an increased risk of CHD in elderly hypertensive patients . In addition , there was a trend linking abnormalities in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) and lipoprotein ( a ) [Lp ( a ) ] with higher CHD risk in this population . The developed clinical prediction model showed good discrimination ( AUC=71 ) and calibration ( P=907 ) . The model ' s accuracy , sensitivity , specificity , positive predictive value , and negative predictive value were 69 , 72 , 60 , 82 , and 46 , respectively . CONCLUSION : Abnormal lipid levels are independent predictors of increased CHD risk in elderly hypertensive patients . The prediction model developed in this study holds clinical value in assessing CHD risk , enabling early identification of high-risk patients and the development of individualized preventive strategies .
OBJECTIVES : To develop and validate a risk prediction model for alcoholic fatty liver disease ( AFLD ) based on clinical characteristics and liver stiffness measurements . METHODS : This retrospective cohort study included 148 AFLD patients and 148 healthy controls from a tertiary hospital between January 2018 and December Participants underwent biochemical tests ( lipid profile , liver function , uric acid ) and liver stiffness measurements using Elastography Protocol for Quantification ( Elast PQ ) . The external validation cohort , was from another hospital , with data collected from May 2019 to December It included 90 patients diagnosed with AFLD and 90 healthy controls . Machine learning methods ( random forest , support vector machine , logistic regression ) were employed to compare model performance . Logistic regression was used to identify predictive factors . Model performance was evaluated using Receiver Operating Characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis , confusion matrices , calibration curves , and Decision Curve Analysis ( DCA ) . RESULTS : Univariate analysis revealed significant associations between body mass index ( BMI ) , alcohol consumption , blood lipids , and liver function with AFLD ( P < 001 ) . Multivariate analysis identified high-aensity lipoprotein ( HDL ) ( P = 041 ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) ( P = 007 ) , and Elast PQ ( P = 038 ) as independent risk factors . The logistic regression model showed an area under the curve ( AUC ) of 81 in the training set , 67 in the validation set , and 79 in the external validation cohort . The optimal cutoff value of 403 maximized sensitivity ( 62 ) and specificity ( 69 ) , with an accuracy of DCA indicated a high clinical net benefit . The risk prediction score enables rapid AFLD risk assessment and demonstrates strong predictive ability . CONCLUSIONS : The AFLD risk prediction model , based on clinical features and liver stiffness assessment , exhibits strong predictive power and significant clinical value for early diagnosis and management .
OBJECTIVE : It was unclear whether the clinical benefit of evolocumab extended to diabetic patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction ( STEMI ) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) in China . In this study , the safety and efficacy of evolocumab in treating diabetic patients with STEMI undergoing PCI was assessed . METHODS : A retrospective study was conducted involving 184 diabetic patients with STEMI PCI . The patients were assigned to either the evolocumab group or the control ( Ctrl ) group based on whether they were treated with evolocumab . After six months of treatment and 12 months of follow-up , the primary efficacy endpoint , blood lipid levels , and adverse events were evaluated . Additionally , a prognostic model was developed to examine the relationship between evolocumab intervention and primary efficacy endpoint . RESULTS : Blood lipid levels and intima-media thickness decreased significantly and the LVEF levels increased significantly in patients after treatment with evolocumab compared to those in patients after administering a standard therapy . Treatment with evolocumab also led to a significant reduction in the primary efficacy endpoint . Moreover , no difference in the incidence of adverse reactions was recorded between the groups . The prognostic model constructed showed that evolocumab intervention was a protective factor for the primary efficacy endpoint . CONCLUSIONS : Administering evolocumab had greater benefits for diabetic patients with STEMI undergoing PCI . Our findings might encourage doctors to consider use evolocumab to reduce the risk of future cardiovascular events in diabetic patients with STEMI .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the correlation between uric acid ( UA ) , lipid levels , and preeclampsia ( PE ) , as well as their effect on pregnancy outcome in women in late pregnancy . METHODS : A retrospective analysis was conducted on the clinical data from 126 pregnant women with PE who were admitted to the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi ' an Medical University from June 2021 to January 2024 ( research group ) . Additionally , clinical data from 130 healthy pregnant women who gave birth during the same period were served as controls . General information , UA levels , blood lipid levels [total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , free fatty acids ( FFA ) , lipoprotein-a ( Lp-a ) , apolipoprotein-a1 ( ApoA1 ) , apolipoprotein B ( ApoB ) , LDL-C/HDL-C , and ApoA1/ApoB] and pregnancy outcomes were compared between the two groups . A logistic regression model was used to identify the influencing factors for PE . The predictive value of UA and lipid levels for PE diagnosis and prognosis was evaluated using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis . RESULTS : No significant differences were observed between the groups in terms of age , parity , mode of delivery , neonatal gender , gestational cardiac disease , HDL-C , FFA , ApoA1 , or ApoA1/ApoB ( all P>05 ) . However , the research group exhibited significantly higher body mass index ( BMI ) , prevalence of gestational diabetes , and gestational hypertension , UA , TC , TG , LDL-C , Lp-a , ApoB , and LDL-C/HDL-C ratio compared to the control group , but lower neonatal weight ( all P<05 ) . Furthermore , the research group had a higher incidence of gestational diabetes , gestational hypertension , postpartum hemorrhage , fetal growth retardation , preterm delivery , and neonatal asphyxia ( all P<05 ) . Multivariate logistic regression analysis identified BMI , neonatal weight , UA , TC , TG , and LDL-C as independent influencing factors for PE . ROC curve analysis demonstrated high diagnostic accuracy for BMI ( AUC=835 ) , neonatal weight ( AUC=755 ) , UA ( AUC=765 ) , TC ( AUC=706 ) , and LDL-C ( AUC=792 ) in predicting PE . CONCLUSION : Maternal BMI , neonatal weight , serum UA , TC , TG , and LDL-C levels are risk factors for the development of PE . Among these , BMI , neonatal weight , serum UA , TC , and LDL-C levels have a high predictive value for PE and can serve as valuable indicators for its early prediction and management .
OBJECTIVES : Cancer cells exhibit altered metabolic profiles . Glutaminase 1 ( GLS1 ) , a key enzyme in cancer cells , promoting glutamine catabolism to glutamate and ammonia , is strongly associated with various human malignancies . METHODS : GLS1 promotes lipid accumulation and cell proliferation by upregulating the expression of sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 ( SREBP-1 ) and SREBP cleavage-activating protein ( SCAP ) . Mechanistically , GLS1 promotes lipid metabolism in HCC cells through the activation of the PI3K/AKT/mTORC pathway . RESULTS : GLS1 ' s role in lipid metabolism in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) remains unexplored . Our findings indicate that GLS1 is not only significantly overexpressed in HCC but also negatively correlates with clinical prognosis . Further investigation revealed that GLS1 drives lipid accumulation and de novo fatty acid synthesis in HCC . CONCLUSIONS : Our study suggests that GLS1 mediates SREBP-1 to drive lipid metabolism in HCC via the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase/protein kinase B/mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 ( PI3K/AKT/mTORC1 ) signaling pathway , thus we present GLS1 as a potential biomarker and therapeutic target for HCC .
Atherosclerosis is a complex immuno-metabolic disease characterized by lipid accumulation and chronic inflammation within arterial walls , leading to cardiovascular events such as stroke and myocardial infarction . Central to the disease are arterial plaques initiated by modified low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) , particularly oxidized LDL , deposited in the arterial intima . This deposition activates tissue-resident macrophages ( TRMs ) , inducing a lipid-loaded " foamy " phenotype . Additionally , endothelial dysfunction promotes monocyte recruitment , differentiation into macrophages , and further foam cell formation . Foamy macrophages were initially identified as anti-inflammatory but have recently shown dual functionality , possibly depending on the disease stage and phenotype . Recent mouse and human studies also identified subsets of " foamy " macrophages with both pro and anti-inflammatory features . This review examines " foamy " macrophage complex roles and phenotypic diversity in atherosclerosis , emphasizing their potential as therapeutic targets to reduce inflammation and slow disease progression .
Chronic neuroinflammation is a key pathological feature of neuropathic pain . The ketogenic diet ( KD ) has demonstrated potential to reduce neuronal excitability and alleviate inflammation in epilepsy , yet its effects and precise mechanisms in neuropathic pain remain elusive . We first observed that beta-hydroxybutyrate ( BHB ) , a key metabolite induced by KD , was reduced in mice following neuropathic pain induced by chronic constriction injury ( CCI ) . Subsequently , we demonstrated that KD effectively alleviated CCI-induced thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia , while mitigating neuroinflammation through reduced microglial activation and pro-inflammatory cytokine levels . BHB reduced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production , which coincided with enhanced mitochondrial membrane potential in microglia , thereby attenuating microglia-mediated inflammatory responses . Both in vivo and in vitro experiments revealed KD-induced upregulation of uncoupling protein 2 ( UCP2 ) , sirtuin 3 ( SIRT3 ) and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha ( PGC-1alpha ) in the spinal dorsal horn . Importantly , SIRT3 deficiency abolished KD ' s protective effects against neuropathic pain and reduced BHB levels , potentially attributable to diminished expression of hepatic ketone body synthases and spinal ketone body-utilizing enzymes . These findings highlight SIRT3 as a promising therapeutic target for neuropathic pain within the ketogenic diet paradigm , providing a foundation for novel therapeutic strategies .
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is a significant contributor to hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . To validate AMPK activation as a therapeutic strategy for MASH-associated liver fibrosis , we investigated the effects of a 4-chloro-benzenesulfonamide derivative named KN21 , a novel AMPK activator , on the liver fibrogenic process in a MASH model . In mice fed a choline-deficient , L-amino acid-defined , high fat diet ( CDAHFD ) , KN21 reduced hepatic steatosis , lipid accumulation , and liver fibrosis . In hepatocyte cells treated with palmitic acid and oleic acid ( PO ) , KN21 attenuated lipid accumulation and the release of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and fibrotic mediators . Hepatic stellate cells stimulated with hepatocyte-derived conditioned medium ( CM ) exhibited increased expression of fibrosis markers , whereas hepatic stellate cells exposed to CM from KN21-treated hepatocytes showed a decrease of fibrosis marker expression . Additionally , KN21 inhibited the activation of human hepatic stellate cells and demonstrated potent antifibrotic activity . These findings underscore the therapeutic potential of pharmacological AMPK activation for the treatment of MASH-associated liver fibrosis .
Alcohol-associated liver disease ( ALD ) is a widely prevalent chronic liver disease caused by alcohol overconsumption . However , the pathogenesis of ALD is complex and has not been fully elucidated . Ring finger protein 2 ( RNF2 ) is associated with the occurrence and development of hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) , but its function in ALD has not been explored . In this study , we investigated the role of RNF2 in ALD and its underlying mechanisms . In vivo , an ALD model was established and adeno-associated virus ( AAV8-shRNA-RNF2 ) was used to knock down RNF Liver injury , hepatic steatosis , and inflammation were assessed and functional studies were conducted in AML-12 cells and macrophages . The study found that hepatic-specific RNF2 knockdown attenuated EtOH-induced liver steatosis and inflammation . Furthermore , RNF2 knockdown significantly alleviated EtOH-mediated lipid accumulation and inflammation . Additionally , RNF2 interacted with ubiquitin-specific peptidase 7 ( USP7 ) and regulated the phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase/protein kinase B ( PI3K/AKT ) signaling pathway . Importantly , inhibition of USP7 or PI3K/AKT signaling pathway suppressed lipid accumulation and inflammation in the ALD model . Our research demonstrated that RNF2 had a novel function of regulating lipid metabolism and inflammation in ALD through its interaction with USP7 and modulation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway .
M1 macrophage polarization is modulated by the release of mitochondrial DNA ( mtDNA ) and induces the inflammatory immune response , which is further increased by the generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species ( mtROS ) . The pyrimidine nucleotide carrier SLC25A33 is located in the mitochondrial inner membrane and is linked to mtDNA synthesis , but its role in the M1 macrophage inflammatory immune response remains unclear . Here , we elucidate the regulatory mechanisms responsible for upregulation of SLC25A33 expression during M1 macrophage polarization , SLC25A33-mediated mtROS production , and the inflammatory response . SLC25A33 expression was significantly elevated in CD14+ monocytes derived from patients with sepsis and LPS/interferon-gamma ( IFN-gamma ) -stimulated peritoneal macrophages ( PMs ) . SLC25A33 was upregulated by ATF4 through the MyD88-PI3K-mTORC1 pathway in LPS/IFN-gamma-stimulated PMs . Furthermore , SLC25A33 increased mtDNA synthesis and the release of mtDNA into the cytosol , which was facilitated by mtROS-mediated voltage-dependent anion channel ( VDAC ) oligomer formation , thereby contributing to activation of the cGAS-STING inflammatory pathway . Conversely , SLC25A33 knockdown and pyridoxal 5 ' -phosphate treatment , which inhibits SLC25A33 activity , decreased mtDNA release and reduced M1 macrophage polarization and associated inflammatory responses . These findings were consistent across in vitro and in vivo sepsis models , as well as in septic patients with liver abscesses . Our findings underscore the significant role of SLC25A33 in inflammation , suggesting that targeting of SLC25A33 could be a promising therapeutic strategy for the management of M1 macrophage-mediated inflammatory diseases , including sepsis .
Recent advances have established lipid droplets as dynamic innate immune hubs coordinating cellular metabolism and defense mechanisms . While previous studies primarily focused on nanomaterials ( NMs ) altering lipid metabolism to influence lipid droplet dynamics , this study pioneers the investigation of NM-induced immune modulation via Toll-like receptor ( TLR ) pathways as a novel regulatory axis for lipid droplets . Building on our prior findings that graphene oxide ( GO ) impaired TLR3-mediated lipid signaling , we systematically explored the role of GO ' s diameter in modulating this process . Mice were subjected to daily intratracheal instillation of three GO variants ( 50-200 nm , <500 nm or > 500 nm ) at 1 mg/kg for 7 days . Although no significant change in body weight or organ coefficient was observed , all GO exposure suppressed lipid staining in mouse lungs and livers , correlating with altered co-localization of TLR3 and perilipin 2 ( PLIN2 ) , critical regulators of lipid droplet biogenesis . Down-regulation of TLR3 signaling components , namely interferon induced protein with tetratricopeptide repeats 1 ( IFIT1 ) , radical S-adenosyl methionine domain containing 2 ( RSAD2 ) , and PLIN2 , occurred in a diameter-dependent manner , with GO 50-200 nm showing the most pronounced effects , likely attributable to the smallest hydrodynamic size and polydispersity index in suspension . This work provides evidence that NM geometry governs TLR-mediated lipid droplet regulation , bridging the knowledge gap between nanotoxicology and immunometabolic cross-talking , a paradigm distinct from conventional lipid metabolism-focused nanotoxicological studies .
Obesity is a growing global health challenge influenced by genetic and environmental factors . With economic development , obesity rates continue to rise globally . Recent research highlights the critical role of gut microbiota in obesity pathogenesis , particularly through microbial metabolites affecting metabolism and energy homeostasis . Recent studies indicate that gut microbiota significantly influences obesity development through metabolic interactions , including the regulation of glucose and lipid metabolism . Gut microbiota is involved in the metabolism of various nutrients such as glucose and lipids , and the change of gut microbiota leads to insulin resistance , adipose tissue accumulation and metabolic disorders , thus mediating the occurrence and development of metabolic diseases . For example , beneficial bacteria such as Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus , which are in high abundance in animal intestinal tract , can prevent obesity by enhancing the intestinal barrier , improving insulin sensitivity and improving metabolic disorders . Many of these effects are mediated by metabolites produced by intestinal microbiota , such as short-chain fatty acids , which play an important role in preventing and treating obesity . In this research review , we used the PubMed database and Google Scholar and web of science to search for relevant literature within recent 20 years on the topic of microbes and microbial metabolites in relation to obesity . Key words used were obesity , metabolic diseases , gut microbiota , metabolic disorders , gut microbial metabolites to search for references . The purpose of this review article was to describe the current knowledge on the impact of gut microbiota and their metabolites on obesity , in order to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the relationship between gut microbiota and obesity for future clinical intervention and prevention of obesity .
Cotton is a globally significant crop , serving as a source of natural fiber for the textile industry and contributing to various other products . Its economic importance is substantial , impacting livelihoods and international trade . However , cotton production faces numerous challenges , including Fusarium wilt caused by Fusarium oxysporum f . sp . vasinfectum ( Fov ) , which can lead to significant yield and fiber quality losses . Plants alter their root exudate profiles in response to pathogens , often selectively enriching for beneficial rhizobacteria with antagonistic activity and plant growth-promoting traits . This study thus aims to characterize bacteria isolated from the rhizosphere of diseased cotton plants . The antifungal activity of 43 isolates was assessed against Fov in vitro . Eight of these inhibited Fov growth by 4 to 9% . 16S rRNA sequencing confirmed these isolates as Bacillus species . These eight Bacillus strains were further examined for their different modes of action in vitro , and their effect on cotton plants in greenhouse experiments challenged with Fov . All eight strains produced chitinases and pectinases , seven demonstrated cellulase and three protease activity , six produced urease , and five siderophores . Only B . subtilis SC11 exhibited phosphate solubilization activity . Seed treatments revealed that B . subtilis SC10 and B . subtilis SC11 were the standout treatments reducing Fov-caused symptoms by ~83% compared to Fov-inoculated control plants and most significantly improved plant growth and antioxidant activity . In detail , B . subtilis SC11 increased shoot and root dry weight by 160 and 250% , respectively . B . subtilis SC10 increased peroxidase activity by ~143% and ascorbate peroxidase activity by ~60% , while in B . subtilis SC11 treated plants superoxide dismutase activity increased by ~100% . Bacillus treatments effectively mitigated lipid peroxidation , achieving up to 4% reduction ( B . subtilis SC10 , B . halotolerans SC15 ) , and decreased HO accumulation by up to 4% ( B . halotolerans SC32 ) compared to the Fov control . Principle component analysis revealed that regarding plant growth parameters , the treatments , and controls were distributed differentially across PC1 and PC2 , with 30 and 62% data variance , respectively , showing the effectiveness of Bacillus isolates in greenhouse experiments . The findings of this study will contribute to the development of sustainable biocontrol strategies for managing Fusarium wilt in cotton .
Histone modifications are widespread in microalgae , a group of photoautotrophs capable of transforming CO to diverse bio-products . However , the functional roles of histone modifying enzymes for carbon metabolism remain largely unexplored . Here , we unveiled the involvement of a JmjC domain-containing histone demethylase ( CrHDM1 ) , a previously uncharacterized epigenetic regulator , in carbon metabolism by modulating a transcription factor in the model alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii ( thereafter Chlamydomonas ) . CrHDM1 disruption resulted in increased carbohydrate levels including starch yet attenuated protein and lipid levels in Chlamydomonas , which were restored by genetic complementation with the CrHDM1 gene . Phosphorus Responsive Regulator1 ( PSR1 ) , a transcription factor involved in starch storage regulation , was transcriptionally upregulated by CrHDM1 disruption , along with the upregulation of starch synthesis genes . PSR1 knockout in the crhdm1 mutant impaired the CrHDM1 disruption-associated starch increase . CrHDM1 , localized in the nucleus , was demonstrated to specifically demethylate H3K4me2 in vitro . Besides , chromatin immunoprecipitation-quantitative PCR experiments showed that the H3K4me2 level at the PSR1 promoter , which positively correlated with PSR1 transcript level , was negatively regulated by CrHDM Collectively , our findings uncover a newly discovered epigenetic regulator-transcription factor module involved in starch storage and provide valuable insights into the epigenetic regulation of carbon metabolism in Chlamydomonas .
Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of mortality worldwide , with dyslipidemia as a major modifiable risk factor . This study aimed to assess 25-year trends in lipid-lowering agent consumption in Croatia from 2000 to We conducted a population-based analysis using IMS and IQVIA databases , calculating drug utilization in defined daily doses per 1000 inhabitants per day ( DDD/1000 ) and evaluating financial expenditures and prescribing patterns . Over the study period , total lipid-lowering drug consumption increased more than 30-fold , from 91 DDD/1000 in 2000 to 56 DDD/1000 in Statins , particularly atorvastatin and rosuvastatin , drove this trend , while the uptake of PCSK9 inhibitors and ezetimibe reflected an evolving therapeutic landscape . Financial expenditures peaked in 2010 , declined until 2015 , and rose again by 2023 , with average drug prices per DDD decreasing significantly . The observed increase in lipid-lowering therapy correlated with enhanced adherence to international guidelines and expanded patient access . However , administrative barriers and restrictive reimbursement policies continue to limit optimal utilization of newer agents . These findings underscore the importance of evidence-based policy development to address clinical inertia and improve cardiovascular outcomes in Croatia .
Allocation of leaf phosphorus ( P ) among different functional fractions represents a crucial adaptive strategy for optimizing P use . However , it remains challenging to monitor the variability in leaf P fractions and , ultimately , to understand P-use strategies across diverse plant communities . We explored relationships between five leaf P fractions ( orthophosphate P , P ( i ) ; lipid P , P ( L ) ; nucleic acid P , P ( N ) ; metabolite P , P ( M ) ; and residual P , P ( R ) ) and 11 leaf economic traits of 58 woody species from three biomes in China , including temperate , subtropical and tropical forests . Then , we developed trait-based models and spectral models for leaf P fractions and compared their predictive abilities . We found that plants exhibiting conservative strategies increased the proportions of P ( N ) and P ( M ) , but decreased the proportions of P ( i ) and P ( L ) , thus enhancing photosynthetic P-use efficiency , especially under P limitation . Spectral models outperformed trait-based models in predicting cross-site leaf P fractions , regardless of concentrations ( R = 50-88 vs 34-74 ) or proportions ( R = 43-70 vs 06-45 ) . These findings enhance our understanding of leaf P-allocation strategies and highlight reflectance spectroscopy as a promising alternative for characterizing large-scale leaf P fractions and plant P-use strategies , which could ultimately improve the physiological representation of the plant P cycle in land surface models .
Gold nanoparticles ( AuNPs ) functionalized with antibodies offer significant potential to advance biomedical applications due to their unique optical properties and the specificity of antibody-antigen interactions . A critical aspect of optimizing these AuNP-based systems is the effective adsorption of antibodies on the nanoparticle surface . Recent research has focused on developing new strategies to enhance antibody loading and orientation , with the aim of improving antibody activity . However , the lack of robust analytical methods for accurately quantifying the activity of conjugated antibodies and comparing immobilization strategies remains a significant challenge . Herein , for the first time , we describe the effect of DPPC and DOPC lipid coatings on the interaction of phenylalanine functionalized gold nanoparticles ( AuPhe NPs ) with immunoglobulin G ( IgG ) antibody under varying pH ( approximately 6 , 4 , and 9 ) and buffer systems ( HEPES and phosphate ) . Using several techniques , we reveal the superior performance of lipid-coated AuPhe NPs , particularly those coated with DPPC , compared to native AuPhe NPs in terms of stability , antigen-binding activity , and antibody orientation . Between the two different buffer systems , antibody adsorption on AuPhe NPs is significantly higher in the zwitterionic buffer ( HEPES ) compared to the negatively charged phosphate buffer . Furthermore , at lower pH , native AuPhe NPs and DOPC-coated AuPhe NPs undergo aggregation , and DPPC-coated AuPhe NPs remain stable . Considering the vital role of lipid coatings under varying physiological conditions , we propose that lipid-coated AuPhe NPs serve as robust platforms for diverse biomedical applications , ensuring enhanced stability and efficiency in antibody-mediated processes . FAU - Tabassum , Huma
BACKGROUND/AIMS : Caloric restriction ( CR ) has proven to be the most effective dietary intervention for reducing cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) associated with obesity . Depending on the age of the mice the effect of caloric restriction was diverse . Therefore , the effect of CR on the development of atherosclerosis in young and adult ApoE/LDLr ( -/- ) mice was evaluated . METHODS : Eight-week-old and 20-week-old male mice received a control diet . Young mice were fed for eight weeks , whereas adult mice for 5 weeks . To assess whether individual housing influenced the tested parameters , control animals were housed in colony cages ( AL ) or individually ( stressAL ; sAL ) and fed ad libitum . Individually housed caloric restriction ( CR ) mice received a 30% less diet compared to AL group . RESULTS : The body weight of CR mice was significantly lower compared to the AL and sAL groups . TCh and LDL levels were significantly increased in young CR mice . No differences in adult animals were observed . TAG levels significantly decreased in both young and adult CR mice . CR induced atherosclerosis in young mice . The FMO3 gene was upregulated in young animals . Microbiota composition changed . At the genus level , compared to the control , CR group exhibited a higher relative abundance of the Enterococcus , Clostridium_sensu_stricto_1 , Rikenella and a lower relative abundance of the CAG_352 ( P< 05 ) genera . CONCLUSION : Caloric restriction exacerbated atherosclerosis in young ApoE/LDLr ( -/- ) mice .
Autism spectrum disorder ( ASD ) is characterized by persistent problems in speech , social interaction , restricted and repetitive behavior patterns , lack of interest , and intellectual disabilities . Currently , there is no effective treatment available for the core symptoms of ASD . Among various treatments , herbal pharmacological treatments have shown promising results with fewer side effects , especially cannabidiol ( CBD ) treatment for the core symptoms and co-morbidities of ASD . The current study was performed to explore the therapeutic potential of CBD oil supplementation against the valproic acid ( VPA ) -induced autism mouse model . The autism mouse model was developed by exposing albino BALB/c mouse fetuses to VPA ( 600 mg/kg ) on gestational day On postnatal day ( PND ) -21 , the male pups from both control and diseased groups were further divided into the following treatment groups : ( I ) control saline group , ( II ) VPA-exposed group , ( III ) VPA + CBD oil ( 100 mg/kg/day/orally ) group , and ( IV ) standard group of VPA + risperidone ( RISP ) ( 5 mg/kg/day/orally ) for 3 consecutive weeks . VPA mice displayed autistic behaviors upon delivery , such as increased anxiety levels , delayed response to painful stimuli , and impaired social interaction . VPA mice also showed depletion of glutathione and other antioxidant levels . CBD oil improved these dysfunctions , as seen through biochemical analysis and morphological staining of the hippocampal region , prefrontal cortex , and Purkinje cells . These findings showed that CBD oil treatment significantly improved behavioral abnormalities and lowered the oxidative stress in the autistic mouse model by acting as an antioxidant .
Methionine is an essential amino acid that influences key cellular processes . This study examined how methionine concentrations representing deficiency ( 0 muM ) , estimated uterine concentration in cows ( 31 muM ) , and a supra-physiological concentration ( i . e . rumen-protected methionine ; 57 muM ) affect bovine preimplantation embryo development . When compared to 31 and 57 muM methionine , methionine deficiency ( 0 muM ) reduced the percentage of zygotes developing into blastocysts by day 5 and the proportion of blastocysts that hatched at day 5 , 5 , and Blastocysts produced without methionine developed slowly , had fewer total , CDX2+ ( trophectoderm ) , and SOX2+ ( inner cell mass ) cells , and exhibited higher apoptosis and lipid content . Increasing methionine from 31 to 57 muM did not improve blastocyst development or hatching but increased CDX2+cells number and reduced apoptosis and lipid content . Methionine concentration had no effect on survival to vitrification . In conclusion , the absence of methionine reduces the competence of zygotes to become a blastocyst and has detrimental effects on the properties of those blastocysts . A higher methionine concentration increases trophectoderm cell number , reduces apoptosis , and lowers lipid accumulation . These findings suggest that nutritional strategies to increase methionine availability during the periconceptional period may enhance blastocyst competence for continued development .
BACKGROUND : Fenofibrate improves gut barrier function and reduces serum lipids in purpose-bred dogs with induced diabetes mellitus ( DM ) , but its effects in dogs with naturally occurring DM are unknown . OBJECTIVES : Determine the effects of fenofibrate on markers of systemic and pancreatic inflammation , markers of gut barrier function , lipoprotein profiles , and glycemic control in dogs with naturally occurring DM . ANIMALS : Sixteen client-owned dogs with naturally occurring , uncomplicated DM . METHODS : Longitudinal cohort study . Dogs were treated with fenofibrate ( Tricor , 6-10 mg/kg , P . O . , once daily ) for 21 days . Interstitial glucose , serum cytokines , lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , pancreatic lipase , and lipid profiles were compared between baseline and day 21 using paired t-tests and Wilcoxon signed-rank tests . RESULTS : Fenofibrate had no effect on glycemic control , serum cytokines , or serum pancreatic lipase . Compared to baseline , the concentrations of serum LPS decreased at day 21 by ( mean +/- SD ) 15 +/- 24% ( 95% CI 2-28% , p = 03 ) , serum triglycerides decreased by 36 +/- 39% ( 95% CI 15-56% , p = 002 ) , and serum cholesterol decreased by 20 +/- 14% ( 95% CI 12-28% , p < 0001 ) . CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE : Fenofibrate treatment was not associated with a decrease in markers of systemic or pancreatic inflammation . In diabetic dogs , short-term fenofibrate treatment appears to be safe , and the improvement in gut barrier function and lipid profiles might lead to long-term benefits , such as reduction in pancreatitis risk and frequency of signs of gastrointestinal disease .
Salt-inducible kinases ( SIKs ) are a subfamily of the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) -related kinase family . To be activated , SIKs require phosphorylation in the catalytic kinase domain by liver kinase B In response to extracellular stimulations , their activity can be further regulated through phosphorylation by protein kinase A ( PKA ) and Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases . PKA-mediated SIK inhibition is a major link between G-protein coupled receptor ( GPCR ) activation and the target gene transcription program . All three SIK isoforms , SIK1 , SIK2 , and SIK3 are expressed in adipocytes , with SIK2 being the most abundant in both rodents and humans . SIKs play essential roles in maintaining adipose tissue homeostasis by regulating physiological processes involving insulin signaling , glucose uptake , lipogenesis , and thermogenesis . It has been appreciated that each SIK isoform could play both redundant and unique roles in these physiological processes . Many of the substrates that mediate their physiological functions in adipocytes have been characterized and downstream mechanisms of action have also been proposed . However , due to the functional redundancy of SIKs , one major challenge is to delineate their isoform-specific roles in adipose tissue in vivo using genetic mouse models . In addition , common genetic variants and rare mutations in the SIK genes have been identified to be associated with metabolic , cardiovascular , and developmental conditions , suggesting a translational implication for human disease that deserves investigation . Furthermore , small molecular SIK inhibitors have been developed and shown therapeutic potential in multiple disease areas . Evaluation of their metabolic and cardiovascular effects will be required for future clinical development of SIK inhibitors .
This study examines the antioxidant activities , fatty acid composition , cytotoxicity predictions , and endocrine-disrupting potential of metabolites from orchid methanolic-flower extracts . In silico analyses , including molecular docking , NCI-RDG , FMO , ELF , LOL , and MEP mapping , were conducted to explore noncovalent interactions , electronic properties , reactivity , and charge distribution of key metabolites , providing insights into their bioactivity and mechanisms of action . Antioxidant activity , evaluated via the DPPH assay , showed an IC value of 83 mg/mL for the methanolic extract , outperforming the positive control ( BHT , IC = 00 mg/mL ) . High flavonoid content , expressed as quercetin equivalents , confirmed the presence of bioactive compounds , including quercetin and gallic acid . The fatty acid ( FA ) profile of Anacamptis papilionacea fixed oil , analyzed by GC-MS , revealed palmitic acid , alpha-linolenic acid , 8 , 11 , 14-eicosatrienoic acid , and docosahexaenoic acid as dominant FAs , constituting 47% of the total oil . Molecular docking showed strong binding interactions of these FAs with the human glucocorticoid receptor . Cytotoxicity predictions indicated promising activity against melanoma and lung carcinoma cells , particularly with 8 , 11 , 14-eicosatrienoic acid and docosahexaenoic acid . Endocrine-disrupting potential was evaluated through molecular binding with 14 nuclear receptors , showing varying affinities , particularly for estrogen , androgen , and glucocorticoid receptors . These findings highlight the bioactivity and therapeutic potential of A . papilionacea metabolites , emphasizing their antioxidant , cytotoxic , and receptor-binding capabilities . Further experimental studies are warranted for clinical validation .
Chronic pancreatitis ( CP ) is a progressive and irreversible fibroinflammatory disease that markedly increases susceptibility to pancreatic cancer and remains without effective targeted therapies . Among the genetic contributors to CP , the carboxypeptidase A1 p . Ser282Pro ( CPA1 ( S282P ) ) variant has been proposed to promote disease through misfolding-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress ( ERS ) , although the broader pathogenic landscape remains incompletely defined . This study generated a rabbit model mimicking the human CPA1 ( S282P ) mutation using the SpRY-ABE-17 system . Homozygous CPA1 ( S282P ) rabbits exhibited characteristic human CP phenotypes following alcohol induction , including visceral pain , elevated serum lipase and amylase , inflammatory cell infiltration , and extensive pancreatic fibrosis . Biochemical analyses confirmed that the p . S282P mutation induced CPA1 misfolding and elevated the expression of ERS markers GRP78 and CHOP in both transfected HEK293T cells and homozygous mutant rabbits . Notably , the CPA1 ( S282P ) mutation markedly disrupted intra-pancreatic lipid homeostasis , contributing to the development of CP in mutant rabbits . This study successfully established the first rabbit model of CP that accurately recapitulates CP caused by a defined human point mutation . Additionally , this study provides insights into a previously unrecognized link between CPA1 and intra-pancreatic lipid metabolism , offering a foundation for identifying novel therapeutic targets for human CP . FAU - Yang , Jie
The effects of temperature and lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) encapsulation on mRNA chemical stability were assessed for two model mRNA ( EGFP mRNA , 996 nt ; Fluc mRNA , 1929 nt ) using capillary electrophoresis ( CE ) and ion pair reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography ( IP-RP-HPLC ) to measure mRNA integrity . The apparent degradation rates for unencapsulated ( " naked " ) mRNA were method-dependent for Fluc mRNA , with rates up to 50% greater when measured using CE compared to IP-RP-HPLC . This discrepancy is attributed to differences in mass resolution , separation mechanisms and/or linearity of the two methods and was not observed for EGFP mRNA . The apparent reaction order for naked mRNA degradation varied with storage temperature , being zero-order at 35 degrees C and first-order at 50 degrees C . Encapsulation of mRNA using LNPs slowed mRNA degradation by up to 9-fold relative to naked mRNA controls stored under the same conditions . Encapsulation also induced changes in thermal unfolding patterns . Overall , the results show the benefits and limitations of each analytical method for determining mRNA degradation kinetics and the effects of temperature and LNP encapsulation on mRNA stability . FAU - Barros , Caio H N
Synthetic anion transporters disrupt the homeostasis of cellular anions and may therefore be developed as a promising cancer therapy . Herein , we demonstrated that trifluoromethylation of a benzimidazole-based anion transporter led to up to 84 x 10-fold increase in the anionophoric activity and promising cytotoxicity toward the selected solid tumor cells . The most active compound 6 was able to efficiently elevate intracellular chloride anions , induce the degradation of tubulin , perturb microtubule stability , increase lipid peroxidation , and impair mitochondrial function . This compound predominantly triggered ferroptosis , along with apoptosis as a complementary mechanism , unveiling a new pathway for the anticancer effects of synthetic anion transporters . Furthermore , compound 6 demonstrated potent antitumor activity against HeLa xenografts with minimal side effects and might find high potentials in the field of cancer chemotherapy . FAU - Hong , Xiao-Qiao
Neuroinflammation contributes to the loss of dopamine neurons and motor dysfunctions in Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) . How cell metabolism regulates neuroinflammation by modulating epigenetic modifications is largely unknown . In this study , we found that the expression of phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase ( PHGDH ) which catalyzes the first step of the de novo serine synthesis pathway was mainly expressed in astrocytes and l-methyl-4-phenyl-l , 2 , 3 , 6-tetrahydropyridine ( MPTP ) injection triggered the upregulation of PHGDH in astrocytes in substantia nigra . PHGDH inhibition or knockdown reduced proinflammatory cytokine production in primary astrocytes after LPS ( lipopolysaccharide ) stimulation which was not due to suppressed inflammatory signaling transduction . Mechanistically , PHGDH promotes proinflammatory cytokine transcription by sustaining nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide ( NADH ) accumulation to facilitate histone acetylation of cytokine promoters . Moreover , PHGDH inhibition-induced inflammatory response decreased neurotoxicity in vitro and alleviated astrocytes-mediated neuroinflammation and neurotoxicity in an MPTP mice model . This study reveals the role and mechanism of PHGDH-mediated serine synthesis in promoting the inflammatory response of astrocytes which may provide a potential target for neurological diseases involving neuroinflammation .
Diabetic wounds , especially diabetic foot ulcers , present a major clinical challenge due to delayed healing and prolonged inflammation . Macrophage-fibroblast interactions are essential for wound repair , yet this crosstalk is disrupted in diabetic wounds due to hyperglycemia and bacterial infection . This study investigates the dysfunctional communication between macrophages and fibroblasts , focusing on autocrine , paracrine , and juxtacrine signaling in simulated diabetic environments . Using monoculture and co-culture models of THP-1-derived macrophages and primary human dermal fibroblasts , we simulated conditions of normal glucose , LPS-induced infection , high glucose ( with AGEs ) , and combined high glucose ( with AGEs ) and LPS . Macrophages in hyperglycemic and LPS-infected environments exhibited a pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype with elevated expression of CD80 , and STAT1 and increased production of IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and MMP Fibroblast migration was significantly impaired under high glucose conditions , particularly in paracrine model . Secretome profiling showed heightened pro-inflammatory cytokines and proteases , with reduced anti-inflammatory markers ( IL-10 and VEGF-A ) under hyperglycemic conditions . Paracrine signaling exacerbated the inflammatory response , while juxtacrine signaling showed more moderate effects , conducive to healing . These findings highlight the pathological macrophage-fibroblast crosstalk in diabetic wounds , particularly under hyperglycemic and LPS-infected conditions , offering insights for potential immunomodulatory therapies aimed at restoring effective signaling and improving wound healing outcomes .
The production of bioplastics from marine microorganisms is significantly relevant in the field of biotechnological applications for sustainable ecological management . Nevertheless , the expense associated with PHB production is substantial and regarded as the primary obstacle to its industrialization . In this study , orange peel waste served as a carbon source to enhance PHB production efficiency . Among the 15 strains evaluated , MH 96 was selected for PHB production due to its high salt tolerance and efficient utilization of orange peel as a substrate . The highest producing PHB strain MH96 was genetically identified using 16S rRNA sequencing as Halomonas meridiana and submitted in the GenBank under accession numbers PP The optimal fermentation conditions were evaluated through single-factor optimization . Upon completion of the response surface optimization , the Plackett-Burman and Box-Behnken design experiments were conducted utilizing the outcomes of the single-factor optimization . The final parameters were the inoculum size of 74 , ( NH ) HPO concentration of 0 and pH 37 , and PHB yield of 94 g/L . The characterization of the extracted biopolymer by NMR , FTIR , XRD , and thermal properties was used to examine the properties of the extracted PHB , and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) proves the presence of 2-butenoic acid , 1-methyl ethyl ester , tetradecane , hexadecanoic acid , methyl ester , and docosanoic acid , 8 , 9 , 13-trihydroxy- . Methyl ester , which confirmed the structure of the polymer as PHB .
PURPOSE : To study the relationship between eyelid alterations and the presence of contact lens discomfort ( CLD ) in soft contact lens ( CL ) wearers . METHODS : One hundred thirty-seven CL wearers were included in this cross-sectional study . CLD symptoms were quantified by the Contact Lens Dry Eye Questionnaire ( CLDEQ ) - Participants were also classified considering the CLD effect on wearing time . Non-invasive tear break-up time was measured with the EasyTear ( R ) VIEW + Tearscope , tear film lipid layer thickness was assessed with the LipiView II interferometer , and lid margin parameters , Meibomian gland morphology and function , and lid wiper epitheliopathy were evaluated using slit-lamp biomicroscopy ( SL-D7 , Topcon corp . ) . Correlations between symptoms and signs were analysed , and multivariable regression models were performed . RESULTS : Lid margin thickness ( p = 07 ) , Meibomian gland secretion quality ( p = 02 ) and expressibility ( p = 09 ) showed a significant ( p </= 1 ) simple association with the CLD effect classification , but only lid margin thickness reached statistical significance in the multivariable regression model [odds ratio ( 95 % confidence interval ) : 52 ( 30/87 ) ; p = 015] . No significant ( p </= 05 ) simple linear association was found between the CLDEQ-8 and any of the ocular parameters . CONCLUSIONS : The presence of mild CLD symptoms in soft CL wearers was not consistently associated with any eyelid alteration , except for lid margin thickness . Future studies assessing the impact of lid margin thickness on CLD would be valuable .
Nanocarrier-based drug delivery systems ( nDDSs ) present significant opportunities for improving disease treatment , offering advantages in drug encapsulation , solubilization , stability enhancement , and optimized pharmacokinetics and biodistribution . nDDSs , comprising lipid , polymeric , protein , and inorganic nanovehicles , can be guided by or respond to biological cues for precise disease treatment and management . Equipping nanocarriers with tissue/cell-targeted ligands enables effective navigation in complex environments , while functionalization with stimuli-responsive moieties facilitates site-specific controlled release . These strategies enhance drug delivery efficiency , augment therapeutic efficacy , and reduce side effects . This article reviews recent strategies and ongoing advancements in nDDSs for targeted drug delivery and controlled release , examining lesion-targeted nanomedicines through surface modification with small molecules , peptides , antibodies , carbohydrates , or cell membranes , and controlled-release nanocarriers responding to endogenous signals such as pH , redox conditions , enzymes , or external triggers like light , temperature , and magnetism . The article also discusses perspectives on future developments .
Gut microbiota plays a critical role in maintaining human health by regulating digestion , metabolism , and immune function . Emerging research highlights the potential of dietary interventions , particularly dietary fiber ( DF ) and polyphenols , in modulating gut microbiota composition and function . DF serves as a fermentable substrate for beneficial gut bacteria , promoting the production of short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) . Polyphenols , a diverse group of bioactive compounds selectively modulate microbial populations and contribute to the production of bioactive metabolites with host health benefits . Importantly , the interplay between DF and polyphenols creates a synergistic effect within the gut microbiome , shaping microbial diversity , enhancing SCFAs production , and strengthening gut barrier function , which together support metabolic and immune homeostasis . This review systematically explores the synergistic effects of DF-polyphenol combinations on gut microbiota modulation , microbial metabolites , and their implications for overall health . The combined effects of DF and polyphenols hold promise for targeted nutritional strategies in preventing metabolic disorders and improving gut health . Moreover , the extent of these benefits is influenced by the structural characteristics of DF , the source and dosage of polyphenols , and individual gut microbiota composition . Further research is warranted to optimize DF-polyphenol interactions and facilitate their applications in personalized nutrition and functional food development .
Food postprocessing modifies the structures and properties of starch-lipid complexes , but the impact of amylose content on these changes remains unclear . In this work , starch-lipid complexes with different amylose contents ( waxy corn starch : WC ; normal corn starch : NC ; Gelose 50 : G50 ; and Gelose 80 : G80 ) were prepared and the changes in structures and digestibility following microwave heat-moisture treatment ( M-HMT ) were investigated . Results indicated that M-HMT induced some destruction of helical structures of WC-lipid complexes , accompanied by reduced complexed lipid content , complex index , short-range molecular order , and relative crystallinity . However , for NC-lipid , G50-lipid , and G80-lipid complexes , these characteristic parameters were increased after treatment . Additionally , for the four types of treated complexes , higher amylose content led to higher values of these parameters . Notably , M-HMT endowed complexes with lower digestibility , and complexes with higher amylose content showed stronger enzyme digestion resistance . The treated G80-lipid complexes achieved the highest resistant starch content of 41 % . This work is expected to offer theoretical foundation and practical guidance for industrial or household production of starchy foods with a better health effect .
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory condition of the intestine characterized by mucosal damage and a compromised epithelial barrier . This study explored the protective and therapeutic potential of laminaran derived from the brown seaweed Undaria pinnatifida in promoting mucin secretion and restoring mucosal barrier integrity . Physicochemical analysis revealed laminaran as having a beta- ( 1 --> 3 ) -linked glucose backbone with beta- ( 1 --> 6 ) -linked branches and a molecular weight of 41 kDa . In vitro experiments revealed that laminaran enhanced the expression of mucin-related proteins in a lipopolysaccharide-induced LS174T model . Laminaran also upregulated the expression of sulfotransferases , which are essential for mucin sulfation , and promoted vesicular transport by increasing the expression of vesicle-associated membrane protein 8 and synaptosome-associated protein-23 , facilitating mucin secretion . These effects are mediated through the protein kinase C ( PKC ) pathway , which involves PKCalpha and PKCbetaII . In an in vivo model , laminaran alleviated dextran sulfate sodium-induced colitis , increasing mucus thickness and overall intestinal barrier function . These results suggest that laminaran is a promising therapeutic agent for treating ulcerative colitis , suggesting a novel approach to restoring the mucosal barrier and reducing intestinal inflammation . This study lays the groundwork for developing laminaran-based treatments for ulcerative colitis and other intestinal diseases associated with epithelial barrier dysfunction .
Enhancing food security and nutrition remains a significant global challenge . Edible coatings have been demonstrated to preserve highly perishable fruits to reduce food loss , address chronic undernourishment , minimize health concerns , and improve environmental sustainability . However , existing biobased edible coatings face limitations in functionality and oxygen permeation control , hindering their effectiveness in preserving fruits . In this study , we have developed a multi-functional biobased conformal coating using a dipping process incorporating nanocellulose , bee wax , and curcumin . This innovative coating effectively extends the shelf life of fresh fruits by restraining cellular metabolism , minimizing water loss , and preventing microbial contamination . To tailor oxygen permeation , we have proposed a universal coating thickness power law with high accuracy , along with fruit oxygen barrier lines/bands , ensuring the best preservation performance . Our coating is transparent , washable , and biodegradable while also possessing excellent mechanical strength , antibacterial properties , and antioxidant capabilities . These features make it a promising and environmentally friendly solution for enhancing food security .
This study developed water-in-oil-in-water ( W/O/W ) nanoemulsions ( NEs ) modified with galactose ( GAL ) and chitosan ( CTS ) to encapsulate alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA ) for targeted delivery . The evaluation of physicochemical properties , stability , release characteristics , and in vitro targeting explored the effect of adding GAL to the external aqueous phase , as well as the interaction between GAL and CTS , on the targeted delivery performance of the NEs . The CTS and GAL maintained NE structural stability and thermal resistance through electrostatic interactions , preserving a stable encapsulation rate . The CTS in the external aqueous phase facilitated a three-dimensional network , maintaining flow stability . The in vitro digestion showed <22 % ALA release in gastric fluid and <45 % in intestinal fluid within 2 h . Additionally , in vitro cell experiments showed that NEs increased lipid oxidation , decreased superoxide dismutase activity , and increased lactate dehydrogenase release . The NEs with GAL added to the external aqueous phase demonstrated high uptake in Hepa 1-6 cells , indicating effective liver targeting . Thus , NEs with GAL and CTS could serve as carriers for active compounds , offering a novel strategy for targeted nutrient delivery in the food and pharmaceutical industries .
Milk is a fundamental food matrix that is widely consumed . Milk fat is important for producing dairy products such as butter , cream , cheese and whole milk powder . Aside from flavour , it has been linked to human health and its chemistry can be modulated by various means towards a more healthy fatty acid profile . Industry and stakeholders have different interests in milk fat , based on specific policies which reflect the type of research and funding initiatives currently performed in different countries . This position paper summarizes the current state-of-the-art with regards to milk fat research and industry as well as stakeholder initiatives , and then highlights new developments based on information gathered from North America ( United States and Mexico ) , Europe ( United Kingdom , Spain , Italy , and Finland ) , Africa ( Egypt ) , Asia ( China and Bangladesh ) and Oceania ( New Zealand ) . South America is an important contributor to the dairy industry but will not be considered here and thus this paper must be considered cross-continental rather than global . This manuscript intends to show a wide ' picture ' of milk fat from different angles in different parts of the globe . FAU - Vargas-Bello-Perez , Einar
Novel biodosimetry assays are needed to categorize both acute ionizing radiation injury and delayed effects of radiation exposure , such as radiation-induced lung injury ( RILI ) -associated mortality . In this study , we utilized the C57L/J mouse model , a well-established system for replicating the clinical pathology of RILI . Lung injury was induced using a combination of neutron total-body irradiation ( TBI ) ( 30% of total dose +7% of total dose concomitant gamma rays ) and whole-thoracic X-irradiation ( WTI ) boost for the balance of the required dose at total doses of 9 , 5 , 10 and 5 Gy . The animals were monitored for a period of 180 days postirradiation to evaluate the progression of injury . Both male and female mice were included in the study , with cohorts exposed to either sham dose ( 0 Gy ) or 100% X-ray WTI at 35 Gy ( LD50/180 dose ) to serve as controls . Tissue injury was characterized using whole-body plethysmography , histopathology , and targeted lipidomics . Urinary metabolites were detected using untargeted metabolomic profiling to determine if they could serve as early predictors of RILI survival . A survival rate of 40-45% was observed at 180 days postirradiation consistent with the established LD50/180 value for WTI ( 35 Gy ) , except at 5 Gy , where survival dropped to 20% . Irradiated mice exhibited increased pulmonary immune infiltration and collagen deposition , reduced alveolar spaces , thickened bronchiolar walls , and dose-independent alterations in lipid profiles that were not sex-specific . We developed a multiplex urinary metabolite panel that was associated with RILI and radiation exposure . Some compounds were statistically different between sham-irradiated male and female mice , with sex specific differences at 120 days were observed for homocitrulline , xanthosine , acetyl-arginine , methylhistidine , niacinamide , xanthurenic acid , cyclic adenosine monophosphate , taurine , and prolyl-proline urinary metabolite levels . Baseline differences in sham-irradiated C57L/J mice show sex needs to be considered as a variable when developing biomarker panels for long-term RILI effects . However , urinary metabolite panels can provide excellent to very good sensitivity and specificity at predicting survival from RILI .
BACKGROUND : Immune cell metabolism and metabolic end-products influence the nature and magnitude of immune responses . Various autoimmune and inflammatory diseases are associated with dysregulated cellular metabolism . Intravenous immunoglobulin ( IVIG ) , a therapeutic pooled normal IgG , is extensively used for the immunotherapy of a wide-range of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases . Although several cellular and molecular mechanisms of action of IVIG have been reported , the role of IVIG in modulating the immune cell metabolism remains unknown . OBJECTIVES : To investigate the influence of IVIG on the metabolic events of human immune cells . METHODS : We performed metabolic flux analyses on inflammatory mediators-stimulated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) . Further , intracellular metabolites were extracted from activated PBMCs and subjected to liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry . Untargeted global metabolic profiling of PBMCs was performed to determine the metabolic landscape of immune cells and metabolic reprogramming by IVIG . Targeted lipidomics was used for the mechanistic studies on IVIG-induced lipogenesis . RESULTS : IVIG , and its Fc and F ( ab ' ) fragments regulate the Warburg effect in activated PBMCs depending on the glucose availability . Untargeted global metabolic profiling revealed that IVIG alters the overall metabolic landscape of inflammatory mediators-stimulated PBMCs , blocks prenylation of amino acid cysteine and promotes lipogenesis of well-known anti-inflammatory lipids like diacylglycerol and triacylglycerol by shuttling acetyl-CoA away from the mevalonate pathway . Mechanistically , IVIG-induced lipogenesis was mediated via F ( ab ' ) fragments and dependent on the sialylated glycans of IgG . CONCLUSIONS : Our data indicate that IVIG targets immune cell metabolism and highlights a novel mechanism of action of IVIG in the context of immunotherapy of autoimmune and inflammatory diseases .
Ultraviolet ( UV ) filters are emerging contaminants of great concern that are widely used in personal care products ( PCPs ) . In this study , the concentrations of 15 UV filters in six types of PCP marketed in China were analyzed and the health risks posed by their internal and external exposure were evaluated . 2-ethylhexyl-4-methoxycinnamate ( EHMC ) presented the highest median concentration of 3150 ng/g in PCPs , followed by 2-ethylhexyl salicylate ( 109 ng/g ) and octocrylene ( OC , 1 ng/g ) . The total UV filter concentrations were considerably higher in sunscreens than other PCPs . Total external dermal exposure to UV filters in sunscreen was higher than the total estimated daily dietary intake of UV filters . A physiologically based toxicokinetic model to predict internal UV filter concentrations after sunscreen application for 1 d showed that EHMC had the highest predicted maximum concentration in venous blood at 0770 ng/mL , only one order of magnitude lower than the reference dose . The predicted maximum UV filter concentrations were higher for high-lipid-content tissues than venous blood , consistent with UV filters being lipophilic . OC , EHMC and homosalate made large contributions to the toxic activity assay results , and thus should receive more attention than other UV filters .
Phagocytosis is a key process in human innate immune response . Human macrophages are important phagocytes engulfing and neutralizing pathogens and cell debris . In addition , they modulate the inflammatory process by releasing cytokines and lipid mediators . However , the link between oxylipins and phagocytosis in different macrophage phenotypes remains poorly understood . In order to better understand the link between phagocytosis and the arachidonic acid ( ARA ) cascade , we established a phagocytosis assay in primary human ' inflammatory ' M1- and ' anti-inflammatory ' M2-like macrophages from peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMC ) , representing extremes of macrophage phenotypes . The branches of the ARA cascade were investigated by quantitative targeted proteomics and metabolomics . M1-like macrophages show a higher abundance of cyclooxygenase ( COX ) -2 and its products particularly after LPS stimulus compared to M2-like macrophages . LPS increased phagocytosis in M2-like , but not in M1-like macrophages . We demonstrate that the COX product prostaglandin E2 ( PGE ) modulates the differential effects of LPS on phagocytosis : Via the EP4 receptor PGE signaling suppresses phagocytosis in primary human macrophages . Thus , blockage of COX , e . g . by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs ( NSAID ) , leads to an increase of phagocytosis also in ' inflammatory ' M1-like macrophages . This supports the well-described anti-inflammatory effects of these drugs and underscores the importance of the link between the COX branch of the ARA cascade and the regulation of phagocytosis in human macrophages .
Oxidative stress-induced death of ovarian granulosa cells ( GCs ) is a major driver of ovarian functional disorders associated with follicular atresia . Ferroptosis is a key factor in the onset and progression of various ovarian oxidative stress-related diseases , making it a potential target for enhancing reproductive health . Recently , 3D cultured human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells ( 3D hUCMSCs ) spheroids have exhibited promising advantages in protecting GCs from oxidative damage . However , it is unclear whether they represent a viable therapeutic strategy for mitigating reproductive failure associated with abnormal follicular atresia by modulating ferroptosis . This study demonstrated that 3D hUCMSC spheroids can effectively protect GCs from hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) -induced oxidative stress and ferroptosis . Additionally , iron overload and lipid peroxidation are two essential features of ferroptosis . 3D hUCMSC spheroids effectively regulate iron uptake and storage to mitigate HO-induced iron overload . Furthermore , 3D hUCMSC spheroids mitigate lipid peroxidation induced by HO by restoring GSH metabolic balance and preventing GPX4 inactivation . Mechanistically , the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) signaling pathway was significantly activated by 3D hUCMSC spheroid treatment . Our findings reveal that Nrf2 knockdown inhibited the 3D hUCMSC spheroids-mediated resistance of GCs to HO-induced ferroptosis , and Nrf2 knockdown led to increased iron uptake , resulting in substantial lipid peroxidation through the Fenton reaction , thereby making GCs more susceptible to ferroptosis . This process may involve the ROS-Nrf2-Fe ( 2+ ) cycle . Significantly , 3D hUCMSC spheroids can mitigate HO-induced ferroptosis in GCs by regulating the ROS-Nrf2-Fe ( 2+ ) cycle . Finally , we confirmed the above results that 3D hUCMSC spheroids ameliorate ovarian oxidative damage in premature ovarian failure ( POF ) rats . In conclusion , we demonstrated that 3D hUCMSC spheroids regulate oxidative stress and iron homeostasis through the Nrf2 pathway , thereby providing a potential therapeutic target for anovulatory disorders .
Free Fatty Acid Receptor 2 ( FFA2 ) , also known as GPR43 , is a receptor activated by short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) with fewer than six carbons in their aliphatic chains . This receptor is expressed in immune cells , adipose tissue , the gastrointestinal tract , and pancreatic islet cells , where it plays a crucial role in the modulation of inflammation , lipid metabolism , insulin secretion , and appetite regulation . Extensive research has been conducted to elucidate the structural attributes and physiological functions of FFA Furthermore , several synthetic agonists have been developed for FFA2 that can preferentially activate certain G-proteins , demonstrating potential pharmacological advantages in both in vivo and in vitro studies . Herein , we review the structure and physiological functions of FFA2 and its synthetic ligands , discussing the structural basis of FFA2 ' s biased signaling and the potential role of biased ligands targeting this receptor in the treatment of metabolic and neurodegenerative diseases .
Galls induced by Espinosa nothofagi ( Hymenoptera ) on Nothofagus obliqua ( Nothofagaceae ) buds exhibit tissue compartmentalization , with an inner compartment ( IC ) specialized for larval nutrition and an outer compartment ( OC ) associated with defense and protection . Although previous studies have linked reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) to functional specialization in galls , comprehensive analyses of oxidative stress and antioxidant systems in distinct gall compartments are still limited . Additionally , N . obliqua is a deciduous species with active secondary growth in spring , which coincides with gall development and potentially influences host redox dynamics . This study evaluated ROS production , lipid peroxidation ( MDA ) , and the activity of enzymatic and nonenzymatic antioxidant systems in gall compartments and nongalled stems ( NGS ) . We hypothesized that ROS and antioxidant systems in galls are compartmentalized according to their function and that secondary growth in NGS leads to ROS accumulation , which is counteracted by antioxidant defenses . Both histochemical and quantitative analyses revealed low oxidative stress in the IC , which was supported by elevated dehydroascorbate reductase activity . The OC presented increased HO levels and superoxide dismutase and glutathione reductase activities , indicating exposure to environmental stressors . NGS resulted in the highest ROS levels , which were associated with intense cambial activity , along with strong enzymatic antioxidant responses . The colocalization of HO and flavonoids suggests that these compounds act as effective ROS scavengers in both galls and NGS . Although each organ relies on distinct strategies , all effectively prevent membrane damage through efficient enzymatic and flavonoid-based antioxidant mechanisms . These findings demonstrate the functional compartmentalization of oxidative stress and defense , highlighting the role of redox balance during secondary growth and gall development .
Interactions between rumen microorganisms and their metabolites contribute to milk yield and milk fat content in dairy cows . However , whether rumen microbes and host metabolism affect fatty acid synthesis in milk is unknown . In this study , we investigated the potential regulatory mechanisms affecting the unsaturated fatty acid content of Binglangjiang buffalo by using macrogenomics and metabolomics . Macrogenomic analysis showed that Bacteroides was significantly more abundant in the high UFA group ( HF ) , contributing to the improvement of functions related to fatty acid synthesis . Then , we found that the rumen microbiota of the HF group was enriched in 2 important pathways involved in lipid metabolism ( i . e . , fatty acid biosynthesis and fatty acid metabolism ) , suggesting that more fatty acids were synthesized in the HF group . Metabolomics analyses showed that most of the UFA were more abundant in the HF group , which was also confirmed by the quantification of related metabolic pathways in milk fatty acids , suggesting that the HF group has a higher capacity to synthesize MUFA and PUFA . Correlation analysis of rumen lipid metabolic pathways and metabolites revealed that metabolic pathways such as fatty acid biosynthesis , fatty acid metabolism , metabolic pathways , and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) signaling pathway , which were significantly enriched in the HF group compared with the low UFA group , were significantly and positively correlated with multiple UFA . The synthesis of UFA is mainly influenced by Bacteroides , Prevotella , and Bacteroidaceae , and regulated by fatty acid biosynthesis , fatty acid metabolism , and PPAR signaling pathways , which together influence the synthesis of UFA in buffaloes .
In addition to the metabolic and health status of cows at parturition , intrauterine conditions , the calving process , and colostrum feeding may affect endocrine and metabolic pathways in the neonate . Forty-six clinically healthy cows without dystocia were enrolled , along with their calves . Blood samples were collected from cows ( 4 h postpartum [p . p . ] ) and calves ( 4 , 12 , and 24 h p . p . ) . Calves were fed colostrum from their dams immediately after blood sampling at 4 and 12 h p . p . Concentrations of glucose , insulin , nonesterified fatty acids ( NEFA ) , IGF-1 , and prolactin ( PRL ) , as well as activities of aspartate-aminotransferase and gamma-glutamyltransferase were measured in the plasma of cows . In calves , we measured various endocrine and metabolic parameters related to protein , glucose , and lipid metabolism ( e . g . , NEFA , phospholipids [PL] , total cholesterol [TC] , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C] , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [HDL-C] ) , IgG , glucose , glucagon , and insulin . Pearson correlation coefficients among parameters measured in cows and calves were calculated . At 4 h p . p . ( i . e . , before colostrum feeding ) , maternal glucose was positively correlated with glucose ( r = 29 ) and NEFA in calves ( r = 25 ) . Plasma NEFA in dams was negatively correlated with fat metabolism ( PL : r = -31 , HDL-C : r = -32 ) and plasma IgG ( r = -28 ) in calves at 4 h p . p . Positive correlations were identified between the glucose of dams and calves ( 12 h p . p . : r = 26 ; 24 h p . p . : r = 45 ) . Maternal NEFA was positively associated with calf lipid metabolism at 24 h p . p . ( PL : r = 44 , TC : r = 39 , LDL-C : r = 37 , HDL-C : r = 36 ) . Primarily positive and significant correlations were detected between maternal PRL and lipid metabolism-related parameters in calves ( NEFA at 12 h p . p . : r = 26 , PL at 12 h p . p . : r = 31 ; PL at 24 h p . p . : r = 57 , TC at 24 h p . p . : r = 62 , LDL-C at 24 h p . p . : r = 48 , and HDL-C at 24 h p . p . : r = 69 ) . In conclusion , the metabolic status of neonates is partly associated with the metabolism of their mothers before the first feeding , whereas later associations between cow and calf are likely due to colostrum feeding .
G-quadruplexes ( G4s ) are non-canonical DNA structures that have proved to play a pivotal role in various biological processes , including telomere maintenance and gene expression regulation . Owing to their prevalence in tumor cells , G4s have emerged as promising targets for cancer therapy , with a substantial body of research demonstrating the potential of G4 ligands as anti-cancer tools . Nonetheless , a comprehensive multi-omics study to fully elucidate the mode of action of G-quadruplex ligands is still lacking . Such an investigation would be crucial for advancing the development of potent G4-based therapies against cancer . Herein , we employed a multi-omics approach , integrating transcriptomics , proteomics , and metabolomics , to identify key signaling pathways that mediate the anti-cancer effects of well-characterized G4-binding agents ( berberine , pyridostatin and RHPS4 ) on human cervical adenocarcinoma ( HeLa ) cells . Particularly , we analyzed gene expression changes using RNA sequencing , quantified proteins by liquid-chromatography tandem mass spectrometry and examined metabolite levels via nuclear magnetic resonance . Our results revealed that , under the investigated experimental conditions , berberine treatment had only negligible cellular effects . In contrast , pyridostatin induced significant changes at the transcriptomic , proteomic , and metabolomic levels , decreasing the abundance of enzymes involved in cellular energy production , reducing the availability of precursors for lipid and nucleotide biosynthesis , and depleting essential cofactors and enzymes required for redox balance . Notably , RHPS4 could selectively disrupt mitochondrial activity , possibly through the specific stabilization of mitochondrial G-quadruplex structures . Overall , our findings provide a valuable multi-omics perspective on the cellular changes driven by G-quadruplex binders , that may accelerate the development of effective anti-cancer G4-targeted therapies .
Herein , an active curdlan-based edible film was successfully developed via an efficient solution casting method . The structural , physicochemical , and antimicrobial properties of the films were evaluated following the incorporation of six natural antimicrobial agents . Comprehensive characterization techniques , including scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy ( FTIR ) , light transmittance measurements , and X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , confirmed the robust film-forming capacity of the curdlan matrix . Among the tested additives , nisin proved the most effective , significantly improving the film ' s thermal stability and mechanical performance . The resulting CLGF-NISIN film demonstrated superior properties , achieving a tensile strength of 91 MPa , a Young ' s modulus of 56 MPa , and an elongation at break of 51 % . Additionally , hydrophobicity was markedly enhanced , as indicated by a contact angle ( CA ) of 15 degrees , water solubility ( WS ) of 64 % , and water vapor permeability ( WVP ) of 69 x 10 ( -14 ) g . m ( -1 ) . s ( -1 ) . Pa ( -1 ) . Functionally , the films exhibited strong antimicrobial efficacy against Escherichia coli ( E . coli ) and Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) . When applied to salmon fillets , the CLGF-NISIN film effectively preserved organoleptic qualities , inhibited lipid oxidation , and maintained microbial safety during refrigerated storage . Collectively , these findings underscore the potential of CLGF-NISIN films as a sustainable , and high-performance packaging solution for extending the shelf life of perishable seafood products .
Phenethyl isothiocyanate ( PEITC ) has been recognized for its potential effects in various human diseases . However , the impact of PEITC on adipocyte differentiation and its underlying molecular mechanisms is not well understood . This study investigates the effects of PEITC on adipocyte differentiation and elucidates the molecular mechanisms involved in Nrf2 activation . The effects of PEITC on adipocyte differentiation were assessed in C3H10T1/2 and 3T3-L1 cells . Nrf2-induced effects by PEITC were examined in Nrf2 knockout ( KO ) MEF and Keap1 KO H1299 cells . The interaction between PEITC and Keap1 was evaluated using thermal shift assays and Co-immunoprecipitation experiments . Reconstitution of cysteine mutants of Keap1 in Keap1 KO cells was used to elucidate a critical amino acid for the PEITC-induced Nrf2 stabilization . The initial stages of adipogenesis were crucial for PEITC ' s anti-adipogenic effects in C3H10T1/2 and 3T3-L1 cells . PEITC increased Nrf2 protein expression , but this induction was absent in Keap1 KO cells . Thermal shift assays with the purified BTB domain of Keap1 confirmed a direct interaction with PEITC . Re-expression of Keap1 in Keap1 KO cells showed that the cysteine residue at position 151 is essential for PEITC-induced Nrf2 expression and the disruption of the Nrf2-Keap1 complex . PEITC was found to activate Nrf2-mediated gene expression and inhibit adipocyte differentiation , at least partially , through Nrf2-dependent mechanisms . This study confirms the anti-adipogenic effects of PEITC . Mechanistic investigations demonstrate that PEITC interacts with Keap1 and that the cysteine residue ( C151 ) of Keap1 is critical for PEITC ' s effects on Nrf2 activation .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Overweight and obesity , usually resulting from excess calorie intake , pose significant health challenges in modern societies and contribute to the development of chronic metabolic disorders . Gut microbes have been recognized as key regulators of energy utilization and gastrointestinal health . In this study , we investigated the effects of probiotics Lactobacillus plantarum strain GKM3 on overweight and obese subjects in a double-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled clinical trial . METHODS : Participants , aged 20-40 with body mass index between 0-9 and body fat percentages over 25% for males and 30% for females , were divided into a placebo group ( n=19 ) and a probioitcs group ( n=40 ) , receiving capsules containing either a placebo or the probiotics GKM3 for four weeks . RESULTS : Our findings demonstrated that supplementation with strain GKM3 at 1g per day over the 4-week period significantly increased bowel movement frequency and alleviated symptoms such as gastroesophageal reflux , nausea , abdominal pain , and constipation . Fecal lipid analysis revealed elevated levels of triglycerides and total cholesterol compared to the placebo group . Microbiota analysis showed a significant reduction in obesity-associated taxa ( Alcaligenaceae , Fusobacteriaceae , Acidaminococcus , Fusobacterium , and Megamonas ) and an increase in beneficial genera ( Akkermansia and Lactobacillus ) following probiotic intervention . CONCLUSION : Our study suggests that the strain GKM3 modulates gut flora , leading to reduced fat absorption and improved gastrointestinal functions in overweight and obese individuals .
Macrophages are particularly prone to inflammation and oxidative stress upon exogenous stimulus . Previous investigations have shown that lauric acid ( LRA ) exerts anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects , however , the molecular mechanism remains elusive . This study aims to elucidate the function and molecular mechanisms by which LRA provided a defense against inflammation and oxidative stress brought by linoleic acid ( LA ) , both in vivo and in vitro . Feeding trial results indicated that dietary LA led to severe inflammation and impaired antioxidant capacity in head kidney of large yellow croaker . The gene and protein expressions of inflammation-related were upregulated and those of antioxidant defense were down-regulated in the LA diet group , which were reversed by glycerol monolaurate ( LRA derivative ) . Meanwhile , in macrophages , LRA suppressed the expressions of p-ERK and p-JNK and the gene expressions of pro-inflammatory factors induced by excessive LA . G protein coupled receptor 84 ( GPR84 , endogenous receptor of LRA ) disturbance did not alter LRA-induced ERK and JNK MAPK pathways and pro-inflammatory gene expressions decline . Besides , LRA decreased reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) level and increased the expressions of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) . And blockage of NRF2 reversed the protective effect of LRA-mediated the protection against oxidative stress . Collectively , these results demonstrated that LRA attenuated LA-induced inflammation by suppressing ERK and JNK MAPK pathways and oxidative stress by activating NRF2 signaling in macrophages . These findings revealed that the function and molecular mechanisms of LRA alleviating inflammation and oxidative stress in macrophages , which provides new insights for enhancing immune cell function in vertebrates .
OBJECTIVE : De novo lipogenesis ( DNL ) is associated with prostate cancer ( PCa ) progression , while fatty acid synthase ( FASN ) overexpression is a hallmark of DNL . Palmitate , its main product , is a saturated fatty acid that supports PCa growth . Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) , which can be acquired from the microenvironment , undergo peroxidation more readily and affect membrane fluidity . Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) is a prototype PUFA omega-3 produced inefficiently in human cells . Its levels are low in PCa cells compared to normal cells . We hypothesize that excess DHA may reprogram lipid metabolism and induce cell growth suppression . METHODS : Androgen-responsive LNCaP , castration-resistant cells C4-2 and 22Rv1 , human PCa castration-resistant organoids , and prostate cancer xenografts were exposed to DHA . RESULTS : DHA accumulated into lipid droplets as triacylglycerols and cholesterol esters , led to increased phospholipid acyl chain unsaturation and altered phospholipid ratio , a known trigger of endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress . DHA caused a decrease in sterol regulatory element-binding protein ( SREBP ) transcriptional program , which , in turn , led to decreased expression of FASN . The subsequent reduction in DNL caused downregulation of the androgen receptor ( AR ) and its splice variant AR-V In addition , beta-oxidation was enhanced , and DHA was preferentially oxidized over palmitate . Glucose oxidation also increased in the presence of DHA . Finally , DHA led to ROS overproduction , oxidative damage , and ER stress . CONCLUSIONS : DHA reduces the growth of hormone-sensitive and castration-resistant PCa both in vitro and in vivo via deregulation of lipid metabolism .
Fish granulomatous diseases induced by Nocardia seriolae have caused significant economic losses in global aquaculture . Understanding the structural and genetic basis of N . seriolae ' s survival and immune evasion strategies is crucial . However , while some aspects of its pathogenicity have been explored , a comprehensive characterization of its ultrastructural features and the associated genetic determinants , especially in direct correlation , has remained incompletely elucidated . In this study , we utilized specialized staining methods to further characterize the pathology of chronic granulomatous inflammation induced by N . seriolae in largemouth bass ( Micropterus salmoides ) . Using scanning electron microscope ( SEM ) and transmission electron microscope ( TEM ) , we revealed further insights into the morphological ( surface structure , cell wall ) and intracellular features ( mesosomes , ribosomes , lipids ) of N . seriolae , alongside diverse division patterns . Through genomic analysis , the gene clusters related to cell wall synthesis and cell division were characterized , including peptidoglycan , arabinogalactan , mycolic acids ( MAs ) synthesis , and the division and cell wall ( DCW ) gene cluster , highlighting the conservation and potential functions of these genes in these processes . In conclusion , these findings provide crucial foundational knowledge regarding the ultrastructure and genetic determinants potentially involved in the pathogenicity of N . seriolae . By integrating detailed ultrastructural observations with genomic insights , this study enhances our understanding of its complex biology and aims to strengthen the foundation for the development of prevention , control , and detection methods for fish granulomatous diseases .
AIM : We aimed to determine whether inhibiting xanthine oxidase ( XO ) activity and NLRP-3 activation in the liver with febuxostat could influence the progression of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) . METHODS : Sixty-four MASLD patients were divided into two groups : 32 patients received 80 mg of febuxostat daily , while the other 32 patients received 400 mg of vitamin E twice daily for 24 weeks . A gastroenterologist assessed the degree of steatosis using Fibroscan and controlled attenuation parameter ( CAP ) measurements at baseline and after six months . Additionally , hepatic steatosis index ( HSI ) , HAIR-score , and levels of NLRP-3 , TIM-3 , HOMA-IR , MDA , uric acid , lipid profile , and liver function tests were measured before and after treatment . RESULTS : Improvement in steatosis was observed in 50 % of febuxostat group and 9 % of vitamin E group . Both groups showed a significant reduction in CAP scores , with more pronounced decrease in vitamin E group ( p < 001 ) compared to febuxostat group ( p = 001 ) . Febuxostat group exhibited significantly lower levels of NLRP-3 , MDA , TIM-3 , and uric acid compared to vitamin E group . HSI , HAIR score , and liver functions improved similarly in both groups . CONCLUSION : Febuxostat appears to be effective in reducing steatosis in MASLD patients , suggesting its potential as a treatment option for non-cirrhotic MASLD . CLINICALTRIALS : gov identifier is NCT05574036 , Registered October 6 , 2022 - Retrospectively .
Nitro-fatty acids ( NO-FAs ) are endogenous electrophilic signalling modulators , and some of them have been proposed as drug candidates . The main ones include nitro-oleic acid ( NO-OA ) and other derivatives of unsaturated fatty acids such as nitro-linoleic acid ( NO-LA ) . In this study , we describe the behavior of 9/10-NO-OA , 10-NO-LA and the conjugated nitro-linoleic acid ( 9/12-NO-cLA ) in a model POPC ( 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine ) membrane using molecular dynamics and selected experimental approaches . We showed that when loaded in liposomes , NO-FAs undergo degradation ( a decay reaction ) to a very limited extent , in contrast to the free molecular form in an aqueous environment . This was confirmed by the electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopic analysis of NO radical release . In general , NO-FAs suppress membrane hydration , especially in the segment where the ester groups are located . Further , in the presence of NO-FAs , there is increased membrane fluidity and a decrease in the degree of lipid order . These effects are greater for NO-FAs than for their non-nitrated versions . The presence of a nitro group in close contact with the polar head groups was confirmed . This drives the tilt of the lipid chain which in turn induces membrane disorder . Protonated NO-FAs penetrated more easily/deeper into the membrane structure than the dissociated forms and this makes the membrane bilayer surface more negatively charged based on zeta potential measurement . We also found that NO-FAs incorporated into POPC liposomes retained their ability to activate the Nrf2 pathway . This was documented by an increased expression of heme oxygenase-1 at the level of mRNA , with a parallel decrease in protein levels of Keap1 , in murine macrophage RAW7 cells . The NO-FAs treatment resulted in an increase in intracellular NO level in vitro as determined by a genetically encoded G-geNOp sensor . This was confirmed at statistically significant level only for NO-OA , not for NO-LA or NO-cLA . The results indicate that biologically relevant NO release may be strictly dependent on which NO-FA is investigated . This study supports the hypothesis that NO-FAs are distributed ( co-localized ) in cells and tissues in the lipid or aqueous phase , which affects whether they are mobile , stable , and thus biologically active .
The present study aims to investigate the impact of chlorpyrifos on the oxidative stress responses in the freshwater bivalve Lamellidens marginalis . To assess the extent of chlorpyrifos induced stress , physiological parameters including respiration and excretion rates alongside a battery of biomarkers like superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , catalase ( CAT ) , glutathione-s-transferase ( GST ) , and lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) were evaluated . These parameters were monitored at various time points over 14 days in a mesocosm study . Furthermore , an integrated biomarker response ( IBR ) approach was employed to coalesce biomarker data . The results showed a significant impact on the physiological activities and biomarker levels of L . marginalis . While most antioxidant and detoxifying enzymes activities were increased , catalase levels decreased significantly , leading to intense lipid peroxidation . Our findings confirm the susceptibility of L . marginalis even under short-term exposure and accentuate the potential threat of chlorpyrifos contamination in freshwater systems .
Municipal wastewaters contain a peculiar mix of rare earth elements ( REEs ) dominated by gadolinium ( Gd ) . The sublethal and lethal toxicity was examined in rainbow trout exposed to a representative REE mixture composed of Gd ( 105ng/L ) , Ce ( 9ng/L ) , Nd ( 8ng/L ) , Yb ( 2ng/L ) and Dy ( 4ng/L ) corresponding to total REEs loading of 137ng/L . Juveniles were exposed to a mixture of REEs ( Gd representing 80% of the loading ) at concentrations between 5 and 100X for 96h at 15 ( o ) C . The data revealed that the 100X mixture was not acutely lethal but produced a range of sublethal effects at concentrations in the 1-10X range , which could be found in some municipal wastewaters . The sublethal effects involved changes in liver weight , heat stable metal binding proteins , protein aggregation , lipid peroxidation and DNA damage . Hence , these sublethal effects were observed in juvenile fish at environmentally relevant concentrations . This suggests that the REEs found in wastewaters could contribute to long-term negative impacts on fish populations .
BACKGROUND : Necrotizing enterocolitis ( NEC ) is a severe gastrointestinal disorder primarily affecting preterm infants . Early-life exposure to NEC may influence asthma severity in adulthood through various mechanisms , yet significant research gaps remain in animal model studies of this relationship . This study aims to elucidate preliminary findings that early NEC exposure may attenuate subsequent asthma-related inflammation via animal models and proposes eosinophil ferroptosis as a potential mechanism underlying this effect . METHODS : NEC was induced in neonatal C57/BL6 mice , followed by ovalbumin ( OVA ) -sensitized asthma model induction in adulthood . Comprehensive evaluations were performed using lung histopathology , immune cell profiling , lipidomics , and transcriptomics . Transmission electron microscopy , lipid peroxidation assays , and ferroptosis-related protein expression analyses were employed to validate eosinophil ferroptosis . Ferroptosis modulators were tested in NEC/asthma mice . Ferroptosis activator/inhibitor-pretreated eosinophils were infused into asthmatic mice lungs through bronchial instillation to assess their impact on asthma severity in vivo . RESULTS : NEC-exposed mice exhibited alveolar simplification and inflammatory exudation as primary lung pathological changes . Persistent lipid metabolic dysregulation and reduced pulmonary eosinophils were observed in NEC-exposed mice , persisting into adulthood asthma . In adult asthma models , NEC pretreatment significantly alleviated airway inflammation , mucus secretion , and collagen deposition . NEC exerted protective effects by inducing eosinophil ferroptosis , characterized by mitochondrial atrophy , elevated lipid peroxidation , and altered ferroptosis-related protein expression . Transcriptomic analysis revealed downregulated inflammatory pathway genes and upregulated cilia motility-related genes in NEC-exposed asthmatic mice . Ferroptosis inhibitors significantly suppressed intestinal inflammation in NEC and pulmonary inflammation in asthmatic mice , while inhibiting eosinophil ferroptosis . Conversely , ferroptosis activators exacerbated both intestinal and pulmonary inflammation and eosinophil ferroptosis . Eosinophils pretreated with ferroptosis activators , when reinfused into asthmatic mice , synergized with dexamethasone to reduce asthma airway inflammation severity . CONCLUSION : Early NEC exposure may attenuate asthma severity by triggering eosinophil ferroptosis . This study is the first to propose ferroptosis as a potential link between NEC and asthma alleviation , with causality further validated using ferroptosis modulators and eosinophil-specific ferroptosis regulation experiments . These findings establish a mechanistic framework , providing theoretical support for exploring eosinophil ferroptosis as a new therapeutic target for asthma .
Developing effective vaccines against bacteria is critical given the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance ( AMR ) . In this study , we developed mRNA vaccines targeting Pseudomonas aeruginosa ( P . aeruginosa ) , a key AMR pathogen , using PureCap mRNA encapsulated in lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) . The PureCap technology offers a facile method for removing immunostimulatory impurities from in vitro transcribed mRNA , such as uncapped RNA and double-stranded RNA ( dsRNA ) . Following intramuscular vaccination of mice with mRNA encoding a model antigen , PureCap mRNA elicited antibody titers that were 26-fold higher than those induced by conventional ARCA-capped mRNA . Mechanistic analyses revealed that both uncapped RNA and dsRNA impurities in ARCA-capped mRNA were responsible for the reduced humoral immune responses . While PureCap mRNA enhanced protein expression efficiency and reduced pro-inflammatory responses compared to ARCA-capped mRNA , minimizing pro-inflammatory responses was particularly critical . When anti-interferon-alpha/beta receptor antibodies were administered , antibody responses to ARCA-capped mRNA vaccination were restored to levels comparable to those achieved with PureCap mRNA vaccination , highlighting the negative impact of type I interferon responses on antibody responses following vaccination with ARCA-capped mRNA . In a vaccination targeting the PcrV protein of P . aeruginosa , PureCap mRNA , but not ARCA-capped mRNA , significantly prolonged the survival of mice following bacterial challenges , presumably due to enhanced antibody production . Furthermore , PureCap mRNA vaccination significantly reduced bacterial loads in the lungs and mitigated tissue damage , edema , and inflammatory responses . These findings underscore the potential of PureCap mRNA as a promising platform for bacterial vaccination , offering a valuable strategy to combat AMR .
Obesity , a widespread global health issue affecting millions , is characterized by excess fat deposition and metabolic dysfunction , significantly elevating the risk of comorbidities like type 2 diabetes , cardiovascular disease , and certain cancers , all of which contribute to rising rates of preventable morbidity and mortality . Current approaches to obesity , including lifestyle modifications , and pharmacotherapy , often face limitations such as poor long-term adherence , side effects , and insufficient targeting of the complex , multifactorial pathways underlying the disease . Herein we report a dual , RNA-mediated combinatorial approach using targeting lipid nanoparticles ( LNP ) for the treatment of obesity . LNPs were co-encapsulated with mRNA encoding Interleukin-27 ( mIL-27 ) to coactivate PGC-1alpha , PPARalpha , and UCP-1 , thereby promoting adipocyte differentiation and enhancing adaptive thermogenesis within adipocytes , and siRNA targeting Dipeptidyl peptidase-4 ( siDPP-4 ) to silence the primary inhibitory enzyme of GLP-1 , and GIP within the incretin system , effectively restoring glucose homeostasis . Following post translational silencing of DPP-4 and upregulation of IL-27 in a diet-induced obesity ( DIO ) mice model , increased expression of thermogenic biomarkers PGC-1alpha , PPARalpha , and UCP-1 was observed at the molecular , protein , and tissue level , and insulin sensitivity was restored . Importantly , this gene modulation led to a 1 % reduction of bodyweight after treatment in the DIO model . These findings demonstrate for the first time a dual RNA-mediated combinatorial approach , leveraging liver targeting LNP delivery with synergistic effects from incretin system regulation and induction of adipocyte differentiation and thermogenesis after codelivery of siDPP-4 and mIL- This innovative strategy provides a promising alternate framework for addressing obesity and its associated metabolic dysfunction .
The role of circadian clocks in regulating metabolic processes is well known ; however , their impact on metabolic states across species and life stages remains largely unexplored . This study investigates the relationship between circadian rhythms and metabolic regulation in the Drosophila larval fat body , a metabolic hub analogous to the mammalian liver and adipose tissue . Surprisingly , the fat body of period null mutants , which lack a functional circadian clock in all tissues , exhibited 12-hour rhythms in gene expression , particularly those involved in peroxisome function , lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress response . These transcriptomic rhythms were aligned with 12-hour oscillations in peroxisome biogenesis and activity , reactive oxygen species levels , and lipid peroxidation . Furthermore , period mutants exhibited 12-hour rhythms in body fat storage , ultimately leading to a net reduction in body fat levels . Collectively , our results identify clock-independent ultradian rhythms in lipid metabolism that are essential for larval survival and development .
BACKGROUND : Genetic studies have established angiopoietin-related protein 4 ( ANGPTL4 ) as a key regulator of triglyceride metabolism and a promising target to reduce atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) risk beyond traditional risk factors . Human ANGPTL4 loss-of-function shows no adverse consequences and is associated with reduced triglycerides and remnant cholesterol , and a reduced risk of type 2 diabetes and ASCVD . Nonetheless , development of ANGPTL4 inhibitors has been delayed due to adverse findings in ANGPTL4-knockout mice fed a high saturated fat diet , including lipid accumulation in mesenteric lymph nodes , systemic inflammation , adverse clinical signs , and reduced survival . We previously reported the development and preclinical characterisation of MAR001 , an ANGPTL4 inhibitory antibody . Here , we report a comprehensive safety assessment of ANGPTL4 inhibition , including novel analysis of genetic ANGPTL4 loss on mesenteric lymph node architecture in humans and two early-phase clinical trials . METHODS : MAR001 was evaluated in a first-in-human , randomised , placebo-controlled , single-ascending-dose phase 1 study with three parts in which participants received a single subcutaneous injection of MAR001 or placebo . The study was developed and conducted by Novartis Biomedical Research ( Cambridge , MA , USA ) . Eligible participants enrolled in part 1A were healthy men and women aged between 18 years and 65 years with a bodyweight of at least 50 kg and a BMI of 18-30 kg/m . Participants in part 1B weighed at least 70 kg and had a BMI of 30-40 kg/m . Participants in part 1C weighed at least 59 kg and had fasting triglycerides in the range of 200-500 mg/dL . The primary objectives were to assess the safety and tolerability of a single subcutaneous injection of MAR001 up to and including 141 days post-dose and to assess the pharmacokinetics of single-dose subcutaneous administration in healthy participants . MAR001 was subsequently assessed in a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled phase 1b/2a study in participants with metabolic dysfunction . The study was done at two sites in Australia . Eligible participants were adults with hypertriglyceridaemia ( in the screening range of >/=7 mmol/L and </=6 mmol/L ; >/=151 mg/dL and </=496 mg/dL ) and a history of type 2 diabetes , or a screening homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance ( HOMA-IR ) value greater than 2 and abdominal obesity ( defined as waist circumference >88 cm for women and >102 cm for men ; > 80 cm for Asian women and >90 cm for Asian men ) . The primary objective was to characterise the safety and tolerability of multiple doses of MAR001 in participants with metabolic dysfunction . The phase 1b/2a study is registered with ClinicalTrials . gov , NCT FINDINGS : We found no evidence of clinical adversity in human germline ANGPTL4 loss-of-function , adding to preclinical support for initiating human studies . Between Nov 20 , 2017 , and Sept 10 , 2019 , in the first-in-human , randomised , placebo-controlled , single-ascending-dose phase 1 study , part 1A enrolled 32 healthy participants : six each received 15 mg , 50 mg , 150 mg , or 450 mg of MAR001 , and eight received placebo . Part 1B enrolled 12 participants : nine received 450 mg of MAR001 and three received placebo . Part 1C enrolled 12 participants : eight received 450 mg of MAR001 and four received placebo . Between Nov 24 , 2013 , and July 1 , 2024 , in the multidose phase 1b/2a randomised , double-blind , placebo-controlled study , 55 participants were randomly assigned to receive subcutaneous injections of placebo ( 19 participants ) or MAR001 at doses of 150 mg ( ten participants ) , 300 mg ( nine participants ) , or 450 mg ( 17 participants ) , followed by a 12-week safety follow-up period . MAR001 was safe and generally well tolerated , and we observed no treatment-related systemic inflammatory biomarker elevations or changes in mesenteric lymph node size or inflammation assessed by MRI . MAR001 ( 450 mg ) yielded placebo-adjusted week 12 mean reductions in triglycerides of 7% ( 90% CI -0 to -3 ) and in remnant cholesterol of 5% ( -1 to -9 ) . INTERPRETATION : ANGPTL4 inhibition with MAR001 can safely and effectively reduce circulating triglycerides and remnant cholesterol . The findings of these trials support further research and development of MAR001 as a promising potential lipid-lowering therapy to reduce risk of ASCVD . FUNDING : Marea Therapeutics .
Liver plays a pivotal role in maintaining energy homeostasis during fasting-refeeding transition . We previously reported that fasting-refeeding induces the dynamic changes of liver size . However , the alterations in hepatic lipid profiles during these dynamic changes remain unclear . Therefore , the present study aimed to clarify the effect of fasting and refeeding on hepatic lipid homeostasis in mice using lipidomics analysis and to identify the specific lipids that vary during the fasting-refeeding transition . In this study , C57BL/6 mice were fasted for 24 h and subsequently refed for 1 , 3 , 6 , 12 , and 24 h , respectively . Liver and serum samples were collected at each time point for further analysis . The results demonstrated that fasting obviously decreased the liver size accompanying with hepatic lipid accumulation , which were all returned to normal level after refeeding . Lipidomics analysis revealed that a total of 309 lipids were significantly disturbed , over half of them belonged to triacylglycerol ( TG ) . Consistently , fasting significantly altered the expression of genes associated with fatty acid uptake , TG synthesis and metabolism , which were returned to baseline level after refeeding . In conclusion , these findings demonstrated that fasting induced liver shrinkage and the change of lipid profiling , especially TG accumulation in liver , while these effects can be reversed after refeeding .
Ferroptosis is a form of regulated cell death characterized by iron accumulation and increased lipid peroxidation , primarily counteracted by a range of antioxidant molecules , including glutathione ( GSH ) , glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , ubiquinone , tetrahydrofolate , and nuclear respiratory factor Furthermore , the process of ferroptosis is intricately influenced by the opposing actions of the p53 tumor suppressor gene and activated transcription factors 3 and 4 , which can either facilitate or hinder ferroptotic cell death depending on the cellular context . This form of cell death is significantly associated with various pancreatic disorders , including both acute and chronic pancreatitis , as well as diabetes mellitus . In this review , we thoroughly investigate the mechanisms underlying ferroptosis , focusing on iron overload , lipid peroxidation , and the regulatory molecules involved in ferroptosis modulation ( notably the system xc-/GSH/GPX4 axis ) , along with the relevant signaling pathways . We also examine the role of ferroptosis in non-neoplastic pancreatic diseases such as pancreatitis and diabetes mellitus while identifying novel therapeutic agents that target ferroptosis , potentially paving the way for innovative treatment strategies for pancreatic conditions .
Plastics often contain non-polar chemical additives , such as antioxidants , flame retardants , plasticizers , and UV stabilizers , which improve performance but have poorly understood environmental risks . This study assessed the aquatic toxicity of polypropylene ( PP ) containing the antioxidant Irgafos 168 ( IRG ) to the crustacean Daphnia magna and the green alga Raphidocelis subcapitata . Commercial PP containing IRG ( PPc ) and additive- and oligomer-free PP ( PPd ) were irradiated at 254 nm using germicidal light , both with and without HO . The tested particles included microplastics ( MPs , 1-50 mum and 50-500 mum ) and nanoplastics ( NPs , < 1 mum ) . The results showed that the toxicity was influenced by particle size , concentration , and the presence of the antioxidant additive . Smaller particles , along with the presence of IRG and its degradation products , tris ( 2 , 4-di-tert-butylphenyl ) phosphate , bis ( 2 , 4-di-tert-butylphenyl ) phosphate , and 2 , 4-di-tert-butylphenol , contributed to higher toxicity in both D . magna and R . subcapitata . The highest toxicity was observed for NPs containing IRG ( PPc ) , which resulted in an EC for D . magna immobilization of 2 +/- 1 mg/L , compared to the less toxic NPs free of IRG ( EC 7 +/- 2 mg/L ) . The growth rate of R . subcapitata was also more affected by NPs generated from PPc ( EC 2 +/- 2 mg/L ) than by the corresponding NPs free of IRG ( LOEC 3 mg/L ) . Our findings showed that the main toxicity was driver was an increase of intracellular reactive oxygen species , lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , damage to cell membrane integrity and impairment of esterase activity . The results demonstrated that irradiated plastic particles act as carriers for toxic non-polar compounds , enhancing negative effects on aquatic organisms , with particle size being a key factor . This study highlights the complex toxicological impacts of micro- and nano-plastics containing additives on aquatic biota .
Emerging contaminants ( ECs ) are ubiquitous in natural surface waters , posing significant risks to aquatic ecosystems and human health . Symbiotic systems comprising photoautotrophic algae and associated bacteria offer a promising approach for the bioremediation of aquatic environments . This study investigated the degradation of five ECs ( carbamazepine , diclofenac , atenolol , sulfamethoxazole , and ofloxacin ) by reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generated through algal-bacterial interactions . The algal-bacterial system exhibited superior degradation efficiencies , achieving 96 % , 97 % , 89 % , 72 % , and 77 % removal for the respective ECs after 6 days , far surpassing the performance of pure bacterial or algal systems . Elevated levels of biogenic ROS were observed in the algal-bacterial system , with extracellular superoxide radicals ( O ( *- ) ) and hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) identified as key drivers of the degradation process . Under ECs stress , the algal-bacterial system maintained cellular integrity and metabolic activity by upregulating pathways related to carbohydrate , lipid , amino acid , and nucleotide metabolism , thereby enhancing its resistance . These findings highlight the significant potential of algal-bacterial systems for the transformation of ECs , offering a sustainable strategy for bioremediation and the restoration of ecosystem health .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , which acts as a predominant contributor to chronic liver disease , remains a pervasive global epidemic . Interleukin-37IL-37 is documented to have protective effects against various liver diseases . This work focuses on investigating the role and relevant action mechanism of IL-37 in NAFLD . Immunofluorescence assay and Western blotWBwere used to estimate M1 macrophage markers . For immunofluorescence analysis , images from five randomly selected fields per sample were captured using a confocal microscope ( Leica ) . Fluorescence intensity was quantified by ImageJ software ( version 53 ) with background subtraction , and data were normalized to DAPI-positive cells . The lipid Reactive Oxygen SpeciesROSand cell lipid droplet deposition were assessed via BODIPY 581/591 C11 staining and Oil Red O staining . Fe ( 2 + ) , triglycerides and cholesterol levels were assessed utilizing appropriate assay kits . WB was adopted for the estimation of proteins associated with ferroptosis and apoptosis . Protein band intensities were quantified using Image Lab software ( Bio-Rad ) and normalized to beta-actin expression . Three technical replicates were analyzed for each biological replicate ( n = 3 ) . Our data revealed that IL-37 alleviated PA-stimulatedPalmitic acid-stimulaedM1 macrophage polarization . It was also identified that IL-37 suppressed lipid accumulation and apoptosis in RAW7 cells through inhibiting the polarization of M1 macrophages . Collectively , IL-37 could improve PA-stimulated lipid accumulation and apoptosis in liver cells through suppressing M1 macrophage polarization , which might be mediated by ferroptosis .
The cell membrane is the outermost boundary of the cell , and its role is to protect the cell . Drugs must first pass through the membrane to enter the cell ; therefore , investigating the properties of the bilayer membrane is of great importance and can provide important information regarding drug delivery processes . In this study , the effect of increasing temperature on the properties of bilayer membranes with 0 % , 10 % , 30 % , and 50 % cholesterol was investigated using molecular dynamics simulation . Moreover , the phase transition temperature of the lipid bilayer was selected based on the percentages of cholesterol . The results indicated that with increasing temperature , the membrane changed from gel phase to fluid phase . Moreover , a rise in temperature led to an increase in the area per lipid and a decrease in the order parameter , the reason for which was the increase in the kinetic energy of the molecules . The fluid phase membrane , which is at a higher temperature , had a higher diffusion coefficient than the gel phase membrane . The increase in the temperature caused the membrane with 0 % cholesterol to experience a 24 % decrease in the order parameter , while the structural properties of the membrane with 50 % cholesterol are almost constant with increasing temperature , indicating the rigidity of the membrane . With the increase in cholesterol concentration from 0 % to 50 % , the time for pore formation under the electric field increased from 26 ns to 46 ns . These results will be helpful in the development of drug delivery and therapeutic processes .
This study evaluated the inclusion of quinoa ( 10 % , 30 % ) and its by-product quinoa husk ( 10 % , 15 % ) in the diet of Tenebrio molitor larvae , focusing on their impact on growth , macronutrients content , fatty acid profile , oxidative stability , bioaccumulation of saponins and bioactivities ( antioxidant activity and pancreatic lipase inhibition ) . All diets favoured larval growth with low mortality , especially quinoa at 10 % . Protein and lipid content remained stable , while quinoa increased MUFAs and decreased PUFAs , whereas the opposite effect was caused by quinoa husk . Diets did not affect peroxide values but influenced the oxidative stability of lipids . Larvae bioaccumulated saponins , especially with the highest inclusion of quinoa ( 70 mg saponins/100 g fresh larvae ) . Regardless of the diet , larvae exhibited pancreatic lipase inhibition and antioxidant activity , although the latter was slightly worsened with the highest inclusions . Overall , quinoa and its by-product quinoa husk show potential as feed ingredients for producing high added-value insect-based products .
In this study , a novel aqueous enzymatic extraction ( AEE ) was developed to prepare camellia oil enriched with polyphenols , and the potential mechanism of in situ phenolics enrichment was explored . Camellia seeds were first subjected to AEE in a 25 % isopropanol solution containing 15 M glucose for 4 h , followed by the introduction of alpha-glycosidase beta-glycosidase , or pectinase , and further hydrolysis was performed for 1 to 4 h . A higher free oil yield ( FOR , 98 % ) was obtained . Meanwhile , the highest total phenolic content ( TPC ) in oil ( 72 +/- 53 mg GAE/Kg oil ) was detected in the 4-h beta-glycosidase-treated group , approximately 4-fold that of the control group ( 00 +/- 02 mg GAE/Kg oil ) . HPLC analysis of the hydrolysate revealed that typical glycosylated polyphenols declined in the aqueous phase , while the content of less polar polyphenols , such as kaempferol-3-O-sambubioside , rutin , and quercetin , in the oil phase increased . These findings suggest that hydrophilic KGRG and KXR were hydrolyzed into relatively hydrophobic deglycosylated phenolics , which migrated into the oil phase , accounting for the enrichment of phenolics in camellia oil by the novel AEE . Furthermore , the stability of phenolics-abundant camellia oil was evaluated with respect to physicochemical properties , phenolics content , and lipid accompaniments content under various conditions . Results showed that the phenolics and lipid accompaniments remained relatively stable under a nitrogen atmosphere and at 4 degrees C refrigeration . Hence , the in-situ phenolics enrichment technique developed has the potential to prepare functional camellia oil with high biological activity and stability on a large scale .
BACKGROUND & AIMS : Time-restricted eating ( TRE ) is a type of intermittent fasting , requiring individuals to limit their eating timeframe to specific hours in the day , while maintaining a fasting period greater than 12 h . Fat oxidation ( FOx ) is a critical determinant in the pathophysiology of metabolic diseases , with impaired FOx contributing to conditions such as insulin resistance and obesity , whereas enhanced FOx is associated with improved metabolic health . However , the impact of the 16 : 8 TRE model on FOx remains largely unexplored . The aim of this study was to determine the effect of a 6-week TRE on resting and exercise substrate oxidation , body composition , and blood markers related to metabolic health . METHODS : Thirty-three healthy , young males ( age : 5 +/- 6 years , body mass : 5 +/- 4 kg , maximal oxygen uptake [V Omax] : 9 +/- 6 mL . kg ( -1 ) . min ( -1 ) ) were assigned to either TRE ( n = 16 ) or control group ( n = 17 ) , with efforts to match baseline characteristics , including V Omax and body composition . The TRE group followed a 16 : 8 program for 6 weeks , while controls maintained their existing dietary habits . Body composition , blood glucose , insulin , blood lipids , resting substrate oxidation , and FOx during cycling at 40 % V Omax were assessed before and after the 6-week period . Data were analyzed using both intention-to-treat ( ITT ) and per-protocol approaches . RESULTS : Thirty-three participants were included in the ITT analysis , while 31 participants were included in the per-protocol analysis . Compared to baseline , results showed a significant difference ( p < 05 ) between TRE and control groups in body mass ( TRE versus control ) ( Delta = -8 kg versus Delta = 7 kg ) , fat mass ( Delta = -4 kg versus Delta = 4 kg ) , percent body fat ( -7 % versus 4 % ) , lean mass ( Delta = -4 kg versus Delta = 3 kg ) , and visceral adipose tissue mass ( Delta = -7 g versus Delta = 4 g ) . There was a significant difference between TRE and control groups in resting respiratory exchange ratio ( RER , Delta = -02 versus Delta = 02 ; p = 016 ) , FOx ( Delta = 33 mg . kg FFM ( -1 ) . min ( -1 ) versus Delta = -37 mg . kg FFM ( -1 ) . min ( -1 ) ; p = 007 ) , and carbohydrate oxidation ( Delta = -39 mg . kg FFM ( -1 ) . min ( -1 ) versus Delta = 45 mg . kg FFM ( -1 ) . min ( -1 ) ; p = 037 ) after the 6-week period . Exercise substrate oxidation and fasting blood glucose , insulin , triglycerides , total cholesterol , and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol did not significantly change over time in either group ( p > 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In summary , a 6-week TRE significantly reduces body mass , fat mass , and resting RER as well as increases resting FOx in young , healthy males . However , it does not affect blood markers related to cardiometabolic health or exercise substrate oxidation . This trial was registered at https : //clinicaltrials . gov/study/NCT06498102asNCT
The formation of intracranial aneurysm ( IA ) is intimately linked to the progressive loss of vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs ) . Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) play a pivotal role in inducing VSMC death during IA progression . Kruppel-like factor 15 ( KLF15 ) plays a crucial role in preserving vascular homeostasis . However , the potential impact of KLF15 on ROS-triggered VSMC death remains unexplored . Analysis of microarray datasets from the GEO database suggests reduced KLF15 levels in human IA tissues . This study further confirms decreased KLF15 expression in ROS-treated human brain VSMCs ( HBVSMCs ) . An unbiased examination of the transcriptome in HBVSMCs transfected with siKLF15 reveals that KLF15 regulates the ferroptosis pathway upon ROS stress . Silencing KLF15 results in the upregulation of genes promoting ferroptosis , such as SAT1 , HMOX1 , and MAP1LC3B , while downregulation of the ferroptosis regulatory gene SLC7A Cell death increases in KLF15-silenced HBVSMCs and is rescued by the ferroptosis inhibitor frerrostain- Co-immunoprecipitation and in situ proximity ligation assay indicate that KLF15 interacts with p Knockdown of p53 rescues the effects of siKLF15 on ROS-induced ferroptosis , including elevated cell death , lipid ROS levels , and the malondialdehyde content , as well as reduced SLC7A11protin levels in HBVSMCs . These findings suggest that KLF15 may lower cell sensitivity to ferroptosis by interacting with p53 and preventing p53-mediated transcriptional repression of SLC7A Overall , our results reveal a protective function of KLF15 in preventing ROS-induced ferroptosis in HBVSMCs .
Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 31 ( USP31 ) , a member of the deubiquitinating enzyme family , linked to the pathogenesis of cervical cancer ( CC ) . Despite this association , the precise mechanisms underlying its role remain inadequately understood . Recent studies have identified ferroptosis as a potential mechanism contributing to radiotherapy-mediated tumor suppression and the development of radioresistance . Consequently , this research seeks to inspect the regulatory effect of USP31 in the radioresistance of CC cells , with particular emphasis on the ferroptosis pathway . Our findings indicate that USP31 levels increase in human CC cells after radiation exposure . The knockdown of USP31 through transfection with si-USP31 significantly enhanced the radiosensitivity of SiHa and HeLa cells . This knockdown also promoted ferroptosis , as evidenced by enhanced lipid reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation , higher endocellular Fe ( 2+ ) contents , and elevated concentrations of 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , alongside reduced glutathione ( GSH ) levels and the NADPH/NADP ( + ) ratio . The intervention of Fer-1 mitigated the impact of silencing USP31 on the radiosensitivity of SiHa and HeLa cells . The reduction of USP31 level promoted the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of GPX4 , which in turn influenced the impact of USP31 suppression on ferroptosis and resistance to radiation in CC cells . Collectively , these discoveries indicate that USP31 knockdown augments the radiosensitivity of CC cells by facilitating ferroptosis through the regulation of GPX4 protein ubiquitination and degradation . This research explores the role of USP31 in CC and investigates how USP31 depletion increases radiosensitivity , providing insights into potential avenues for developing advanced therapeutic strategies for CC .
Increasing evidence highlights the role of cell wall components in the effectiveness of different Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) strains in modulating host immune response . We previously demonstrated that the outbreak multidrug-resistant strain M displays a distinctive lipid profile in its cell envelope compared to the closely related sporadic strain Both strains markedly differ in their ability to induce fully functional CD8 ( + ) T cells because of low CD69 signaling and impaired CD4 ( + ) T cell help . In this study , we evaluated the impact of extractable lipids ( LP ) from M ( LP-M ) and 410 ( LP-410 ) on the activation and functionality of T cells from healthy individuals . PBMCs were cultured alone or with Mtb in the presence or absence of LP-M , LP-410 , or LP from CD1551 mutants in polymorphic genes between M and Then , surface CD69 and intracytoplasmic IL-2 ( after 3 days of culture ) , as well as surface CD107 expression ( after 6 days of culture ) were determined in T cells by flow cytometry . In contrast to LP-410 , LP-M induced low expression of CD69 and IL-2 in CD4 ( + ) /CD8 ( + ) cells and of CD107 in CD8 ( + ) cells . Besides , LP from Mtb strains mutated in Rv1861c and Rv3787c genes inhibited H37Rv-induced T cell response without causing cell death . Thus , our results suggest that LP-M likely through mutations in Rv1861 and Rv3787c , inhibits the activation and functionality of T cells from PPD+ healthy human donors and might partially contribute to the development of immune evasion mechanisms in the M strain .
BACKGROUND : Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuronal damage , with poor prognosis and limited therapeutic options . Inhibition of neuronal ferroptosis has shown promise as a potential treatment for AD . Schisandrin B ( Sch B ) , a major active component of Schisandra chinensis , exhibits potential neuroprotective effects . However , whether Sch B inhibits neuronal ferroptosis remains unclear . PURPOSE : To investigate the mechanisms underlying the effects of Sch B on the GSK3beta/Nrf2/GPX4 and FSP1 signaling pathways , which are the suppression of neuronal ferroptosis and the potential therapeutic intervention in AD . METHODS : We employed the 3 x Tg mouse model in vivo , and utilized the erastin-induced ferroptosis model in SH-SY5Y/APP695swe cells in vitro . Nissl staining was conducted to facilitate histopathological assessment . Assessment of neuronal ferroptosis was performed utilizing a lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis marker assay kit . Furthermore , bioinformatic analysis was executed with the application of the GEO database . Immunofluorescence and Western blot analyses were performed to quantify protein expression levels within the cellular context . ELISA was utilized to determine cytokine concentrations within the supernatant of cell cultures . RT-PCR was executed to evaluate mRNA expression levels . RESULTS : Sch B suppresses the activation of GSK3beta , modulating the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling pathway and consequently inhibiting ferroptosis in neurons , which results in amelioration of cognitive impairment and pathological damage in 3 x Tg mice . Sch B also inhibits GSK3beta activation , thereby modulating the Nrf2/GPX4 signaling pathway to prevent erastin-induced ferroptosis in SH-SY5Y695swe cells in vitro . Furthermore , Sch B modulates FSP1 , enhancing its synergistic interaction with the GSK3beta/Nrf2/GPX4 pathway to suppress neuronal ferroptosis . Sch B can also inhibit TNF-alpha release from neurons undergoing ferroptosis , thus impeding the activation of M1-type microglia , suggesting a multifaceted neuroprotective strategy against neuroinflammatory processes . CONCLUSION : Sch B modulates the GSK3beta/Nrf2/GPX4 pathway in conjunction with FSP1 to inhibit neuronal ferroptosis and the subsequent microglial M1 polarization mediated by neuronal ferroptosis , thereby improving cognitive impairment and pathological damage in AD .
BACKGROUND : The date fruit is a remarkable source of nutraceuticals and bioactive compounds . Different types of phenolic compounds with high antioxidant capacity are found in date seed extract . Additionally , these compounds can be potential antibacterial agents to combat antibiotic resistance strains . Therefore , the main idea of the current study was to quantify five key phenolic acids in the ethanolic extract of Zahidi and Khastawi dates seed and to examine their antibacterial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) . METHODS : The concentration of gallic acid , ferulic acid , p-coumaric acid , sinapic acid and cinnamic acid in the seed extracts were determined by high performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) . Then , antibacterial activity of date seed extracts was analyzed using well diffusion method . Furthermore , a scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) analysis was performed to confirm the antibacterial effects of the seed extracts . RESULTS : Phenolic acids were found to be in the range of 59 to 65 microg mg ( -1 ) in Zahidi and 69 to 56 microg mg ( -1 ) in Khastawi date seed extract . Gallic acid was the dominant phenolic acid , while cinnamic acid was seen in the lowest concentrations compared with the other phenolic acids in both cultivars . Antibacterial activity study showed that the growth inhibition effect of Khastawi date ( 14+/-21 mm ) was higher than that of Zahidi date ( 8+/-13 mm ) against MRSA . As well , the maximum DPPH scavenging percentage was 79% and 62% for the Khastawi and Zahidi date seed extracts , respectively . Also , SEM analysis suggested that treatment of MRSA with date seed extract resulted in a significant disruption of bacterial structure . CONCLUSION : It can be concluded that date seed extract can be considered as a potential source of antibacterial compounds for the drug discovery purposes .
BACKGROUND : A healthy diet is essential for managing metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) , but moderation and dietary adequacy remain ambiguous . METHODS : Data from the recruiting phase of the Shiraz University of Medical Sciences Employees Health Cohort Study ( SUMS EHCS ) were utilized to conduct this cross-sectional analysis . A validated 168-item semi-quantitative food frequency questionnaire ( FFQ ) was used to collect dietary data in the Persian cohort . In the current study , the healthy eating index ( HEI-2015 ) includes two components , namely adequacy and moderation which were used to evaluate the quality of the diet . RESULTS : The study included 3380 health workers , with a mean age of 81+/-7 years and 2% female . Among them , 3% met the ATP III criteria for MetS . The mean total HEI , adequacy , and moderation scores were 89+/-53 , 03+/-88 , and 13+/-90 , respectively . Adjusted model analysis showed no significant correlation between diet adequacy and MetS or its components , but found a significant association between diet moderation and MetS ( OR : 03 [008-05] ) , abdominal obesity ( OR : 02 [003-04] ) , elevated serum triglycerides ( TGs ) ( OR : 02 [1-03] ) , and elevated fasting blood sugar ( FBS ) ( OR : 03 [005-05] ) . CONCLUSION : This study found that there was a significant correlation between diet moderation and abdominal obesity , elevated serum TGs , elevated FBS , and MetS . Future studies on the topic are recommended .
CONTEXT : Obesity induces alterations in adipocyte size , tissue inflammation , vascularization , and extracellular matrix composition . Previous studies have shown that a leaf extract of Eucalyptus tereticornis Sm . ( Myrtaceae ) , with ursolic acid , oleanolic acid , and ursolic acid lactone mixed with minor metabolites , provided a superior antiobesity effect than reconstituted triterpenoid mixtures in adipocyte cell lines and a pre-diabetic mouse model . Further identification of the molecular mechanisms of action of this mixture of triterpenes is required . OBJECTIVE : This study analyzes the effect of the natural extract and its components on early RNA expression profiles in human primary cultured adipocytes and a mouse cell line . MATERIALS AND METHODS : RNA was sequenced using the DNBseq platform and the EnrichR software to perform gene enrichment analysis using the Gene Ontology database , Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes , and Reactome . To conduct clustering analysis , the normalized counts of each gene and applied k-means clustering were standardized . RESULTS : The combination of molecules in the natural extract has an additive or synergic effect that increases the number of genes regulated associated with the biological functionality of differentiating adipocytes , with UAL playing a central role . The natural extract modulates PPAR , Wnt , and Extracellular Matrix organization pathways significantly in both cellular models . Remarkably , the extract downregulates the expression of genes involved in lipid metabolism , adipogenesis , and adipocyte fat load , such as PRKAR2B , LPIN1 , FABP4 , Scd1 , MC5R , CD36 , PEG10 , and HMGCS DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS : Our study shows that Eucalyptus tereticornis extract is a promising option for treating adipocyte tissue dysfunction derived from obesity . FAU - Acin , Sergio
Alzheimer ' s disease related pathologies , neurodegenerative pathologies , and vascular neuropathologies are common in older adults at death . Previous studies using the National Alzheimer ' s Coordinating Center ( NACC ) have not investigated the association between age at death and apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) epsilon4 and the prevalence of neuropathologies found at autopsy . We used autopsy confirmed neuropathology data from the NACC to examine the interactive effects of age and APOE epsilon4 on various neuropathologies ( N = 5 , 843 ) using modified Poisson regression to estimate the prevalence ratios . Significant interactions between APOE epsilon4 and age at death were observed for neuritic plaques , Braak staging , diffuse neuritic plaques , and Lewy body disease pathology , with the effect of APOE epsilon4 decreasing at older ages . In contrast , a significant positive interaction was found for hemorrhages/microbleeds , indicating that the association between APOE epsilon4 and microbleeds strengthens with increasing age . These findings suggest that future therapeutic strategies should consider both genetic risk and age to effectively target AD progression .
The low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein ( LRP ) family is a group of cell surface receptors that participate in a variety of biological processes , including lipid metabolism , Wnt signaling , and bone metabolism . miRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression and play a role in many biological processes , including the occurrence and development of tumors . Accumulating evidence demonstrates that LRP members are modulated by miRNAs across multiple cancer types , influencing key oncogenic processes-including tumor cell proliferation , apoptosis suppression , extracellular matrix remodeling , cell adhesion , and angiogenesis . The LRPs , miRNAs , their upstream lncRNAs , and downstream signaling molecules often form complex signaling pathways to regulate the activity of tumor cells . However , the tissue-specific roles and mechanistic underpinnings of these pathways remain incompletely understood . When examining the emerging concept of the interaction between miRNAs and LRPs , we emphasize the significance of these complex regulatory layers in the initiation and progression of cancer . Collectively , these findings are critical for advancing our understanding of the role of the LRPs family in the occurrence and development of tumors , as well as for the development of new strategies for cancer treatment .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) has become the most common chronic liver disease , with other fat-liver diseases potentially progressing to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma . Our study aimed to alleviate MASLD by EGCG inhibiting oxidative stress-mediated pyroptosis in zebrafish . METHODS : The one month old wild-type zebrafh larval ( 50 per group ) and three months old adult male zebrafish ( 15 per group ) were treated with high-fat diet ( HFD ) feeding ( powdered egg yolk ) following by treatment with 25 muM EGCG for 15 days . Indicators related to liver damage , oxidative stress , inflammation , pyroptosis and aging were assessed using Oil Red O staining , H&E staining , commercial assay kits , enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kits , and Western blot analysis . RESULTS : The results suggest that EGCG significantly reduced fatness , severe lipid deposition , triglyceride ( TG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) and free fatty acid ( FFA ) levels ( p < 05 ) . EGCG markedly reduced serum ALT , AST and ameliorated liver injury in zebrafish ( p < 05 ) . EGCG also showed an antioxidant effect by reducing reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and increasing superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) levels ( p < 05 ) . Moreover , EGCG obviously down-regulated the pro-inflammatory factors like tumor necrosis factor-a ( TNF-alpha ) , interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) , interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , and interleukin-18 ( IL-18 ) levels ( p < 05 ) . EGCG indicated a significant upregulation involved in pyroptosis pathway , such as nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( NRF2 ) and downregulated the expressions of nuclear factor-kappaB ( NF-kappaB ) , NOD-like receptor thermal protein domain associated protein 3 ( NLRP3 ) , apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD ( ASC ) , cysteinyl aspartate specific proteinase-1 ( caspase-1 ) , as well as gasdermin D ( GSDMD ) ( p < 01 ) . Moreover , EGCG significantly improved aging-related markers induced by a HFD , including the level of senescence-associated beta-Galactosidase ( SA beta-Gal ) and expression of p53 , p16 , and p21 ( p < 05 ) , while ameliorating liver function in zebrafish . CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that EGCG may attenuate MASLD in larval and adult zebrafish induced by 15 consecutive days HFD , which is potentially mediated by modulating the Nrf2/NF-kappaB/NLRP3 signaling pathway which relieve pyroptosis .
OBJECTIVE : Policosanol , a compound generated from sugar cane , consists of alcohols such as octacosanol , hexacosanol , and triacontanol , which possess antioxidant properties . Evaluating the impact of this antioxidant on serum creatinine in clinical settings is essential because of the contradictory findings . This comprehensive review and dose-response meta-analysis attempts to evaluate the impact of policosanol supplementation on creatinine levels . METHODS : A comprehensive search was performed in bibliographic databases such as Cochrane , PubMed , Google Scholar , Scopus , and Web of Science , covering the period from inception to November The necessary data was retrieved , and pertinent randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) that satisfied the inclusion criteria were included . Weighted mean differences ( WMDs ) were the reported measure of the pooled effects . To find between-study heterogeneities , the I-squared test was employed . RESULTS : A total of 2427 participants were involved in the twenty-one RCTs that were included . A meta-analysis showed that policosanol had no significant change in creatinine levels in participants consuming policosanol compared to placebo consumers ( WMD = 21 micromol/l ; 95% CI = - 85 to 26 ; P = 70 ) . Policosanol consumption for durations >/= 24 weeks significantly decreased creatinine , according to subgroup studies . There was a non-linear correlation between changes in creatinine levels and the dosage of prescription policosanol ( P ( non_linearity ) = 002 ) . However , the treatment time did not have a significant impact on creatinine levels in a non-linear manner ( P ( non_linearity ) = 24 ) . CONCLUSION : Policosanol supplementation has no significant effect on creatinine levels .
BACKGROUND : Peak expiratory flow ( PEF ) serves as a direct indicator of the functional status of the respiratory system . Higher body fat content , especially abdominal obesity , may relate to a deterioration in long-term respiratory function . The " A Body Shape Index " ( ABSI ) better assesses abdominal obesity , but its association with PEF is poorly understood . METHODS : The analysis demonstrated data from 14 , 386 middle-aged and older adults from the 2015 China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) . ABSI , a sex-specific metric integrating waist circumference , weight , and height via allometric modeling derived from Chinese anthropometrics , was analyzed against PEF/PEF ( prediction ) using multivariable linear and spline regressions to characterize nonlinear associations . Threshold effects , subgroup , and sensitivity analyses ensured robustness . RESULTS : This research showed a negative relationship between ABSI and both PEF and PEF ( predictions ) . An inverted L-shaped curve in the spline analysis characterized the association between ABSI and PEF/PEF ( prediction ) across the sexes . The ABSI threshold was 0782 and 0691 in males and females , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : Abdominal obesity negatively affects respiratory function , with ABSI thresholds varying by sex . Therefore , weight management should focus on a healthy ABSI to reduce abdominal obesity and safeguard respiratory health .
BACKGROUND : Ovarian cancer ( OC ) is a formidable gynecological tumor marked with the highest mortality rate . The lack of effective biomarkers and treatment drugs places a substantial proportion of patients with OC at significant risk of mortality , primarily due to metastasis . Glycolysis metabolism , lipid metabolism , choline metabolism , and sphingolipid metabolism are closely intertwined with the occurrence and progression of OC . Thus , it is of utmost significance to identify potent prognostic biomarkers and delve into the exploration of novel therapeutic drugs and targets , in pursuit of advancing the treatment of OC . METHODS : Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) data related to OC were analyzed using AUCell scores to identify subpopulations at the single-cell level . The " AddModuleScore " function of the " Seurat " package was adopted to score and select marker genes from four gene sets : glycolysis metabolism , lipid metabolism , choline metabolism , and sphingolipid metabolism . A prognostic model for metabolism-related genes ( MRGs ) was constructed and validated using OC-related marker genes selected from bulk RNAseq data . The MRG-based prognostic model was further utilized for functional analysis of the model gene set , pan-cancer analysis of genomic variations , spatial transcriptomics analysis , as well as GO and KEGG enrichment analysis . CIBERSORT and ESTIMATE algorithms were utilized for assessing the immune microenvironment of TCGA-ovarian serous cystadenocarcinoma ( OV ) samples . Furthermore , the Tracking Tumor Immunophenotype ( TIP ) database was employed to examine the anti-cancer immune response in patients with OC . To gain a more in-depth understanding of the process , the frequency of somatic mutations and different types of mutated genes were visualized through the somatic mutation profile of the TCGA database . Moreover , the benefits of immune checkpoint inhibitor ( ICI ) therapy in individuals with OC were predicted in the TIDE database . In addition , the CMap database was used to predict small-molecule drugs for the treatment of OC . Furthermore , immunohistochemistry , RT-qPCR , CCK-8 , Transwell assay , and in vivo tumor xenograft experiments were conducted to validate the prognostic ability of the MRG Triggering Receptor Expressed on Myeloid Cells-1 ( TREM1 ) in OC . RESULTS : Monocytes were selected using AUCell scoring , and two subpopulations of monocytes , marked by the expression of C1QC ( + ) tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and FCN1 ( + ) resident tissue macrophages ( RTMs ) , were identified as marker genes for OC . Subsequently , a prognostic model consisting of 12 MRGs was constructed and validated . Genomic exploration of the prognostic model unveiled an array of biological functions linked with metabolism . Furthermore , copy number variation ( CNV ) , mRNA expression , single nucleotide variation ( SNV ) , and methylation were significantly different across diverse tumors . Analysis of the TIP database demonstrated that the low-risk group , as determined by the MRG-based prognostic model , exhibited significantly higher anti-cancer immune activity relative to the high-risk group . Furthermore , predictions from the TIDE database revealed that individuals in the high-risk group were more prone to immune evasion when treated with ICIs . The resulting data identified candesartan and PD-123319 as potential therapeutic drugs for OC , possibly acting on the target ATGR In vitro and in vivo experiments elucidated that the targeted downregulation of TREM1 effectively inhibited the proliferation and migration of OC cells . CONCLUSION : The MRG-based prognostic model constructed through the combined analysis of glycolysis metabolism , lipid metabolism , choline metabolism , and sphingolipid metabolism is potentially effective as a prognostic biomarker . Furthermore , candesartan and PD-123319 may be potential therapeutic drugs for OC , possibly acting on the target ATGR
BACKGROUND : This research aimed to investigate bioaccessibility of garlic oil extract ( GOE ) and riceberry rice bran oil extract ( RBRBOE ) and to enhance the stability and delivery of plant-derived essential oils . Two EOs were used to formulate through encapsulation techniques of microencapsulated black soldier fly ( BSF ) protein with a GOE matrix , ( mBSF-GOE ) , and a nanoemulsified RBRBOE , ( nRBRBOE ) . A completely randomized design was used for the treatments , with various ratios of feed additives between the mBSF-GOE and nRBRBOE supplementations at 0 : 0 , 6 : 0 , 4 : 2 , 2 : 4 , and 0 : 6 mg in diet , with the R : C ratio at 60 : 40 using in vitro gas study . RESULTS : The combination of mBSF-GOE and nRBRBOE at 4 : 2 mg for 12 and 24 h after fermentation had a significant impact on several factors ( p < 01 , < 05 ) , including gas kinetics , cumulative gas production ( 96 h ) , in vitro dry matter degradability ( IVDMD ) , and ruminal fermentation products . Specifically , the levels of propionate ( C3 ) and total VFAs went up , while ruminal methane ( CH ) production decreased by 2% . Subsequently , there was no negative effect ( p > 05 ) on the ruminal pH , ammonia nitrogen ( NH-N ) concentration , or the dynamics of the rumen microbiota population , while significantly decreasing the methanogen population in terms of Methanobacteriales ( up to 3% after 24 h ) ( p < 01 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Based on this study , it could be concluded that the supplementation of mBSF-GOE combined with nRBRBOE-based bioactive components could potentially be used as a ruminant feed enhancer to enhance fermentation efficiency and as technological feed additive substances to inhibit the methanogen population while mitigating CH production .
Epidemiological studies have identified high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced obesity as a risk factor for Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain inadequately elucidated . Microglia , the brain ' s innate immune cells , are pivotal in AD brain by engulfing beta-amyloid ( Abeta ) peptides and compacting poorly consolidated Abeta plaques . Microglia are highly susceptible to the metabolic milieu ; however , it is unclear how long-term HFD alters the lipid environment and influences microglial phenotype in AD brains . In this study , APP ( NL-G-F ) knock-in AD model mice were fed an HFD for 9-27 weeks and subsequently analyzed for Abeta pathology and microglial function . Our findings indicated that HFD intake accelerated Abeta deposition , attenuated the recruitment of microglia to the plaques and impaired their phagocytic activity , while also promoting the accumulation of intracellular lipid droplets ( LDs ) . Lipidomic analyses revealed that HFD , in synergy with AD pathology , increased the proportion of cholesterol esters in the cerebral cortex . In vitro , oleic acid-a major HFD constituent-similarly diminished the phagocytic capacity of MG6 microglia and induced LDs accumulation , along with downregulation of gene sets of cholesterol efflux , phagocytosis and engulfment . Overall , these findings implied that HFD-induced perturbation in brain cholesterol homeostasis may compromise microglial activation and expedite AD progression in APP ( NL-G-F ) mice .
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrest ( OHCA ) survivors have more than one-third mortality rate . Numerous inflammatory indicators are available , and it should be feasible to identify a fast and accurate way to aid medical decisions . This retrospective cohort study included 247 patients with OHCA , hospitalized between January 2015 and August The study was conducted in the intensive care unit of China Medical University Hospital , Taichung , Taiwan . A variety of inflammatory markers , including interleukin-6 , neutrophil to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio ( NHR ) , and C-reactive protein , were screened at 24 h after OHCA . The primary endpoint was the 90-day all-cause mortality . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves and Kaplan-Meier survival curves of NHR were analyzed . Possible risk factors for all-cause mortality were estimated by Cox regression modeling . NHR and interleukin-6 were similarly predictive of all-cause mortality in inflammatory response , and both were superior to C-reactive protein at 24 h after OHCA ( p < 001 ) . The area under the ROC curve of NHR was 74 ( 95% confidence interval [CI] : 66-81 , p < 001 ) , sensitivity : 68 , and specificity : 68 , and NHR = The 90-day all-cause mortality rate for NHR > 1 compared to those with NHR </= 1 was 51 and 21 , respectively , according to Kaplan-Meier curves analysis . The hazard ratio for NHR > 1 was 54 ( 95% CI : 68-82 , p < 001 ) . An NHR > 1 at 24 h after OHCA is a potential inflammatory marker for predicting all-cause mortality .
The pleiomorphic structure and dynamic behavior of cellular endomembrane systems have been extensively studied using classical electron microscopy . However , fixation and staining constraints limit the in situ visualization of transient interactions , such as membrane fusion , scission , and intraluminal vesicle formation , potentially overlooking intermediate structures like membrane hemifusion . Using in situ cryo-electron tomography in four mammalian cell lines , we identify heterotypic hemifused vesicles featuring an extended hemifusion diaphragm consistently associated with a 42-nanometer proteolipid nanodroplet ( PND ) . We designate these vesicular organelle complexes as " hemifusomes . " Hemifusomes constitute up to 10% of vesicular organelles at the cell periphery but do not engage in canonical endocytic pathways . These structures exhibit diverse conformations and frequently contain intraluminal vesicles . Building on the continuum of related morphologies observed , we propose that hemifusomes serve as platforms for vesicular biogenesis , mediated by the PND . These findings provide direct in situ evidence of long-lived hemifused vesicle complexes and introduce an ESCRT-independent model for multivesicular body ( MVB ) formation .
The long-term effects of COVID-19 infection on genomic integrity , along with hematological , biochemical , and inflammatory , remain poorly understood . Viral infections , including SARS-CoV-2 , are known to induce genomic instability , potentially contributing to the persistence of post-COVID-19 symptoms . This study aimed to assess genomic instability in individuals with acute and chronic post-COVID-19 conditions , alongside hematological profiles , metabolic parameters , and inflammatory markers , compared to a SARS-CoV-2-negative control group . Participants ( n = 231 ) from southern Brazil were stratified into acute post-COVID ( n = 78 ) , chronic post-COVID ( n = 79 ) , and control groups ( n = 74 ) . DNA damage was assessed using alkaline and enzyme-modified comet assays . Oxidative lesions were detected across all groups , but no significant differences were observed among them . Correlations with biochemical markers suggest inflammation and oxidative stress as central mechanisms in post-COVID-19 pathophysiology . Hematological and biochemical analyses revealed persistent inflammation , lipid metabolism disruptions , and gender-specific alterations , such as higher levels of inflammatory markers ( C-reactive protein and ferritin ) and lipid abnormalities in men , whereas women exhibited distinct hematological patterns . Age-related influences on metabolic and inflammatory markers further illustrate the systemic complexity of post-COVID-19 effects . The chronic group exhibited ongoing but attenuated markers of inflammation and oxidative stress compared to the acute group . These findings suggest that genetic instability alone may not fully explain the observed clinical manifestations , emphasizing the role of persistent inflammation and metabolic dysregulation . This study provides a comprehensive view of the interplay between genomic instability , inflammation , oxidative damage , and systemic alterations in post-COVID-19 condition . It underscores the importance of a multifaceted approach to understanding disease mechanisms and the need for longitudinal studies to explore the dynamic nature of these alterations and their long-term health implications .
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) are ubiquitous cellular organelles with a neutral lipid core containing triacylglycerols and cholesteryl esters surrounded by phospholipids . Recent findings indicate that LDs are intricately linked to diseases , such as cancer and neurological disorders , in addition to their roles in cellular senescence and immune responses . Herein , we describe a simple yet robust push-pull molecule , N , N-dimethyl-4- ( 5-nitrothiophen-2-yl ) aniline ( NiTA ) , as a versatile LD fluorescent probe . NiTA showed an absorption spectrum with a substantial bathochromic shift and a fluorescence spectrum with excellent solvatochromism . Leveraging the remarkable photophysical features of NiTA , we stained LDs in major immune cells , including T and B cells , and macrophages , and monitored the changes in LDs under oxidative and starvation conditions . Furthermore , we demonstrated the applicability of NiTA for visualizing the organization of medaka fish ( Oryzias latipes ) embryos during development . We expect the small yet powerful NiTA to be utilized in various applications , including fluorescence mapping to observe LD numbers , morphology , and polarity changes in animals and cells .
Capsicum oleoresin , an active ingredient in hot peppers of the genus Capsicum , is abundant in capsaicinoids . It offers significant health benefits , however due to its high pungency , this makes its pure form very challenging to consume orally . The main aim of this study is to prepare Capsicum oleoresin microparticles for oral delivery and to characterize and evaluate their cytotoxicity , in vitro stability and controlled release in gastrointestinal conditions . Gum Arabic ( GA ) , OSA-modified corn starch ( EMCAP ) , modified malt ( MALT ) , and their ratio 1 : 1 combination ( GA : EMCAP ; EMCAP : MALT ; MALT : GA ) were employed as wall materials resulting in six different oil-in-water emulsions containing 15 % solids ( 5 % Capsicum oleoresin and 95 % wall material ) . These formulations were homogenized and spray dried . The encapsulation efficiency of each formulation was determined by Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography ( UPLC ) . The formulated microparticles , individual microparticle components , and Capsicum oleoresin were tested for cytotoxicity on human intestinal monolayers Caco-2 and HepG2 liver cells . Furthermore , the INFOGEST static in vitro simulation assessed the digestion of microparticles using UPLC to obtain % capsaicin release . The highest encapsulation efficiency was obtained for EMCAP : MALT ( 4 % ) , MALT : GA ( 2 % ) , and GA ( 5 % ) . LC-QToF analysis identified capsinoids , capsaicinoids , and organic compounds in Capsicum oleoresin and microparticles . Identification of these components was also confirmed by Raman spectroscopy . All particles exhibited irregular surfaces , teeth concavities , and different sizes typical of spray-dried particles using carbohydrates as wall material . In vitro , cytotoxicity studies of all formulations with five concentrations ranging from 5 to 100 mug/ml showed no significant cytotoxicity after exposure times of 4 h on Caco-2 and 72 h on HepG2 cells . Microparticles resulted in higher degradation of color and capsaicin during storage at 45 degrees C compared to at 25 degrees C . In vitro digestion showed MALT : GA microparticles started with a 4 % release in the oral phase after 2 min of digestion . A further 2 h incubation in simulated gastric fluid resulted in a cumulative release of 25 % , followed by 6 % of capsaicin after 4 h in the intestinal fluid . This data reassures us about MALT : GA ' s effective capsaicin delivery potential , which presents a better profile of delivering capsaicin in high amounts into the intestine . These findings contribute to developing more efficient delivery systems , providing new insights into bioactive compounds ' stability , released profiles , and safety , thus paving the way for improved applications in functional foods .
Peanut oil body ( POB ) refers to intact micron-sized organelles in plants that store lipids , functioning as natural oil-in-water emulsion systems . This characteristic has garnered significant interest in the food industry due to the excellent emulsifying properties and safety of POB . In this study , POB was utilized as the ink for direct 3D printing of soft food products without the addition of any cross-linking agent , and the underlying mechanisms were investigated . First , POB-based inks with favorable rheological and self-supporting properties were prepared from two types of peanuts with varying oleic acid contents , exhibiting behavior akin to high internal phase emulsions . Second , direct 3D printing of POB was achieved for the first time by modulating the interfacial properties of POB through pH adjustment , which influenced the composition and molecular interactions of the ink phase components . Notably , the ink derived from high oleic acid peanuts demonstrated superior printability under elevated pH conditions . Third , a novel mechanism for the direct 3D printability of POB is proposed . This mechanism involves the elution of interfacial proteins , decreased hydration and alterations in the phase composition of the ink system , thereby enhancing printing performance . Additionally , changes in interfacial properties improved hydrophobic interactions and electrostatic forces , leading to the formation of network structures with elastoplastic rheological properties that enhanced self-supporting capabilities . In summary , this study successfully achieved direct 3D printing of POB ink for the first time , elucidated the mechanisms underlying the printability of POB , and proposed a novel strategy for the 3D printing of high-oil food-grade inks . These findings offer valuable insights for the future development of 3D printing applications of POB in the food industry .
The global burden of hypercholesterolemia is approximately 6 million deaths and 7 million disability adjusted life years . Using modified mango kernel starch to manage and prevent hypercholesterolemia has garnered international interest . According to growing data , starch treated with acid has been shown to enhance lipid metabolism by reducing the concentration of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in the plasma of hypercholesterolemic patients . The present study aims to determine the effect of modified mango kernel starch on the hypercholesterolemic mice model . Mango kernel starches harvested from different species of Mangifera indica . Raw starches were then subjected to chemical modification using acid hydrolysis method . An in-vivo hypercholesterolemic model was developed using C57BL/6 to investigate the effect of chemically modified starch . Acid hydrolysis treatment in mango kernel starch resulted in a considerable increase in water-holding capacity , amylose content without affecting oil-binding capacities . FTIR spectra report revealed interactions between starch chains in the modified and native starches . SEM image showed the changes in surface micrographs of modified mango kernel starch . Modified mango kernel starch significantly improved total cholesterol , triglycerides , and lipid peroxidation in hypercholesterolemic mice . Furthermore , the administration of modified mango kernel starch markedly impeded the rise in plasma TNF-alpha and IL-6 levels . Modified mango kernel starch treated animals showed reduced expression of cholesterol-related proteins in the liver , including FAS , ACC , and SREBP All the results indicate that modified mango kernel starch can be an excellent alternative for therapeutic intervention of hypercholesterolemic individuals with the potential to act as a fat replacer .
Pungency is one of the most important mouthfeel characteristics of distilled spirits . Organic acids constitute significant components of alcoholic spirits , nevertheless , their influence on pungency has not been thoroughly investigated . In this study , the influence of organic acids on the dynamic perception of pungency sensation elicited by ethanol and ester compounds was explored by time-intensity and temporal dominance sensations analysis . The results indicate that the addition of acetic acid and hexanoic acid at low to medium concentrations ( < 1000 mg/L ) led to a reduction in both the maximum intensity and overall intensity of pungency . However , the addition of these acids at high concentrations increased the maximum and overall pungency intensity . Besides , the addition of hexanoic acid , acetic acid , and lactic acid at certain concentration significantly delayed the time of pungency reached to maximum intensity , and shorten the duration of pungency sensation , as well as reduced the dominance rate of tingling , drying , numbing , and salivating during evaluation . The suppression of pungency by organic acids is likely related to interactions between sourness and pungency , changes in ester-to-acid ratios , and increased saliva stimulation . The comprehension of the impact of organic acids on pungency perception greatly contributes to improve the mouthfeel and palatability of distilled spirits .
The purpose of this paper is to reduce the acid value of rice bran crude oil and make a new rice bran oil ( RBO ) with conjugated linoleic acid ( CLA ) . Linoleic acid isomerase from Bifidobacterium breve was immobilized on a magnetic nanoflower carrier of FeO-SiO-NFs . Molecular docking simulations were performed to investigate the interaction and binding mode conformation between isomerase and linoleic acid ( LA ) molecules by using computer software . This isomerase was used in isomerization reaction of high acid value RBO . Under the optimal enzymatic isomerization conditions , the conversion rate of LA was 13 % . The content of c9-CLA and t11-CLA in the product of enzymatic isomerization reaction was 50 +/- 25 % . After six repeated uses , the relative activity of the immobilized enzyme remained above 70 % . Esterification reaction was performed from monoacylglycerol and RBO with CLA under the catalysis of magnetic immobilized lipase . The CLA glyceride content was 09 +/- 53 % in new RBO product . The acid value of RBO decreased to 31 +/- 15 mgKOH/g , and the peroxide value was 03 +/- 14 mmol/kg . It may provide a sustainable pathway for RBO refining that combines deacidification with CLA-functionalization .
The presence of ochratoxin A ( OTA ) in dry-cured sausages is a current hazard . To control its contamination , the use of biocontrol agents ( BCAs ) of plant and microbial origin as anti-ochratoxigenic strategies is being carried out . The aim of this study was to evaluate the anti-ochratoxigenic effect of rosemary essential oil ( REO ) , acorn shell extract ( AE ) and Debaryomyces hansenii against OTA production by Penicillium nordicum in the Spanish dry-cured sausages " chorizo " . For this purpose , BCAs were individually and in combination inoculated in the presence of P . nordicum on the surface of portions of " chorizo " and incubated under typical ripening conditions . Samples were taken for analysing OTA production and proteomic profile variation as well as for physico-chemical and sensory analyses of the sausage portions . Individual application of REO and AE significantly increased OTA production , likely as a response to stressful stimuli . On the other hand , treatments that included D . hansenii significantly decreased it , apparently due to the influence of this yeast on triggering OTA degradation processes of P . nordicum . Although physico-chemical and sensory characteristics were altered in some cases , the degree of acceptability was high . These results reflect the possibility of using D . hansenii as an effective BCA with the ability to mitigate increased OTA production in the presence of plant-derived BCAs inoculated on the surface of " chorizo " . Additionally , the sensory results suggest a plausible industrial application due to the absence of negative effects on the final product .
Cream , butter , and anhydrous milk fat are the most widespread high-fat dairy products produced and consumed globally , appreciated for their nutritional value and appealing flavor . For manufacturers , understanding the flavor of these products by closely examining their sensory attributes and chemical properties is crucial to maintaining high-quality flavors and ensuring consumer acceptance . This review provides a comprehensive and up-to-date analysis of the flavor aspects of these high-fat dairy products , focusing on the mechanisms of aroma-active compound formation , odor assessment methods ( including extraction , qualitative analysis , identification , and chemometric approaches ) , and descriptive sensory evaluation techniques . Over 100 aroma-active substances have been identified in high-fat dairy products , with aldehydes , lactones , and ketones as significant contributors . These aroma-active substances formation occurs primarily through lipolysis , proteolysis , and fermentation . Advanced analytical techniques show promise for comprehensive flavor profiling ; however , challenges remain in correlating instrumental data with sensory perceptions . Future research should focus on identifying trace off-flavors , improving extraction methods , and developing rapid , non-destructive quality control techniques to enhance sensitivity , real-time monitoring , portability , time efficiency , and visualization for a complete flavor profile . Additionally , these efforts will provide deeper insight into the factors contributing to flavor variations during processing , improve quality control , and enhance the marketability of innovative dairy products .
Thermal processing is widely used to ensure food safety and extend shelf life by inactivating microorganisms and enzymes . However , it often leads to undesirable heat-induced degradation and molecular aggregation , compromising food quality . In response , the food industry is increasingly adopting non-thermal processing technologies-such as high-pressure processing , ultrasound , pulsed electric fields , cold atmospheric plasma , and supercritical carbon dioxide-as innovative strategies to preserve or enhance the sensory and nutritional attributes of food . This review critically examines the mechanisms and effects of these emerging technologies on the physicochemical properties of major food macromolecules , including starch , proteins , and lipids . These non-thermal methods induce structural and functional modifications at both the molecular and macrostructural levels , influencing texture , flavor , and nutritional profiles . Despite growing evidence of their impact , the mechanistic understanding of cross-interactions among starch , proteins , and lipids under non-thermal treatments remains limited . Elucidating these complex interactions is crucial for optimizing processing conditions and achieving targeted functionality in food matrices . This highlights a key research gap and underscores the need for advanced analytical approaches to fully exploit the potential of non-thermal technologies in food design .
Evaluating the oxidative stability of oleogels and oils during storage is essential , considering the effects that humidity , temperature and light can have on their composition , structure , and sensory properties . However , most methods for evaluating this quality parameter are laborious and use environmentally harmful chemicals . Thus , our proposal was to explore the use of non-destructive , eco-friendly , portable , fast , and effective near-infrared ( NIR ) and Raman spectrometers to predict the oxidative stability of oleogels and their respective oils over storage for 8 months , evaluating peroxide index and free fatty acid as quality parameters . Three types of oleogels containing 95 % ( w/w ) oil ( sunflower , soy , olive ) and 5 % ( w/w ) beeswax were produced . The NIR spectra evaluated over storage were pre-processed and principal component analysis was performed to observe how spectral information was affected . Classification and regression models were then performed by partial least squares discriminant analysis . PLSDA models to classify storage period yielded 83 % and 71 % accuracy using handheld and portable Raman and NIR spectra , respectively . Performance of partial least squares regression model for peroxide index and free fatty acid content achieved residual predictive deviations and coefficients of determination higher than 5 and 8 , respectively , for the external validation set . Since only beeswax was used as the structuring agent , other oleogelators need to be explored to assess the robustness of the techniques . However , NIR and Raman spectroscopy are promising techniques for classifying and predicting compositional change of oleogels during storage , with greater agility and less risk to the environment than conventional techniques .
An esterified starch-based antibacterial sustained-release smart film was prepared , using esterified starch ( DASt ) as a matrix , purple corncob anthocyanin ( PCA ) as an indicator and tangerine peel essential oil ( TEO ) as an antimicrobial agent . The effects of anthocyanins and essential oil emulsions on the physical , optical , functional , and indication properties of smart films were studied and applied to pork freshness detection . In addition , the effects of the esterified starch on anthocyanin dissolution and the mechanism of anthocyanin release from the film were analyzed . The results showed that esterification changed the surface pores of starch granules and introduced new groups into the starch molecules . The mechanical strength , water contact angle , light transmission , antimicrobial and antioxidant properties and water vapor transmission of the film were significantly improved using esterified starch as a substrate . In monitoring pork quality , DASt-5 showed identifiable color changes , with film color difference values ( DeltaE ) of 12 for spoiled pork and 14 for completely spoiled pork , and was well correlated with linear and polynomial fitness ( R > 97 ) . According to the Ritger-Peppas equation , the n value of anthocyanin release from DASt-5 was 531 , which indicated that anthocyanin release from films was the result of a combination of anthocyanin self-release and skeleton lysis . This indicator film has great potential for application in indicating the freshness of food .
The present study aimed to developed astaxanthin ( AST ) -loaded liposomes in different forms ( free and ester forms ) and with varying E/Z-isomer ratios and compare their physicochemical properties . Four liposomes , i . e . , liposomes of free-form all-E- and Z-isomer-rich AST ( E- and Z-AST-Free-L , respectively ) and ester-form all-E- and Z-isomer-rich AST ( E- and Z-AST-Ester-L , respectively ) were prepared using soybean lecithin and cholesterol via thin-film dispersion technique , and encapsulation efficiency of AST , E/Z-isomer ratio of encapsulated AST , morphology , release characteristics , and storage stability were investigated . All liposomes exhibited multilamellar structures with high encapsulation efficiency ( > 98 % ) . Under simulated intestinal conditions , E- and Z-AST-Ester-L , especially Z-AST-Ester-L , demonstrated higher AST release compared to E- and Z-AST-Free-L . Storage tests at 5 and 30 degrees C revealed that E- and Z-AST-Ester-L and E-AST-Free-L showed high storage stability , whereas Z-AST-Free-L exhibited comparatively low stability . These observations provide valuable insights into the production of AST-loaded liposomes with enhanced health benefits and practical applications .
Natural polyphenolic extracts have been recognized to reduce the risk of hypertension . Coupled with evidence that gut dysbiosis is tightly linked to the development of hypertension , we hypothesized that modulating gut microbiota may be associated with the benefits of unripe apple polyphenols extract ( UAPE ) . This study aimed to explore the effects of UAPE on hypertension and its complications , while elucidating the underlying mechanisms in spontaneously hypertensive rats ( SHR ) . SHR received either vehicle ( ddHO ) , captopril ( 30 mg/kg body weight/day ) , or low-dose ( 10 mg/kg body weight/day ) , middle-dose ( 50 mg/kg body weight/day ) , or high-dose ( 250 mg/kg body weight/day ) UAPE by oral gavage daily for 8 weeks . Concurrently , Wistar-Kyoto ( WKY ) rats received vehicle to serve as normotensive controls . We observed that UAPE offered protective effects against hypertension-induced blood pressure elevation ( systolic blood pressure , diastolic blood pressure ) , glycolipid metabolic disorders ( serum lipids , glucose ) , and renal damage ( serum creatinine , renal histopathology ) in SHR . Additionally , UAPE exerted gut health benefits via enhancing intestinal barrier integrity ( colonic and ileal histopathology , colonic tight junction protein 1 and Occludin mRNA and protein ) and mitigating intestinal inflammation ( colonic TNFalpha and IL-6 mRNA ) in SHR . Moreover , UAPE effectively alleviated the development of left ventricular hypertrophy ( cardiac histopathology , echocardiography ) and endothelial dysfunction ( serum endothelial nitric oxide synthase , endothelin-1 ) , both critical markers of hypertensive progression . Mechanistically , the anti-inflammatory effects of UAPE may be linked to the colonic inhibition of the HMGB1-TLR4-NF-kappaB signaling pathway ( mRNA and protein for colonic HMGB1 , TLR4 , and P-P65 ) in SHR . Notably , UAPE elevated microbial richness and diversity , normalizing the Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio . Besides , UAPE increased the beneficial bacteria linked to healthy states , including Intestinimonas_butyriciproducens , Lactobacillus_intestinalis , Ruminiclostridium , Oscillibacter_sp . , and Bifidobacterium , reduced the harmful bacteria related to hypertension , upregulated health-promoting microbial function , and elevated the concentrations of gut microbiota-derived short chain fatty acids , including acetic acid and butyric acid , in SHR . Collectively , these observations support the antihypertensive effects of UAPE in the SHR model , highlighting the intimate link between UAPE , gut microbiota , and hypertension . Our findings provide novel insights into the UAPE-mediated improvements in hypertension and its complications , which may be intricately linked to the modulation of the microbiota-gut axis .
The differences in the microbiota and metabolites from the different vertical stratification in Jiupei are obvious but not entirely clear . This study used high-throughput sequencing and metabolomics techniques to explore the microbiome and metabolites of varying vertical stratification in Jiupei and their relationships . The results showed that most beneficial metabolites , including pentadecanoic acid , ricinoleic acid , and epigallocatechin , were significantly higher in the lower Jiupei layer . Some volatile compounds gradually showed upregulation with increased Jiupei depth , mainly esters , ketones , and terpenoids . The bacterial community diversity of Jiupei decreased significantly with the increase in depth , Acetilactobacillus jinshanensis dominated the Jiupei bacterial community , and its relative abundance increased significantly ( P < 05 ) with the rise of Jiupei depth ( P < 05 ) . The fungi Aspergillus oryzae ( P = 057 ) and Byssochlamys spectabilis increased significantly , Dipodascus australiensis ( P < 05 ) , Pichia kudriavzevii ( P = 08 ) , and Dipodascus geotrichum ( P < 05 ) gradually decreased . The correlation relationship analysis revealed that the dominant microbes that caused the metabolites and volatile compounds differences were the bacterium Acetilactobacillus jinshanensis and the fungus Aspergillus oryzae as well as Byssochlamys spectabilis , which may be through biosynthesis of other secondary metabolites and lipid metabolism to impact the Jiupei metabolites . The study demonstrated the microbiome and metabolite differences in three layers of Jiupei and the effect of microbes on the characteristic metabolite formation of strong-flavor baijiu .
Mechanistic investigation of moderate roasting on gas cell stabilization in steamed oat cakes revealed through the dynamic changes of stomatal distribution , protein structural and liquor properties of moderately gelatinized oat dough ( RG50 ) during the fermentation process . The results showed that after fermentation for 60 min , RG50 dough exhibited retarded water mobility compared to raw oat dough ( ROF ) , as evidenced by distinct water redistribution of ROF sample . Viscoelastic parameter decay followed exponential kinetics ( Expdec1 model ) , with RG50 oat dough demonstrating minimal viscosity modulus reduction . Moreover , the bubbles of oat dough appeared disproportionation or coalescence phenomena , and RG50 oat dough formed relatively uniform pores in size and distribution . Considering the protein-starch network matrix of dough , the cross-linking or depolymerization of proteins in the fermentation process were in a dynamic state . Short-term fermentation primarily reduced the contents of both larger and smaller SDS-soluble polymeric protein in oat dough , whereas prolonged fermentation predominantly increased the contents of smaller monomeric proteins . Liquid phase characterization revealed that the gel-like substance rather than liquor was separated by ultracentrifugation of RG50 system after 60 min fermentation , which attributed to the high viscosity and retarded water migration of RG50 dough . Lipid redistribution in the liquid phase exhibited marked attenuation , concomitant with enhancement of foaming capacity and surface tension in ROF dough liquor as fermentation progressed .
Citrus peel is the largest waste by mass of citrus fruit mass in the food industry , and it is specifically composed of valuable bioactive components such as phenolic compounds ( naringin and hesperidin , predominantly ) , dietary fibers , essential oils like limonene and carotenoids . Green extraction methods , which refer to environmentally friendly techniques that minimize solvent use and energy consumption , are beneficial for achieving high efficiency in extracting these bioactive compounds . Therefore , it is critical to extract the bioactive components using ultrasound-assisted , microwave-assisted , enzyme-assisted , CO assisted , high intensity pulsed electric field , and so on . Moreover , not only the health benefits of the bioactive components such as anti-inflammatory , anti-cancer , anti-aging , cholesterol reduction effects , but also their potential to be used in functional foods thanks to the functional properties such as gelling agent , emulsifier , pigment and flavor enhancer , antioxidant agent are currently being investigated in the literature . In this review , the extraction of citrus fruits such as lemon , grapefruit , mandarin , orange and pomelo by various green extraction methods and food application studies with their functional properties in recent years have been discussed .
OBJECTIVE : To verify the effectiveness of an educational intervention on the components of metabolic syndrome in adults with type 2 diabetes . METHODS : A non-randomized clinical trial included 51 adults ( 73+/-84 years old ; 3% women ) diagnosed with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome ( intervention group , n=26 ; control group , n=25 ) . The intervention consisted of a multidisciplinary health promotion educational program over six months , structured in seven workshops led by nurses . The primary outcome was the improvement of metabolic syndrome components , and the secondary outcome was the reduction in the number of metabolic syndrome criteria assessed at two time points , baseline and after six months of monitoring . RESULTS : Compared to the control group , the educational program reduced glucose levels ( p=001 ) and improved high-density lipopro-tein cholesterol concentrations ( p=001 ) in the intervention group participants at six months . A significant decrease in the mean metabolic syndrome score was observed in the intervention group , while the control group showed an increase ( p=033 ) . At the end of the study , 5% of the participants in the intervention group no longer met the criteria for metabolic syndrome . CONCLUSION : A nurse-led health promotion educational program was effective in improving glucose and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels among adults with type 2 diabetes and metabolic syndrome , as well as reducing the number of metabolic syndrome components in the participants .
Small extracellular vesicles ( sEVs ) are small membrane vesicles of endocytic origin secreted into the extracellular environment by all cell types and are known to play a crucial role in intercellular and intracellular communication . These vesicles contain proteins , nucleic acids and lipids and their molecular content reflect the normal and pathophysiological conditions of the host cells . Hence , there is a significant interest in cataloguing the molecular content of sEVs in various conditions as this would aid researchers in understanding the biological roles and altered cellular processes under various diseases and healthy state . Here we report ExoCarta ( http : //www . exocarta . org ) , a freely accessible web-based compendium of studies that encompasses DNA , RNA , proteins , and lipids that are detected in sEVs . ExoCarta catalogues both published and unpublished sEV studies . Current version of ExoCarta contains data from 1249 sEV studies , 119 , 489 protein entries , 15 , 868 RNA entries , 3 , 946 lipid entries and quantitative data for 24 , 073 entries . QUANT , a quantitative plugin , enables users to compare protein abundance between conditions in a study for gene/protein of interest in real time . ExoCarta provides Gene Ontology ( GO ) annotations and reactome pathways along with dynamic protein-protein interaction networks , for sEV proteins . A tab delimited file containing the most identified sEV proteins is available for users to download . The integration of sEV DNA studies , QUANT and regularly updated dataset of the ExoCarta database makes it an invaluable resource for small extracellular vesicles researchers across the globe .
Butyrate is a four-carbon short-chain fatty acid produced from microbial fermentation of dietary fibers present at high millimolar concentrations in the colonic lumen . However , in an intact epithelium , macrophages residing in the lamina propria are exposed to only micromolar butyrate concentrations . Current studies show anti-inflammatory properties of butyrate and suggest that it might have therapeutic applications in inflammatory bowel disease and colonic cancer . We now show that the effect of butyrate on human macrophages is strongly concentration dependent : 1 mM butyrate suppresses LPS-induced production of the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) -alpha . Experiments with siRNA knockdown and small molecule inhibitors suggest that this is mediated by a mechanism involving PPAR-gamma signaling , whereas we observed no or only a minor effect of histone acetylation . In contrast , 10 mM butyrate promotes macrophage cell death , does not inhibit LPS-induced production of TNF-alpha , and promotes production of IL-1beta , while production of anti-inflammatory IL-10 is reduced in a mechanism involving G protein-coupled receptors , the lipid transporter CD36 , and the kinase SRC . We propose that butyrate is a signaling molecule for intestinal integrity , since intestinal disruption exposes macrophages to high butyrate concentrations .
BACKGROUND : This study investigated the inflammatory and gut microbiota profile in chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) patients undergoing hemodialysis ( HD ) and peritoneal dialysis ( PD ) . METHODS : A total of 249 patients undergoing HD and 61 patients on PD participated in the study . The mRNA expressions of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor-2 ( NRF2 ) , nuclear factor-kappaappa B ( NF-kappaB ) , mitochondrial transcription factor A ( TFAM ) , peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1-alpha ( PGC-1alpha ) were evaluated in peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) by quantitative real-time PCR . Malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , interleukin 6 ( IL-6 ) , and routine biochemical parameters were also analyzed . The fecal DNA extraction was performed , and the V4 regions of the bacterial 16S ribosomal RNA gene were sequenced . Uremic toxins such as p-cresyl sulfate ( p-CS ) , indoxyl sulfate ( IS ) , and indole-3-acetic acid ( IAA ) plasma levels were determined by HPLC . RESULTS : MDA , IS , and p-CS levels were lower in PD than in HD patients . The mRNA expression of the transcription factors was not different between groups . Gut microbial alpha-diversity indices showed no significant difference between groups , but the beta-diversity was different in PD patients . Members of the genera Meditarraneibacter , Roseburia , Agathobacter , Anaerobutyricum , Collinsella , Streptococcus , Clostridium , and Bacteroides , as well as the families Lachnospiraceae and Enterobacteriaceae , appear to be positively correlated with most dietary factors , particularly lipid and phosphorus intake . CONCLUSION : Our findings indicate that in patients with CKD on HD , there is increased plasma retention of uremic toxins and reduced gut microbial diversity compared to PD patients .
BACKGROUND : Benefits of statin therapy in reducing the long-term risk of ischemic stroke are well-established , but the immediate protective effect of statin therapy on risks of early stroke recurrence after an initial ischemic event are not established . METHODS : In this secondary analysis of POINT data , we evaluated the effects of statins on early stroke recurrence ( within 7 days ) and recurrence over 90 days . We also examined the effect of early statin initiation in the subgroup of subjects not on statins prior to the index event , using logistic and proportional hazards models . RESULTS : In the POINT trial , 175 of 267 ( 5 % ) of ischemic stroke recurrences were early ( within 7 days ) . Baseline statin treatment at the time of study entry was associated with decreased odds of early ischemic stroke recurrence in adjusted logistical regression analysis ( OR 70 , 95 % CI 50-99 , P = 04 ) , an effect only marginally significant in adjusted Cox proportional hazard analyses ( HR 72 , 95 % CI 52-01 , P = 05 ) . In the subset of subjects not taking statin medications at baseline , initiation of statin treatment had no significant protective effect against early stroke recurrence ( adjusted HR 80 , 95 % CI 54-20 , P = 28 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In the POINT trial population , prior treatment with statin was marginally associated with decreased odds of early recurrence of stroke . However initiating statin treatment had no detectable effect in reducing risk of early stroke recurrence . The POINT trial provides no evidence for an immediate protective effect of statin initiation against early stroke recurrence .
The observed beneficial impact of Zanthoxylum alkylamides ( ZA ) in addressing Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) suggests a potential association with short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) and gut microbial composition . This study systematically investigated the influence of ZA on the organ index , c-peptide and lipid levels , gut microbiota composition , SCFAs production , and hepatic glucose metabolism in T2DM rats . The results indicate the success of ZA in treating T2DM rats characterized by hepatomegaly , nephromegaly , elevated blood lipids , and suppressed c-peptide levels . Following ZA intervention , the capacity of T2DM rats to produce SCFAs was not only restored but exceeded normal levels . Additionally , there was an augmentation in gut bacteria diversity , with a heightened abundance of Proteobacteria and an elevated Firmicutes/Bacteroidetes ratio . Conversely , a reduction in Actinobacteria abundance was noted . Importantly , ZA demonstrated the ability to regulate insulin activity and alleviate T2DM by activating the PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling pathway in the liver of rats . In summary , our research reveals promising avenues for managing T2DM , encompassing diagnostic , therapeutic , monitoring , and drug discovery methodologies .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : While the therapeutic promise of anti-inflammatory interventions for obesity-associated cardiomyopathy is well recognized , clinically effective targeted therapies remain to be developed . Here , through systematic anti-inflammatory screening , we elucidated both the therapeutic efficacy and mechanistic basis of a novel indole-substituted acetamide derivative ( compound #3 ) in mitigating obesity-induced cardiomyopathy . METHODS : A high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced obese mouse model was used to evaluate the cardioprotective efficacy of compound # Integrated in vivo and in vitro studies , including transcriptomics , reverse molecular docking , proteomics , surface plasmon resonance , and kinase activity assays , were conducted to systematically identify molecular targets and elucidate the underlying mechanisms . RESULTS : Compound #3 attenuated hypertension in HFD-induced obese mice without altering metabolic parameters ( body weight , blood glucose , and lipid levels ) . This cardioprotective effect was attributed to improved cardiac function and anti-inflammatory mechanisms , including the suppression of NF-kappaB-driven inflammatory injury . Mechanistic studies revealed that compound #3 targeted the L348 residue of ADAM17 , disrupting ADAM17-dependent inflammatory signal amplification . This cascade was primarily initiated by the MD2-P38MAPK/JNK-iRhom2 axis . In addition , compound #3 directly bound to MD2 , inhibiting palmitic acid ( PA ) -induced activation of P38MAPK and JNK . This mechanism blocked the initiation of inflammatory responses and further suppressed ADAM17 and cytokine transcription through the P38MAPK-AP1 axis . CONCLUSION : Compound #3 exhibits a dual-targeting mechanism by simultaneously inhibiting MD2 and ADAM17 , which effectively suppresses both the initiation ( via the MD2-P38MAPK/JNK ) and amplification ( via the P38MAPK/JNK-iRhom2-ADAM17 axis ) of inflammatory cascades , highlighting its strong therapeutic promise for treating saturated fatty acid-induced myocardial pathologies .
The control of geometric isomerism in unsaturated lipids has significant implications for lipid chemistry , yet enzyme-mediated catalysis remains poorly understood . Here we provide a hypothetical structure of a cytochrome c-type cis/trans fatty acid isomerase ( CTI ) from Pseudomonas putida F1 , which catalyzes the cis/trans isomerization of monounsaturated fatty acids . Its catalytic properties were characterized by substrate specificity ( palmitoleic acid > cis-vaccenic acid > oleic acid ) and by Michaelis-Menten kinetics ( k ( cat ) /K ( m ) = 58 x 10 M ( -1 ) s ( -1 ) ) toward palmitoleic acid . Computational modeling suggests that CTI adopts a hexacoordinated octahedral heme C complex , covalently attached to its heme-binding motif and stabilized by proximal His-Fe and distal Met-Fe within a hydrophobic pocket . This model proposes that CTI may distinguish between fatty acid substrates based on the pocket size and the entry tunnel geometry , allowing for optimal alignment of the double bond at the heme center . In addition , its lack of strict recognition may be attributed to a spacious pocket that can accommodate variations in length and double bond position . These findings support a hypothetical mechanism involving single electron transfer by heme and formation of radical intermediates with an sp-hybridized bond , and they may serve as a conceptual basis for designing CTI biocatalysts with tailored properties .
Many agrochemicals disrupt redox homeostasis , yet the dynamics of oxidative stress responses in honey bees ( Apis mellifera ) remain insufficiently understood . This study established a controlled model to monitor ROS-related markers over time following paraquat injection , using Bayesian modeling to characterize time-dependent changes . We observed a transient rise in hydroperoxides and early fluctuation in adipokinetic hormone ( AKH ) levels , which declined and stabilized within 8hours . No significant differences were detected in secondary lipid peroxidation products ( TBARS ) among treatments . While injection does not represent natural exposure pathways , it enables precise dosing and timing , avoiding variability from oral intake . This experimental design provides a tractable system to investigate oxidative stress mechanisms under defined conditions . Our findings underscore the importance of time-resolved analysis in redox physiology and offer a mechanistic framework to complement field-relevant toxicological studies in bees and other beneficial insects .
Inhaled environmental allergens , such as house dust mites ( HDM ) , have been shown to induce an inflammatory reaction , tissue injury , and increased airway sensitivity in the lungs , ultimately leading to the development of allergic asthma . The imbalance of respiratory microbiota and metabolites plays a crucial role in the progression of allergic asthma . However , there is limited knowledge available regarding the alterations in respiratory microbiota and metabolites and their impact on the host in the context of asthma . The aim of this study was to investigate the potential pathways involved in the development of asthma through the analysis of lung flora and metabolites . A mouse model of house dust mite ( HDM ) -induced asthma was established , and alveolar lavage samples were collected for microbiome 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted metabolic analysis . Microbiological analyses indicated a significant alteration in the microbiota after 4 and 6 weeks of HDM nebulisation stimulation . This was characterized by a decrease in microbial diversity , as well as reductions in the relative proportion of Gallionella and Lactobacillus . Conversely , the abundance of Flavobacterium and Ralstonia increased in the HDM4W and HDM6W groups , respectively . Metabolomic analyses revealed seven distinct metabolites , among them L-malic acid , which were linked to signaling pathways in a mouse model of HDM-induced asthma . The correlation analysis demonstrated a positive association between L-malic acid and Rhodanobacter and Nocardioides . L-malic acid was discovered to be efficacious in reducing airway inflammation in mice with house dust mite-induced asthma . Further analysis revealed that this change was linked to lipid peroxidation and changes in ferroptosis markers , namely GPX4 and FTH . These findings suggest that L-malate inhibits ferroptosis . However , the introduction of ferroptosis inducers , such as Erastin , was observed to negate the beneficial effect of butyrate . In summary , this research implies that the respiratory microbiota metabolite L-malic acid lessens airway inflammation in asthma by inhibiting ferroptosis , offering a potential approach for managing asthma .
Lipid droplets ( LDs ) store lipids in cells , provide phospholipids for membrane synthesis , and maintain the intracellular balance of energy and lipid metabolism . Undoubtedly , the crosstalk between LDs and other organelles is the foundation for performing functions . Many studies indicate that LDs promote tumor progression . LD accumulation has been observed in a variety of cancers , and high LD content is associated with malignant phenotype and poor prognosis of cancers . In this paper , we summarized the intimate crosstalk between LDs and intracellular organelles , including endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , mitochondria , lysosomes and peroxisomes , and addressed the effects of LD-organelle crosstalk on cancer initiation and progression . We also integrated the changes of LD-organelle interactions in cancers to provide an insightful knowledge for cancer therapeutics .
Cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) are the leading cause of global mortality , with immune responses playing a central role in their pathogenesis . Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 ( TREM2 ) is a key immune regulator in CVDs , influencing inflammation , lipid metabolism , and tissue repair . This review comprehensively examines TREM2 ' s structure , function , and signaling pathways , highlighting its roles in atherosclerosis , myocardial infarction , hypertension , atrial fibrillation , and heart failure . In atherosclerosis , macrophages with high TREM2 expression ( TREM2 ( hi ) macrophages ) promote plaque progression in early stages but enhance plaque stability in advanced stages . In myocardial infarction , TREM2 modulates macrophage diversity and efferocytosis , aiding cardiac repair . TREM2 also plays a protective role in hypertensive heart disease by reducing inflammation and promoting tissue repair . Challenges in targeting TREM2 therapeutically include its context-dependent effects and complex signaling pathways . Future research should focus on elucidating TREM2 ' s mechanisms in CVDs and developing stage-specific therapies .
Inhaled antibiotics significantly impact respiratory-disorder management through targeted delivery with reduced systemic side effects . Advances in pharmaceutical formulations , particularly lipid-based nanomedicine , help improve biopharmaceutical performance and therapeutic efficacy . In addition , advancements in inhaler technologies ensure effective lung deposition and minimize systemic exposure . These innovations have further benefited chronic respiratory diseases like cystic fibrosis and COPD , where infections are frequent . For instance , the encapsulation of inhaled antibiotics , particularly the tobramycin liposomal system , has improved efficacy and reduced toxicity , whereas the nebulized colistin nanoformulation effectively targets multidrug-resistant pathogens , including the clinical efficacy of amikacin liposome inhalation in refractory pulmonary infections . Overall , advancements in lipid-based nanoformulation and delivery technologies have significantly enhanced the utility of inhaled antibiotics , providing safer and more-effective options for managing chronic and resistant infections .
Atrazine ( ATZ ) , acetochlor ( ACE ) , and metolachlor ( MET ) are widely used herbicides whose residues persist in the environment , contributing to the mixed pollution of aquatic ecosystems . However , the mechanisms underlying their environmental behavior and biological effects remain poorly understood . In this study , we systematically investigated the transfer , bioaccumulation , and elimination of ATZ , ACE , and MET in fish ( Procypris merus ) under single and combined exposure conditions . The results indicate that after exposure in water , ATZ , ACE , and MET extensively accumulate in the muscle tissue of P . merus , accounting for 71%-84% of the total pesticide accumulation , making it the primary storage site for these herbicides . Under mixed exposure conditions , the three herbicides exhibited time-dependent synergistic toxic effects . Combined exposure to ATZ , ACE , and MET significantly increased the concentrations of ATZ and ACE in the liver , as well as the K ( up ) and BCF of ACE and MET . During the purification and detoxification phases , the gills exhibited the highest purification rate , nearly twice that of the intestines and liver . The distribution of herbicides in various tissues was positively correlated with hydrophobicity ( log Kow ) and lipid content . Using UPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS/MS , the metabolites of ATZ , ACE , and MET were identified and analyzed . The three pesticides were primarily metabolized in the lotus carp through dealkylation , hydroxylation , and conjugation with glutathione/glucose . A total of 9 ATZ metabolites , 11 ACE metabolites , and 10 MET metabolites were identified , 19 of which were detected in fish for the first time . rac-MET displayed distinct stereoselective behavior , with the liver preferentially enriching the 1 ' S , alpha ' R-MET isomer . This study provides a robust dataset for understanding the environmental and dietary risks of the target herbicides associated with residues that persist for prolonged periods .
Atherosclerosis can be described as a local acquired lysosomal storage disorder ( LSD ) , resulting from the build-up of undegraded material in lysosomes . Atherosclerotic foam cells accumulate cholesterol ( Chol ) and glycosphingolipids ( GSLs ) within lysosomes . This constitutes the ideal milieu for the formation of a side product of lysosomal storage : glucosylated cholesterol ( GlcChol ) , previously found in several LSDs . Using LC-MS/MS , we demonstrated that GlcChol is abundant in atherosclerotic lesions . Patients suffering from cardiovascular diseases presented unaltered plasma GlcChol levels but slightly elevated GlcChol/Chol ratios . Furthermore , we mimicked GlcChol formation in vitro by exposing macrophages ( Mphi ) to a pro-atherogenic oxidized cholesteryl ester , an atherosclerosis foam cell model . Additionally , Mphi exposed to GlcChol exhibited an enlarged and multinucleated phenotype . These Mphi present signs of decreased proliferation and reduced pro-inflammatory capacity . Mechanistically the process seems to be associated with the activation of the AMPK signalling pathway and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1 ( CDKN1A/p21 ) , in response to DNA damage inflicted by reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . At the organelle level , exposure to GlcChol impacted the lysosomal compartment , resulting in the activation of the mTOR signalling pathway and lysosomal biogenesis mediated by the transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) . This suggests that high concentrations of GlcChol impact cellular homeostasis . In contrast , under this threshold GlcChol formation most likely represents a relatively innocuous compensatory mechanism to cope with Chol and GSL build-up within lesions . Our findings demonstrate that glycosidase-mediated lipid modifications may play a role in the aetiology of genetic and acquired LSDs , warranting further investigation .
Women develop alcohol-associated liver disease ( ALD ) faster than men at any level of alcohol consumption , implicating estrogen as a contributing factor . However , the precise mechanism remains unknown . Therefore , 12-weeks-old female C57BL/6N mice were subjected to either bilateral ovariectomy ( OVX ) or sham surgery . After a three-week recovery period , the mice were fed either a 5% ethanol ( EtOH ) -containing liquid diet or paired-fed control diet for 10 days followed by a single gavage dose of EtOH ( 5 g/kg , 30% EtOH solution ) . The mice were examined for serum biochemical parameters , hepatotoxicity , histology , expression of xenobiotic nuclear receptors PXR and CAR , and their target gene mRNAs and proteins in hepatic and perigonadal white adipose tissues ( pgWAT ) . While OVX mice on a control diet significantly gained weight , EtOH significantly increased hepatotoxicity , residual EtOH levels , lipid peroxidation , and oxidative stress in sham-operated mice but not in their OVX counterparts . Additionally , in the livers and pgWAT of the sham mice , EtOH significantly increased the mRNA and/or protein levels of the major estrogen receptor ERalpha , PXR , CAR , and their target genes , proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines , lipogenic genes , and FGF21 levels , a predictive biomarker for ALD severity in humans , but inhibited NRF2 and its targets genes encoding NQO1 and BHMT . Unexpectedly , all these changes were attenuated in the EtOH-fed OVX mice by the upregulation of NRF2 and aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) and their downstream antioxidant target genes . Together these results suggest the existence of an estrogen-regulated ERalpha-PXR-NRF2-signaling axis in liver and pgWAT which contributes to sexual dimorphism in ALD .
OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the effect of dietary supplementation with Brazilian green propolis-BrGrProp on biochemical parameters and dietary intake in People Living with Diabetes - PLWD . METHOD : Randomized double-blind study performed for thirty days . PLWD ( n = 62/Phase-1 : PLWD supplemented with BrGrProp ( G1/n = 31 ) and another treated with Manihot esculenta starch ( Placebo/n = 31 ) . From this group , 22 PLWD ( G2 ) participated in the study being treated with BrGrProp , characterized as Phase- PLWD received capsules ( 2x 500 mg/day ) of BrGrProp or Placebo . Fasting blood glucose , glycated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) , total cholesterol and fractions , pyruvic glutamic transaminase , oxalacetic glutamic transaminase , gamma glutamyl transferase , and dietary intake data were determined at the beginning and end of the study . Statistical analysis was performed using the SPSS 21/Minitab-17/Prisma RESULTS : Phase-1 : no significant changes were observed in the analyzed parameters . Phase 2 : Improvement in glycemic parameters ( FBG and HbA1c ) and most lipid parameters ( TC , LDL , HDL and TG ) , with reduction in the level of Hb1Ac ( p = 023 ) , increase in the level of HDL ( p = 048 ) and in the food intake of the PLWD . The indicators of liver function did not show significant changes . CONCLUSION : BrGrProp in the diet generates beneficial effects for diabetics , characterized by improvement of HbA1c and HDL parameters , without causing detectable harmful changes .
This study hypothesized that polyphenol-rich Duea Ching fruit extract ( DCE ) could enhance the oxidative and physical stabilities of oil-in-water emulsions . Antioxidant potential of ethanolic DCE was examined and the quality of Asian seabass oil-in-water emulsions incorporated with DCE at 1 % and 3 % was determined during 24 days . DCE using 60 % ethanol as extracting medium was rich in polyphenols . ( +/- ) -catechin and procyanidin B2 were dominant when analyzed via LC/MS with negative and positive ion modes . It showed DPPH , ABTS , peroxyl radical and HO scavenging , along with ORAC and MCA . Emulsions containing 3 % DCE demonstrated improved stability , with smaller droplet size , and lower flocculation and coalescence index than the control . Lipid oxidation was significantly reduced ( P < 05 ) , as confirmed by FTIR . Additionally , the 3 % DCE emulsion retained more polyunsaturated fatty acids and showed lower formation of hexanal and 2 , 4-heptadienal during storage . Thus , DCE could be promising antioxidant in emulsion .
Diabetic wound healing poses a significant clinical challenge with limited therapeutic efficacy due to uncontrolled reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , inflammatory responses , and extracellular matrix ( ECM ) degradation caused by abnormal macrophage activity in the wound microenvironment . To address these concerns , we propose a novel formulation that combines Tempo-conjugated lipid with the commercially cationic lipid DOTAP to expedite diabetic wound healing through targeted siRNA delivery ( cLpT@siRNA ) and restoration of the wound microenvironment . The developed cLpT@siRNA nanocomplexes effectively scavenge excessive ROS levels , facilitate polarization of proinflammatory M1 macrophages towards an anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype , and suppress MMP9 gene expression in macrophages . In the ICR mouse model of diabetic wounds , cLpT@siRNA nanocomplexes significantly accelerate wound healing , promoting neovascularization and collagen deposition . Overall , the cLpT@siRNA nanocomplexes based on antioxidant and cationic lipids provide a promising strategy for delivering siRNA in diabetic wound treatment and hold great potential for clinical translation .
Iron is one of the essential trace elements required for maintaining life , and it participates in several physiological activities . Comprehensive direct targeting of iron in tissue slices will be more conducive to exploring the physiological processes of iron metabolism disorders . In this study , we introduce a novel matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry imaging ( MALDI-MSI ) methodology designed to map iron distribution comprehensively across tumor tissues and specific brain regions . We selected the reactive matrix based on iron chelating agents to promote the covalent charge labeling of oxygen and iron , which solved the problem of the low detection limit of metal elements when using MSI . Our research expands beyond iron mapping to include the simultaneous detection of molecules associated with energy metabolism in tumor tissues , lipid molecules related to myelin in demyelination models , and both neurotransmitter and lipid molecules in Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) models . This multifaceted approach has unveiled the potential roles of iron in tumor progression and the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases , providing novel insights into its functions during pathological processes .
Exposure to fine particulate matter ( PM ( 5 ) ) from wildfire smoke has been linked to immune dysregulation underlying multiple health conditions , but data on the long-term effects of these exposures during gestation are lacking . Smoke PM ( 5 ) from wildfires occurring in urban areas is of particular concern because it can carry persistent chemicals within household furniture or soil , as well as polyaromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs ) from combusted materials . The present study investigated the long-term associations between wildfire PM ( 5 ) and serum polybrominated diphenyl ethers ( PBDEs ) , polychlorinated biphenyls ( PCBs ) , PAHs and lipid mediators ( i . e . , oxylipins ) involved in immune regulation in participants from the B-SAFE ( Bio-Specimen Assessment of Fire Effects ) study , which enrolled women pregnant during or shortly after the 2017 Tubbs Fire in California ( n = 140 ) . Serum samples were collected and assayed 7 to 13 months post-exposure , at which point 20 women were still pregnant and 120 women were postpartum . Adjusted linear regression models revealed a significant positive association between increasing PM ( 5 ) ( mug/m ) exposure and serum concentrations of benzo[k]fluoranthene , a PAH ( beta = 866 , P = 0403 , [95 %CI : 0389 , 69] ) . No significant associations were observed between PM ( 5 ) exposure and serum PBDEs , PCBs or other PAHs . Increased exposure to PM ( 5 ) was associated with lower serum concentrations of lipoxygenase ( LOX ) -derived free oxylipins and increased concentrations of LOX-derived oxylipins esterified to circulating lipids . These findings provide new evidence of long-term effects of gestational wildfire PM ( 5 ) exposure on serum benzo[k]fluoranthene levels and the turnover of oxylipins involved in immunity via the LOX pathway . Additional studies are warranted to better understand the impact of these changes on maternal and child health .
Prior research has shown that exposure to metals increases corals vulnerability to bleaching by heightened oxidative stress . Understanding the impact of metal contamination on coral health in their natural environmental is crucial . This study investigate the effects of iron ( Fe ) exposure on Brazilian coral reef species . We evaluated the response of Mussismilia harttii , Millepora alcicornis , and Siderastrea sp . to acute ( 4 days ) and chronic ( 28 days ) Fe exposure under environmentally relevant concentrations ( 0 , 100 , 300 and 900 mug L ( -1 ) ) . Experiments were conducted in laboratory and in a marine mesocosm Biomarkers including Fe bioaccumulation , lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , protein carbonylation ( PCN ) , and DNA damage were measured . The correlation between chronic exposure results and environmental factors were also analyzed . The hypotheses were : a ) Fe exposure would increase ROS production in corals , leading to biomolecule damage ; b ) acute and chronic Fe exposure would affect ROS production and biomolecule damage differently ; c ) Fe bioaccumulation would vary between species and concentrations ; and d ) environmental factors might influence coral responses to Fe . Results indicated that all species exhibited increased Fe bioaccumulation as metal concentrations increased , suggesting a common ability to absorb and accumulate Fe . The oxidative damage response vired between acute and chronic exposure , with acute exposure causing more damage while chronic exposure showed a temporal reduction in damage . Environmental factors ( e . g . temperature , pH , salinity and dissolved oxygen ) also influenced the coral responses , either exacerbating or mitigating oxidative stress effects . These findings highlight the importance of understanding Fe contamination impacts for the conservation of Brazilian coral reefs .
Repeated exposure to airborne terrestrial natural minerals may cause pneumoconiosis and lung cancer , among which iron sulfide is identified as an aggravating factor . In the biological system , iron-sulfur cluster is an inorganic cofactor that is evolutionarily conserved in all the living organisms . Whereas ferrous iron catalyzes the generation of hydroxyl radicals , sulfur is indispensable as a component of antioxidants , such as glutathione . Imbalanced redox homeostasis contributes to oxidative stress , causing ferroptosis , an iron-dependent regulated necrosis characterized by lipid peroxidation , resulting in various disorders . We undertook this study to understand the cellular regulatory mechanisms against major terrestrial minerals containing iron and sulfur from the viewpoint of cellular redox . We used fundamental iron sulfide minerals collected from natural sources to treat human macrophage and fibroblast cells and investigated the biological responses . Alterations in sulfane sulfur , glutathione and iron have been analyzed using either specific fluorescent probes or inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry . Iron sulfide microparticles with high Fe/S ratio ( pyrrhotite ; Fe ( 1-X ) S ) induced more reactive sulfane species and glutathione , with less catalytic iron inside cells , whereas the mineral with low Fe/S ratio ( pyrite ; FeS ) exhibited the opposite effects . Notably both showed cytotoxicity , where pyrite caused ferroptosis but pyrrhotite led to non-ferroptotic disruption . Furthermore , assimilated cellular excess iron was secreted via CD63 ( + ) exosome containing iron-loaded ferritin to the extracellular space with higher iron content in pyrrhotite . Our findings suggest that iron and sulfur work complementarily in maintaining intracellular redox homeostasis , which would be crucial to understand the associated pathology .
Quaternary ammonium compounds ( QACs ) combined with nonionic surfactants have been among the most effective disinfectants for over half a century , leveraging QACs ' broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity that targets microbial membranes . However , the specific interactions between QACs and microbial membranes , as well as the role of nonionic surfactants in disinfection , remain unclear . This study investigates these mechanisms using two representative surfactants : the cationic didecyldimethyl ammonium chloride ( DDAC ) and the nonionic hexaethylene glycol monododecyl ether ( CE ) . The antimicrobial activity of these agents , individually and sequentially , was assessed against Gram-negative bacteria through a series of in vitro assays , including outer membrane ( OM ) permeability , inner membrane ( IM ) depolarization , and live/dead bacterial imaging . Further insights into membrane interactions were obtained using model lipid bilayers in conjunction with antimicrobial efficacy matrices , FICI ( fractional inhibition concentration index ) , fluorescent liposome leakage , small-angle neutron scattering ( SANS ) , and neutron reflectivity ( NR ) . Results indicate that CE binds to the rough A lipopolysaccharide ( RaLPS ) head region in the OM , reassembling it into heterogeneous aggregates but with limited penetration to cause IM disruption . Conversely , DDAC induced structural disruptions in both OM and IM , resulting in low inhibitory concentrations and rapid bacterial killing . In mixtures , the CE : DDAC ratio significantly influences antimicrobial efficacy , with higher CE levels inhibiting DDAC ' s effective membrane interactions .
Chlorine is the principal microbial disinfectant used for water treatment . However , chlorine-resistant bacteria such as Mycobacterium spp . , can survive chlorine treatment and even grow in the presence of chlorine , posing potential public health risks . In this study , we isolated a Mycobacterium sp . strain from treated effluent and investigated its chlorine resistance and recovery using transcriptomic analyses . Specifically , isolate M1 , showing 58 % average nucleotide identity ( ANI ) with Mycobacterium massilipolynesiensis type genome , was exposed to 1 ppm HOCl for 30 min and subjected to RNA sequencing . Genes identified as upregulated compared to control conditions ( no HOCl ) were involved in detoxification ( toxic compound degradation ; nemA ; log fold-change [FC] : 41 ) , redox homeostasis ( COQ5 ; quinone synthesis ; log FC 70 , rosB ; riboflavin synthesis ; log FC 61 ) , protein homeostasis ( cysHKO , moeZ cysteine biosynthesis , and arg complex ; arginine metabolism ) , and lipid metabolism ( cpnA ; 95 FC ) suggesting a multifaceted adaptation to oxidative stress . Levels of a few membrane transport proteins ( czcD , and bcr ) were also upregulated , highlighting their role in chlorine exposure . Overall , this study broadens the understanding of chlorine resistance strategies employed by Mycobacterium sp . to combat oxidative stress and the resulting toxic intracellular compounds , and has implications for adjusting water treatment technologies toward eliminating mycobacteria .
Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is a fatty liver disease that is not caused by alcohol or viral infections , and its prevalence is increasing worldwide . However , the full range of proteins involved in hepatic fat accumulation and their detailed mechanisms remain unclear , and current treatments are limited to symptomatic management . Therefore , the development of novel therapeutic strategies is important . Recently , we reported that selenium binding protein 1 ( SBP1 ) is involved in lipid metabolism . However , its contribution to MASLD has not been elucidated . In the present study , we investigated the effects of SBP1 deficiency on fructose-induced MASLD in SBP1-deficient mice . SBP1 deficiency exacerbates fructose-induced weight gain and hepatic triglyceride accumulation in both males and females . However , changes in hepatic gene expression profiles induced by SBP1 deficiency and fructose intake were sex specific . Among these , stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 ( Scd1 ) expression was significantly induced by fructose only under SBP1-deficient conditions in both sexes . Given that SCD1 induction contributes to the progression of fatty liver disease , it has been suggested that SBP1 deficiency exacerbates fatty liver disease by inducing SCD The findings of this study suggest that modulating SBP1 expression may serve as a potential therapeutic strategy for treating fructose-induced fatty liver disease .
This study examined the effects of kolaviron and quercetin , individually and combined , on biochemical and histopathological changes in testosterone-induced benign prostatic hyperplasia ( BPH ) in male Wistar rats . Forty-two rats were divided into six groups , with BPH induced in all but the control group . Treatments included kolaviron , quercetin , their combination , and finasteride . BPH increased PSA , 5-alpha reductase , DHT , kidney and liver function markers , and altered lipid profiles . Treatments reduced these elevations and improved testosterone and HDL-c levels . Findings suggest that kolaviron and quercetin effectively ameliorate BPH , indicating their potential as affordable , non-invasive options for BPH management . FAU - Ujong , Ujong P
The importance of serine as a metabolic regulator is well known for tumors and is also gaining attention in degenerative diseases . Recent data indicate that de novo serine biosynthesis is an integral component of the metabolic response to mitochondrial disease , but the roles of the response have remained unknown . Here , we report that glucose-driven de novo serine biosynthesis maintains metabolic homeostasis in energetic stress . Pharmacological inhibition of the rate-limiting enzyme , phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase ( PHGDH ) , aggravated mitochondrial muscle disease , suppressed oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial translation , altered whole-cell lipid profiles , and enhanced the mitochondrial integrated stress response ( ISR ( mt ) ) in vivo in skeletal muscle and in cultured cells . Our evidence indicates that de novo serine biosynthesis is essential to maintain mitochondrial respiration , redox balance , and cellular lipid homeostasis in skeletal muscle with mitochondrial dysfunction . Our evidence implies that interventions activating de novo serine synthesis may protect against mitochondrial failure in skeletal muscle .
This study assessed the ultimate biodegradation degree of two resins , polyhydroxybutyrate and polylactic acid ( PHB and PLA ) , and three commercial biobased bags ( BMAT , BGREEN , and BBEIGE ) through the measurement of oxygen consumption in closed respirometers . Activated sludge from a wastewater treatment plant ( WWTP ) was used as the inoculum , cellulose was used as the reference material , and five trials were conducted with two different devices under identical conditions , with a 28-day incubation period . The results revealed statistically significant differences in the biochemical oxygen demand ( BOD ) measurements for cellulose , PHB , and PLA between the two devices and within the same devices across different trials . The degree of biodegradation ( D ( t ) ) , calculated as the percentage of theoretical oxygen demand ( ThOD ) , varied depending on the device and trial . For cellulose , D ( t ) ranged from 61 to 93% ; for PLA , the maximum Dt was 6% ; and for PHB , D ( t ) oscillated between 16 and 72% . These findings highlight the critical importance of carefully selecting the testing equipment , as it significantly influences biodegradation results , in addition to the already known interlaboratory variability caused by the inoculum .
Ferroptosis is an attractive therapeutic target in cardiometabolic disease ( CMD ) ; however , its contribution to myocardial damage requires further elucidation . This study was designed to examine whether altered phospholipid composition in cardiomyocytes enhanced ferroptosis susceptibility , and the underlying mechanisms . Human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes and H9c2 cells were used to study iron-induced lipid peroxidation , cell death , and inflammation after exposure to different types of fatty acids . Lipidomic analysis was performed using LC/MS to assess changes in phospholipid composition , with a focus on omega-6 PUFA-containing phospholipids . Cellular and mitochondrial lipid peroxidation , sterile inflammation , and cell death were evaluated . Additionally , the release of damage-associated molecular patterns ( DAMPs ) and macrophage responses , including STING and type I interferon ( IFN-I ) signaling , were investigated . LC/MS lipidomic analysis indicated that treating cells with arachidonic acid ( AA ) elevated omega-6 PUFA-containing phospholipids , particularly phosphatidylethanolamines ( PE ) and phosphatidylcholines ( PC ) . This significantly increased susceptibility to iron-induced total cellular as well as mitochondrial lipid peroxidation . Subsequently , increased release of mitochondrial DNA to cytosol was detected , resulting in both sterile inflammation and subsequent cell death . Furthermore , iron-induced release of one or more damage associated molecular patterns ( DAMP ) from AA-treated cells that induced crosstalk with macrophages eliciting a STING and type I interferon ( IFN-I ) response . These results indicate that cardiomyocytes enriched with omega-6 PUFA-containing phospholipids are more susceptible to lipid peroxidation , underscoring ferroptosis as a critical factor in myocardial damage associated with CMD .
Giant anteaters have limited biological knowledge and pose challenges in captivity , primarily due to their highly specialized feeding habits . This study aimed to evaluate the diet and its apparent digestibility in captive giant anteaters , seeking to understand the relationship between the offered diet and its utilization by animals under human care at institutions and zoos in the state of Sao Paulo . Seventeen adult giant anteaters ( Myrmecophaga tridactyla ) , comprising 10 females and 7 males , were used to determine the nutritional composition of their diet , collect feces for bromatological analysis , and assess diet digestibility . The chemical composition of the offered foods and feces was evaluated , and the apparent digestibility of the diet was calculated . Analysis of the diets revealed that their nutritional composition did not differ significantly among institutions , despite variations in ingredient composition . The protein and lipid contents of the diets were as follows : 6% and 4% ( diet 1 ) , 7% and 9% ( diet 2 ) , 9% and 3% ( diet 3 ) , and 2% and 7% ( diet 4 ) , respectively . Ether extract ( EE ) had the highest apparent digestibility coefficient ( ADC ) ( general mean 91 +/- 8 ) . The mean ADC was 9 , 6 , 6 , and 9 for crude protein ( CP ) ; 8 , 8 , 5 , and 2 for EE ; 8 , 64 , 1 , and 3 for nitrogen-free extract ; and 5 , 5 , 43 , and 1 for crude fiber , for diets 1 , 2 , 3 , and 4 , respectively . It is concluded that diets at Sao Paulo institutions showed good digestibility , especially for crude protein and ether extract . However , most animals had soft feces , indicating room for improvement . Energy intake affected body condition , emphasizing the need for tailored diets . Ether extract should not exceed 10% , and diets should provide 75-100% of maintenance energy , with regular monitoring of body condition scores .
Global climate change drives the range expansion of various taxa , including the mountain pine beetle ( Dendroctonus ponderosae ; MPB ) . Dispersal and host colonization dictate spread and establishment of MPB populations , but this comes with energetic , time , risk , and opportunity costs . As MPB exhibit continuous flight polyphenisms , researchers have proposed that energy use during flight may trigger responsiveness to the semiochemicals that orchestrate the colonization of host pine trees , but this effect has not been demonstrated empirically . Here , we test the hypothesis that flight exercise impacts subsequent behavioral response to semiochemicals in two olfactometer experiments that simulate 1 ) female beetle pioneer response to host volatiles and 2 ) male and female joining beetle response to host volatiles and the female-produced aggregation pheromone , trans-verbenol . We also assess antennal response of female beetles to alpha-pinene post-flight in an electroantennogram bioassay . Female MPB with low condition due to energy expenditure responded strongly to host semiochemicals post-flight . The antennal response of female MPB to the host volatile alpha-pinene increased with relative lipid content of beetles . Male behavioral response to semiochemicals was not influenced by body condition or exercise by flight . The effect of flight and body condition on orientation to semiochemical cues may influence individual dispersal patterns . These findings should be considered in the refinement of dispersal models that incorporate individual variability to predict spread of MPB in its expanded range .
Bladder cancer is a common malignant tumor of the urinary system and is associated with high morbidity , recurrence , and mortality rates . Immunotherapy with immune checkpoint inhibitors has shown great therapeutic outcomes and safety in bladder cancer . Immune checkpoint inhibitors have also been approved as first- and second-line drugs for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic bladder cancer . However , immunotherapy has a low response and drug assistance for cancer immunotherapy , which can be ascribed to insufficient antigen presentation , tumor immunosuppressive cell accumulation , and T lymphocyte exhaustion in the tumor microenvironment . To overcome the disadvantages of immunotherapy , we prepared a resiquimod ( R848 ) /photothermal agent ( DTPA ) -loaded lipid nanoparticle ( R848/DTPA@DSPE-PEG NP ) , which has shown good photothermal conversion efficiency , biosafety , and biocompatibility . R848/DTPA@DSPE-PEG NPs with laser irradiation ( 635 nm ) can damage MB49 cells and induce immunogenic cell death in vitro , which could trigger an immune response . Meanwhile , R848/DTPA@DSPE-PEG NPs can also promote M1-like macrophage polarization and dendritic cell maturation in vitro . Moreover , R848/DTPA@DSPE-PEG NPs with 635 nm laser irradiation can suppress subcutaneous and orthotopic bladder tumor growth and activate the immune response , which can promote dendritic cell maturation and M1-like macrophage polarization , enhance CD8+ T lymphocyte infiltration , and reduce M2-like macrophage polarization in tumors . Bioinformatics analysis found that R848/DTPA@DSPE-PEG NPs can also induce immune-related gene overexpression of immune signaling pathways . Combined R848/DTPA@DSPE-PEG NPs with PD-1 antibody can significantly enhance antitumor therapeutic effects , reprogram tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment , and prolong the survival time . FAU - Shang , Haojie
INTRODUCTION : Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( PCSK9 ) inhibitors , by preventing the degradation of LDL receptors , either through interference in the binding of PCSK9 to LDL receptors or through silencing of PCSK9 at a molecular level , have revolutionized lipid-lowering treatment and offer the opportunity to further improve clinical outcomes for patients with hypercholesterolemia . AREAS COVERED : We discuss the role of PCSK9 as a therapeutic target for hypercholesterolemia , describe the pharmacodynamics , pharmacokinetics , and metabolism of recaticimab , and report the recent clinical trials with this ' humanized ' IgG1 monoclonal antibody ( mAb ) against PCSK EXPERT OPINION : Recaticimab has a high affinity for PCSK9 that confers a prolonged duration of action . Recaticimab durably decreases LDL-cholesterol , non-HDL-cholesterol and apoB , but can also lower Lp ( a ) . Recaticimab may offer advantages over current mAbs in clinical use in terms of its long half-life , dosing interval of up to 12 weeks , and potentially a lower cost ; however , long-term concerns regarding immunogenicity remain . Longer-term studies in a variety of more diverse patient cohorts will be needed to further evaluate the efficacy , safety , and durability of recaticimab and to ascertain the optimal dosing schedule for cardiovascular outcome studies . FAU - Tang , Xuan L
Water stress has a profound and widespread impacts on agriculture globally , leading to slower plant growth , lower yields , and poorer quality . To meet this challenge , the application of seaweed fertilizer came into being . Seaweed fertilizer is rich in polysaccharides , proteins , lipids , plant hormones , minerals , and various other bioactive components , with great potential in water retention and nutrient provision . We systematically summarized the latest research progress on the role of seaweed fertilizers in mitigating water stress , with a focus on elucidating the mechanisms by which seaweed fertilizer enhances stress tolerance of plants . It significantly improves plant growth and yield , promotes root growth and nutrient uptake , ameliorates soil conditions , and enhances plant resis-tance to stress . Additionally , we put forward the challenges associated with the practical application of seaweed fertilizers in agriculture and the future research directions , aiming to provide alternative solutions for the sustainable goals and healthy development of global agriculture . FAU - Guo , Wen-Jing
INTRODUCTION : Acute myocardial infarction ( AMI ) is highly prevalent ( 8% in developed countries ) , affecting heterogenous populations , and can be influenced by varied factors , including demographics , clinical risk factors , and comorbidities . Identifying distinct AMI patient profiles can aid in understanding the disease and developing personalised treatment strategies . METHODS : This study analysed data from UK Biobank participants with an AMI diagnosis . Using unsupervised clustering techniques - UMAP , latent profile analysis , and K-means clustering - distinct and robust patient profiles were identified and associated with co-morbidity prevalence . Next , we trained three supervised machine learning classifiers ( Logistic Regression , Random Forest , and XGBoost ) to predict profile membership from 28 biochemistry markers . SHAP values were used for post-hoc interpretation of the best-performing model . FINDING : Four distinct patient profiles were identified : " CMR-GIRespRenal " , " AG-CMS " , " CM-MultiCardio " , and " PostMeno-CMSurgGI " . Each profile showed unique characteristics in socio- demographics , clinical risk factors ( e . g . , BMI , age , smoking , alcohol intake , waist and hip circumference ) and disease prevalence . The Random Forest classifier outperformed all others , achieving an average weighted AUROC score of 78% . SHAP analysis highlighted key biochemical markers , such as Testosterone , Creatinine , Vitamin D , Urate , and lipid profile markers , as significant predictors of AMI profiles . CONCLUSION : This study underscores the heterogeneity of AMI patients and the importance of integrating patient profiles with biochemical markers for improved stratification in diagnosis and treatment . These identified profiles can guide personalised treatment strategies , tailoring interventions to the specific needs of each group . Understanding these profiles may also lead to novel therapeutic targets . FAU - Onoja , Anthony
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) affects ~40% of adults , but causal mechanisms remain elusive . Preclinical models implicate the gut microbiota in MASLD pathogenesis , yet translation to humans is hampered by variability in microbial composition . We addressed this gap by investigating whether stable , quantitative gut phenotypes including microbiota encroachment are pathological features of MASLD . METHODS : Sigmoid colon biopsies were collected from participants with and without imaging-defined MASLD . Mucus immunostaining was paired with fluorescent in situ hybridization to image and quantify the distance separating bacteria from the colonic epithelium ( i . e . , encroachment ) . Secondary outcomes included intestinal permeability , colon histopathology , and insulin resistance . RNA-sequencing was combined with weighted gene network correlation analysis to explore correlations between colonic gene expression and clinical endpoints . RESULTS : Microbiota encroachment did not differentiate participants with MASLD ( n=13 with simple steatosis , n=13 with fibrosis stage <4 ) from controls ( n=12 ; p=20 ) . Circulating lipopolysaccharide and flagellin-specific immunoglobulins ( intestinal permeability ) , and colon histopathology were similar across cohorts ( p=23 , p=11 , and p=73 , respectively ) . Microbiota encroachment and adipose tissue insulin resistance ( Adipo-IR ) were correlated with a colonic gene network regulating insulin ( Pearson ' s r=47 , p=003 ) and lipid metabolism ( r=-31 , p=05 ) . Pathway analysis of this network revealed genes involved in hepatic steatosis ( p=35E-03 ) and fibrosis ( p=39E-02 ) , suggesting a gut-adipose-liver crosstalk . Conclusions Microbiota encroachment and related gut phenotypes do not correlate with MASLD severity . However , colonic expression of genes related to insulin signaling and lipid metabolism link microbiota encroachment to Adipo-IR and MASLD . Future research should investigate how colonic gene products interact with microbiota-focused MASLD mechanisms . FAU - Igudesman , Daria
BACKGROUND : Alopecia areata ( AA ) affects approximately 2% of the global population and causes psychological distress . All-trans retinoic acid ( ATRA ) has the potential to promote hair regeneration ; however , its clinical use is limited by skin irritation and low targeting specificity . To address these limitations , we designed an ATRA-loaded nanostructured lipid carrier gel ( ATRA-NLC-Gel ) drug delivery system to enhance the therapeutic effects of ATRA in AA . RESULTS : ATRA-NLC showed a uniform nanoparticle size distribution and excellent biocompatibility . In vitro , they enhanced the uptake ability of dermal papilla cells , increased cell viability , and promoted cell proliferation by facilitating the cell cycle process . Compared to ATRA cream , ATRA-NLC-Gel significantly reduced skin irritation , prolonged residence time on the skin , and achieved a sustained and slow release of ATRA . Treatment with ATRA-NLC-Gel enhanced transdermal penetration and targeted enrichment in the hair follicle region , thereby significantly promoting hair regrowth . ATRA-NLC-Gel improved AA symptoms by upregulating CD200 and Ki-67 expression , activating the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway . CONCLUSIONS : ATRA-NLC-Gel enhanced the transdermal permeability and follicle-targeting efficacy of ATRA , alleviated ATRA-induced skin dryness and irritation , and effectively improved the symptoms of AA in AA model mice . ATRA-NLC-Gel offers a highly promising strategy for transdermal treatment of AA in clinical setting .
BACKGROUND : Myopia presents a noteworthy global health concern , urging exploration of innovative treatments . The role of intraocular pressure ( IOP ) in regulating the progression of myopia has been controversial . METHODS : To investigate the impact of reducing IOP to varying extents on myopia progression , three groups receiving distinct IOP-lowering medications ( Brinzolamide , Latanoprost , and a combination of Brinzolamide and Latanoprost ) were designed in a form-deprived myopic guinea pig model . Additionally , proteomics analyses were conducted to identify differentially expressed proteins in the sclera . RESULTS : Based on 24-h and 4-week IOP monitoring , the group receiving both Brinzolamide and Latanoprost exhibited the greatest magnitude of IOP reduction and the most significant inhibition of axial length ( AL ) growth . Moreover , the administration of IOP-lowering medications increased choroidal thickness and induced alterations in the structure of scleral collagen fibrils . Notably , scleral proteomics revealed remodeling processes associated with key mechanisms , including proteolysis , fibrinolysis , and metal ion binding . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings highlight that pressure-dependent scleral remodeling contributes to the deceleration of AL elongation . These results underscore the efficacy of IOP reduction in mitigating the progression of myopia , providing a promising alternative strategy for myopia management .
In respiratory airway epithelial cells , lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) treatment induced an enhancement of connexin 26 ( Cx26 ) hemichannel activity shown by dye uptake experiments after siRNA-mediated knock-down of Cx This effect was already observed at infection relevant concentrations ( </= 10 ng/mL LPS ) and involved tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF-alpha ) - and Ca ( 2+ ) -dependent signaling . High concentrations ( 1 microg/mL LPS ) reduced the transepithelial electrical resistance ( TEER ) of Calu-3 cells by 35% within an application time of 3 h followed by a recovery . Parallel to barrier alteration , a reduced tight junction organization rate ( TiJOR ) of claudin-4 ( CLDN4 ) by 75% was observed within an application time of 3 h . After TEER recovery , CLDN4 TiJOR stayed reduced . Low concentrations ( 10 ng/mL LPS ) required three times repeated application for barrier reduction and CLDN4 TiJOR reduction by 30% . The small molecule CVB4-57 , newly published as a potential inhibitor of Cx26 hemichannels , mitigated the effects of LPS on the epithelial barrier function . Molecular docking studies revealed a potential interaction between CVB4-57 and Cx26 thereby reducing its hemichannel activity . We conclude that LPS-related enhancement of Cx26 hemichannel activity acts like a " molecular scar " that weakens the lung epithelium , which could be attenuated by agents targeting Cx26 hemichannels .
Esophageal cancer ( EC ) represents a highly recurrent and aggressive malignancy within the digestive system . However , conventional therapeutic strategies exhibit notable limitations in their clinical applications . Photothermal therapy ( PTT ) , combined with ferroptosis , has attracted considerable attentions , emerging as a promising novel strategy for EC treatment . Therefore , there is a critical need to develop a drug delivery system capable of effectively integrating these two therapeutic approaches . In this work , we report a novel drug delivery system based on ferrocene ( Fc ) , which is mixed with lauric acid ( a phase-change material with a melting point around 44 ( o ) C ) and then coated on the surface of Cu ( 2 - x ) Se nanoparticles . The photothermal properties of Cu ( 2 - x ) Se triggers the melting of lauric acid under near-infrared ( NIR ) laser irradiation , facilitating controlled release of Fc . Following internalization by tumor cells via endocytosis , the synergistic effect of PTT and ferroptosis , triggered by Cu ( 2 - x ) Se@Fc , induced immunogenic cell death , which promoted dendritic cell maturation and cytotoxic T lymphocytes recruitment while decreasing the proportion of regulatory T cells , thereby strengthening the antitumor immune surveillance and improving the therapeutic efficacy of Anti-PD-1 blockade . These findings propose that the NIR-responsive Cu ( 2 - x ) Se@Fc formulation represents a promising and effective strategy with prospecting application for cancer treatment .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the metabolic remodeling and functional specialization of immune cells within the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) of bone tumors , including Ewing ' s sarcoma , osteosarcoma , and giant cell tumor of bone , through high-resolution single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) analysis . METHODS : Immune cells were isolated from 13 bone tumor samples and profiled via scRNA-seq to delineate cellular compositions , metabolic adaptations , and intercellular communication networks . Differential gene expression analysis , metabolic pathway enrichment , and pseudotime trajectory inference were employed to characterize functional states and differentiation processes of immune cell subsets . RESULTS : We identified 12 major immune cell clusters with distinct functional and metabolic characteristics . Naive T cells exhibited amino acid metabolism-dependent activation potential , whereas NK cells relied on lipid metabolism and the TCA cycle for cytotoxic activity . Macrophage subsets demonstrated functional divergence : C06 macrophages adopted lipid metabolism to facilitate immunosuppression and tissue repair , while C04 macrophages displayed pro-inflammatory characteristics associated with complement activation . Intercellular signaling analysis revealed FN1 as a central regulator of immune coordination , governing cell adhesion , migration , and homeostasis within the TME . CONCLUSION : This study provides novel insights into the metabolic and functional plasticity of immune cells in bone tumor TMEs , underscoring the critical role of metabolic remodeling in immune regulation . Our findings highlight potential therapeutic targets for modulating immune cell function and offering new avenues to improve treatment outcomes for patients with bone tumors .
BACKGROUND : Infantile pneumonia is a common infectious disease affecting infants and young children , which can lead to severe complications such as heart failure , significantly increasing morbidity and mortality rates among affected populations . Curcumin ( CUR ) , a prominent natural polyphenol found in turmeric and other species of Curcuma , exhibits anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and anticancer properties . Consequently , CUR has been hoped to be a therapeutic or preventive agent for several main human diseases . This study aims to explore the effects of CUR on lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -treated Wistsar Institute ( WI ) -38 cells . METHODS : The cell vitality , proliferation , and apoptosis were assessed by cell counting kit-8 ( CCK8 ) assay , 5-ethynyl-2 ' -deoxyuridine ( EdU ) , and flow cytometry assays . Inflammation and oxidative stress were examined by measuring interleukins ( IL ) -6 , IL-1beta , tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , and superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) levels using the corresponding enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) test kits . The network pharmacology and molecule docking were carried out to predict the critical targets and potential therapeutic mechanisms of CUR in infantile pneumonia . The key target genes were predicted using PPI in the CUR protected-infantile pneumonia effect . Gene Ontology ( GO ) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) analysis were employed to exhibit the biological function . The results of prediction were confirmed in vitro experiments . RESULTS : LPS inhibited the vitality , proliferation , and SOD levels of WI-38 cells and facilitated the cell apoptosis , IL-6 , IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and MDA levels . CUR abolished LPS-induced regulation WI-38 cell biological functions . Besides , the 16 hub genes from potential target genes of CUR and infantile pneumonia were screened . Moreover , six hub genes ( enhanced green fluorescent protein ( EGFP ) , v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 ( AKT1 ) , prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase ( PTGS2 ) , signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( STAT3 ) , matrix metalloproteinase 9 ( MMP9 ) , and tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) ) in the CUR-protected-infantile pneumonia effect were identified by PPI analysis . The therapeutic effects of CUR on infantile pneumonia might relate to anti-viral and anti-inflammatory effects predicted by GO and KEGG enrichment analysis . Interestingly , CUR repressed LPS-stimulated facilitation of PTGS2 expression . The molecular docking demonstrated that PTGS2 could directly bind to CUR . The PTGS2 levels were inhibited by CUR treatment and negatively related to the time after WI-38 cells were treated with cycloheximide ( CHX ) . PTGS2 knockdown could promote LPS-induced injury in WI-38 cells . CUR expedited cell vitality and proliferation and suppressed cell apoptosis , inflammation , and oxidative stress in LPS-induced WI-38 cells via down-regulating PTGS CONCLUSION : CUR attenuates LPS-induced WI-38 cell injury by downregulating PTGS CUR may be the potential drug for alleviating LPS-induced WI-38 cell inflammation damage via regulating PTGS2 expression .
BACKGROUND : Symbiotic microbiota in vertebrates play critical roles in establishing and enhancing host resistance to pathogenic infections as well as maintaining host homeostasis . The interactions and mechanisms of commensal microbiota-mediated mucosal immune systems have been extensively studied in mammals and , to a lesser extent , in birds . However , despite several studies emphasizing the role of mucosal microbiota in controlling pathogen infections in teleost fish , limited knowledge exists regarding the core microbiota and the mechanisms by which they contribute to resistance against viral infections . RESULTS : Our findings suggest that viral infections shape clinical manifestations of varying severity in infected fish . An increased abundance of Bacillus spp . in the mild phenotype indicates its crucial role in influencing fish immunity during viral infections . To confirm that Bacillus spp . act as a core contributor against viral infection in fish , we isolated a representative strain of Bacillus spp . from largemouth bass ( Micropterus salmoides ) , which was identified as Bacillus velezensis ( Bv ) , and subsequently conducted feeding trials . Our study demonstrated that dietary supplementation with Bv significantly reduced mortality from largemouth bass virus ( LMBV ) infection in bass by enhancing host immunity and metabolism as well as by regulating the microbial community . Furthermore , multi-omics analysis elucidated the mechanism by which Bacillus spp . confer resistance to viral infections by regulating the production of diglyceride ( DG ) during lipid metabolism . CONCLUSIONS : Our study provides the first evidence that Bacillus spp . are a core microbiota for combating viral infections in teleost fish , shedding light on the conserved functions of probiotics as a core microbiota in regulating microbial homeostasis and mucosal immunity across the vertebrate lineage .
BACKGROUND : The transition from metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) to steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is characterized by a chronic low-grade inflammation , involving activation of resident macrophages ( Kupffer cells ; KC ) and recruitment of infiltrating macrophages . Macrophages produce cytokines and , after induction of Cyclooxygenase 2 ( COX-2 ) , the key enzyme of prostanoid synthesis , prostaglandin E ( PGE ) . PGE modulates cytokine production in an autocrine and paracrine manner , therefore playing a pivotal role in regulating inflammatory processes . Changes in the hepatic macrophage pool during MASLD progression to MASH could influence PGE- and cytokine-mediated signaling processes . The aim of this study was to characterize these changes in mice with diet-induced MASH and further elucidate the role of COX-2-dependently formed PGE on the inflammatory response in different macrophage populations of mice with a macrophage-specific COX-2-deletion . METHODS : Male , 6-7-week-old wildtype mice were fed either a Standard or high-fat , high-cholesterol MASH-inducing diet for 4 , 12 and 20 weeks . Liver macrophages were isolated and analyzed by flow cytometry . For in vitro experiments primary KC , peritoneal macrophages ( PM ) and Bone-marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDM ) were isolated from macrophage-specific COX-2-deficient and wildtype mice and treated with lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) and/or PGE . RESULTS : During MASH-development , the proportion of KC ( Clec4F ( + ) Tim4 ( + ) ) decreased , while the proportion of monocyte-derived macrophages ( Clec4F ( - ) Tim4 ( - ) ) and monocyte-derived cells exhibiting a phenotype similar to KC ( Clec4F ( + ) Tim4 ( - ) ) significantly increased over time . In vitro experiments showed that exogenous PGE completely abrogated the LPS-induced mRNA expression and secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) in primary KC , PM and BMDM from wildtype mice . PM and BMDM , as in vitro models for infiltrating macrophages , were more sensitive to PGE compared to KC . Deletion of COX-2 in all macrophage populations led to an impaired PGE-dependent feedback inhibition of TNF-alpha production . LPSinduced TNF-alpha mRNA expression was higher compared to the respective wildtype macrophage population . CONCLUSION : The current study , using a murine MASH model , indicates that PGE may have a protective , anti-inflammatory effect , especially by inhibiting the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNFalpha in infiltrating monocyte-derived macrophages . An inhibition of endogenous PGE synthesis in macrophages by pharmacological inhibition of COX-2 could potentially increase inflammation and promote the progression of MASH .
Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are membrane-bound structures released by all cell types . They play a critical role in intercellular communication by transferring their cargo , comprising proteins , lipids , metabolites , RNAs , miRNAs , and DNA fragments , to recipient cells . This transfer influences gene expression , signaling pathways , and cellular behavior . Due to their ability to alter the physiology of recipient cells , EVs hold significant therapeutic potential . Additionally , EVs are implicated in various physiological and pathological processes , including immune regulation , cancer progression , and cardiovascular diseases . EVs have been detected in many biological fluids , such as peripheral blood , saliva , urine , cerebrospinal fluid , and breast milk . The cargo of EVs dynamically reflects the physiological and pathological state of their parent cells , making them promising candidates for liquid biopsies in various clinical conditions . Specifically , different EV subtypes in cardiovascular diseases have been studied , with both endothelial and platelet-derived EVs playing significant roles in cardiovascular pathologies . This review focuses on the diagnostic and prognostic potential of endothelial and platelet-derived EVs in cardiovascular diseases , highlighting the role of EV subpopulations .
OBJECTIVE : We aimed to investigate the expression of lncRNA Kcnq1ot1 in T2DM patients with OA , as well as its correlation with serum inflammatory factors and clinical outcomes of the patients . METHODS : This prospective observational cohort study included a total of 50 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) , 50 patients with osteoarthritis ( OA ) , and 51 patients with both T2DM and OA between March 2020 and March The serum TNF-alpha , interleukin ( IL ) -6 , IL-1beta and C-reactive protein ( CRP ) levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) . To determine the expression of LncRNA Kcnq1ot1 , RT-qPCR was used . Demographic , clinical statistics , lipid metabolism and nutritional indicators were collected . All data used SPSS 0 to statistical analyses . RESULTS : The T2DM + OA group had significantly higher BMI and LDLC levels compared to the T2DM group ( p < 05 ) . The serum levels of LncRNA Kcnq1ot1 were significantly higher in the T2DM + OA group compared to the OA group and T2DM group ( p < 05 ) . Pearson ' s analysis supported a positive correlation between LncRNA Kcnq1ot1 and IL-6 and IL-1beta levels . In addition , LncRNA Kcnq1ot1 could be a potential biomarker for diagnosing the occurrence of T2DM patients with OA . Moreover , LncRNA Kcnq1ot1 , BMI , IL-6 , Low density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDLC ) were the risk factors for T2DM patients with OA . CONCLUSION : This study showed that the serum LncRNA Kcnq1ot1 levels was remarkably elevated in T2DM patients with OA . This study might provide new targets and a comprehensive approach to treatment in T2DM patients with OA .
BACKGROUND : Sclareol , a diterpene alcohol derived from Salvia sclarea , is primarily used in the synthesis of ambrox , an alternative to the expensive spice ambergris . However , commercial production of sclareol from plant extraction is costly and environmentally problematic , limiting its scalability . Recent advances in synthetic biology have enabled the construction of efficient cell factories for sclareol synthesis , offering a more sustainable solution . RESULTS : In this study , we engineered Yarrowia lipolytica to produce sclareol by integrating genes encoding ( 13E ) -8alpha-hydroxylabden-15-yl diphosphate synthase ( LPPS ) and sclareol synthase ( SCS ) . Sclareol titers were further enhanced through the fusion of SsSCS and SsLPPS proteins , as well as multi-copy gene integration . To increase the precursor geranylgeranyl diphosphate ( GGPP ) , we overexpressed various geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthases ( GGS1 ) , resulting in significant accumulation of GGPP . Additionally , optimization of the mevalonate pathway , coupled with the downregulation of lipid synthesis and upregulation of lipid degradation , directed more acetyl CoA towards sclareol production . CONCLUSIONS : In this study , we reprogrammed the metabolism of Y . lipolytica by combinatorial metabolic engineering with a sclareol titer of 20 +/- 30 mg/L in shake flasks . Our findings provide a viable strategy for utilizing Y . lipolytica as a microbial cell factory to produce sclareol .
BACKGROUND : Endometriosis as a chronic gynecological condition impairs the quality of life of affected women because it usually accompanied by painful clinical symptoms such as persistent severe acyclic pelvic pain , dyspareunia , and dyschezia . The aim of the present study was to examine the effects of MCT-modified ketogenic diet as an adjunct to standard treatment regimen in women with endometriosis . METHODS : This is a 12-weeks randomized controlled clinical trial that was conducted on 50 patients with endometriosis who referred to Yas hospital complex infertility clinic , Tehran , Iran . Participants were randomly allocated to intervention group receiving MCT-modified ketogenic diet plus standard treatment regimen ( n = 25 ) and control group receiving standard treatment regimen ( n = 25 ) . Clinical symptoms , anthropometric parameters , lipid profile , and serum aminotransferases were measured at the beginning and end of the study . Statistical analysis was done by SPSS version 27 software and P-value < 05 was regarded significant . RESULTS : Finally , 44 patients including 19 subjects in the intervention group and 25 subjects in the control group completed the study . Dyspareunia and dyschezia significantly reduced in the MCT-modified ketogenic diet group compared to the control group at the end of the study ( P = 02 and P = 001 , respectively ) . Also , there was a marginally significant reduction in the final values of pelvic pain ( P = 07 ) . However , no significant differences in the final value of anthropometric indices including weight , BMI , and WC , serum levels of TG , TC , HDL-C , LDL-C , and aminotransferases including ALT and AST was detected . CONCLUSIONS : MCT-modified ketogenic diet as an adjunct to standard treatment regimen could alleviate clinical symptoms including pelvic pain , dyspareunia , and dyschezia in women with endometriosis . TRIAL REGISTRATION : Iranian Registry of Clinical Trials IRCT20131125015536N Registered on 24 July https : //www . irct . ir/trial/78113 .
BACKGROUND : Although most of the management of type 2 diabetes ( T2DM ) occurs in primary care , and physicians are tasked with using a ' whole person ' approach , there is currently a lack of research on psychosocial diagnostic indicators for detecting metabolic abnormalities in T2DM patients . This study examined relations between SRH and metabolic abnormalities in patients with type 2 diabetes , adjusting for metabolic comorbidity . METHOD : A total of 583 adults with type 2 diabetes were identified from the 2019 HSE ( Health Survey for England ) . Data on metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) was extracted , including lipids ( high density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) ) , glycated haemoglobin ( HbA1c ) , blood pressure ( systolic/diastolic ) , and anthropometric measures ( BMI , waist/hip ratio ) . Bootstrapped hierarchical regression and structural equation modelling ( SEM ) were used to analyse the data . RESULTS : Adjusting for metabolic covariates attenuated significant associations between SRH and metabolic abnormalities ( HDL-C , HbA1c ) , regardless of MetS status . Analysis by gender uncovered covariate-adjusted associations between SRH and both HDL-C ( in men ) and HbA1c ( in women ) ( p ' s = 01 ) , albeit these associations were no longer significant when evaluated against a Bonferroni-adjusted alpha value ( p > 004 ) . Sensitivity analysis indicated most findings were unaffected by the type of algorithm used to manage missing data . SEM revealed no indirect associations between SRH , metabolic abnormalities , and lifestyle factors . CONCLUSIONS : While poor SRH can help primary care physicians identify T2DM patients with metabolic dysfunction , it may not offer added diagnostic usefulness over clinical biomarkers .
BACKGROUND : The cultivated peanut , Arachis hypogaea L . , is a critical oil and food crop worldwide . Improving seed oil quality in peanut has long been an aim of breeders . However , our knowledge of the genetic basis of selecting for seed nutritional traits is limited . Based on AhFAD2A and AhFAD2B , scientists have now developed higher oleic acid ( 80-84% ) in peanut . Decoding the genetic makeup behind natural variation in kernel oil and fatty acid concentrations is crucial for molecular breeding-based nutrient quantity and quality manipulation . RESULTS : Herein , we recognized 87 quantitative trait loci ( QTLs ) in 45 genomic regions for the concentrations of oil , oleic acid , and linoleic acid , as well as the oleic acid to linoleic acid ( O/L ) ratio via a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) involving 499 peanut accessions . Eight QTLs explained more than 15% of the phenotypic variation in peanut accessions . Among the 45 potential genes significantly related to the four traits , only three genes displayed annotation to the fatty acid pathway . Furthermore , on the basis of pleiotropism or linkage data belonging to the identified singular QTLs , we generated a trait-locus axis to better elucidate the genetic background behind the observed oil and fatty acid concentration association . Expression analysis indicated that arahy . AV6GAN and arahy . NNA8KD have higher expressions in the seeds . CONCLUSION : This natural population consisting of 499 peanut accessions combined with high-density SNPs will provide a better choice for identifying peanut QTLs/genes in the future . Together , our results provide strong evidence for the genetic mechanism behind oil biosynthesis in peanut , facilitating future advances in multiple fatty acid component generation via pyramiding of desirable QTLs .
Adipose tissue thermogenesis has emerged as a prominent research focus for the treatment of metabolic diseases , particularly through mitochondrial uncoupling , which oxidizes nutrients to produce heat rather than synthesizing ATP . Uncoupling protein 1 ( UCP1 ) has garnered significant attention as a core protein mediating non-shivering thermogenesis ( NST ) . However , recent studies indicate that energy dissipation can also occur via UCP1-independent thermogenesis , partially driven by futile metabolic cycles . These cycles involve ATP depletion coupled with reversible energy reactions , resulting in futile energy expenditure . Unlike classical UCP1-mediated thermogenesis , futile cycling is not confined to brown and beige adipose tissue , suggesting a broader range of therapeutic targets . These findings open new avenues for targeting these pathways to enhance metabolic health . This review explores the characteristics and distinctions of the primary metabolic organs ( adipose tissue , liver , and skeletal muscle ) involved in the futile cycles of thermogenesis . It further elaborates on the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying calcium , creatine , and lipid cycling , emphasizing their strengths , limitations , and roles beyond thermogenesis .
Ocular drug delivery is hindered by anatomical and physiological barriers that limit drug bioavailability . Among emerging solutions , mixed micelle systems offer promising potential for enhancing the efficacy of ocular formulations . This study investigates the development and evaluation of a novel cyclosporine A ( CsA ) micellar eye drop formulation using octylphenol polyethylene glycol ether 40 ( OP-40 ) , a surfactant with favorable ocular delivery properties , and polyoxyethylene hydrogenated castor oil 40 ( RH-40 ) , a non-ionic surfactant that can enhance the dispersion and stability of the system . OP-40 was optimized through a purification process , and a hybrid micelle system was developed by screening excipients and refining the formulation process . The critical micelle concentration ( CMC ) , crystalline form of CsA , interactions between surfactants and excipients , and the influence of excipients on buffer capacity were systematically examined . The resulting eye drops demonstrated favorable physicochemical characteristics , including pH , osmolality , and stability under both accelerated conditions and long-term storage at room temperature . Furthermore , the formulation exhibited no ocular irritation in rabbit models , confirming its safety . In conclusion , OP-40-based CsA mixed micelle eye drops provide a promising strategy to overcome ocular drug delivery challenges , with significant potential to enhance bioavailability and therapeutic efficacy in ophthalmic applications .
Chronic wounds , particularly those associated with diabetes , pose a significant challenge in medical care due to their persistent non-healing nature ; it is estimated that by 2030 , nearly 550 million individuals will be diagnosed with diabetes in the world . This study presents the design and fabrication of a nano-engineered hybridized polymeric framework aimed at enhancing chronic wound management . The designed scaffold is composed of a Polyvinylidene fluoride ( PVDF ) nanofibrous mat , a Collagen/Polyvinyl Alcohol ( PVA ) composite loaded with metformin hydrochloride , and polyhydroxybutyrate ( PHB ) embedded with aceclofenac . The physico-chemical and biochemical characterization of the hybrid scaffold indicated potential efficacy . Electron microscopic studies indicated the porous structure of hybrid polymeric framework ( HPF ) scaffold which aided significant drug release ( metformin and aceclofenac ) of 2% and 9% respectively in 24 h . The hybrid polymeric framework showed swelling of 150-200% to enable drug release along with the efficient exudate absorption that forms the prerequisite for chronic wounds . The HPF scaffold had displayed 5% cell viability , 7% hemocompatibility , 9% in-vitro wound contraction and an improved anti-oxidant activity , that supports the tissue repair in chronic wounds . Thus , the developed hybrid scaffold highlights its potential as an advanced holistic solution for chronic wound management .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : Breast cancer ( BC ) is the primary cause of cancer-related deaths among women worldwide , with increasing evidence pointing to the effect of metabolic factors , particularly lipid levels , in its pathogenesis . In this research , Mendelian randomization ( MR ) was employed to explore the causality between four plasma lipid traits-total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) -and the risk of BC . Additionally , we explored the potential mediating effects of coronary artery disease ( CAD ) , total testosterone ( TT ) on these associations and possible mechanisms through bioinformatics analyses . METHODS : Data of genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) on lipids , CAD , TT and BC were obtained from public sources and websites as part of a genome-wide association research . The inference of causality was primarily assessed through the inverse variance weighting ( IVW ) approach , with supplementary tests for horizontal pleiotropy and heterogeneity . To verify the directionality of causal relationships , the MR Steiger test was applied . Additionally , reverse causality was evaluated by regarding BC as the exposure . To adjust for confounders , multivariate MR ( MVMR ) was performed , followed by a two-step mediation analysis to investigate the mediating roles of CAD in the lipid-BC association , and of TT in the CAD-BC relationship . The intersecting SNP ( rs11556924 ) between causal pathways was established through a Venn diagram and its associated gene ( Zinc Finger C3HC-Type Containing 1 , ZC3HC1 ) was identified through the g : Profiler database . The expression of ZC3HC1 was further explored using the TIMER , GEPIA2 and HPA database . Finally , enrichment analyses of Gene Ontology ( GO ) , Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) and protein-protein interactions ( PPI ) network analysis were conducted on ZC3HC1 and its related genes . RESULTS : The random-effects IVW analysis yielded the following results : HDL-C on CAD ( OR = 843 , 95% CI 771-921 , P < 001 ) , CAD on BC ( OR = 935 , 95% CI 892-980 , P = 005 ) , HDL-C on BC ( OR = 127 , 95% CI 059-199 , P < 001 ) , CAD on TT ( OR = 987 , 95% CI 975-998 , P = 020 ) and TT on BC ( OR = 354 , 95% CI 148-598 , P < 001 ) . The MR Steiger test results support the validity of the inferred causal direction ( P < 001 ) . There were no discernible causal relationships between BC and HDL-C/CAD according to reverse MR analysis ( P > 05 ) . Following MVMR adjustment , the causal effects of HDL-C , CAD , and TT on BC were still statistically significant ( P < 05 ) . Besides , the two-step mediation analysis indicated that CAD mediated 8% of the causal effect of HDL-C on BC , whereas TT mediated 1% of the causal effect between CAD and BC . The expression of ZC3HC1 showed no significant expression difference between normal and BC tissues ( P > 05 ) , which might indicate a carcinogenic effect independent of expression levels but driven by functional alterations induced by variants ( C > T ) . Functional network analysis suggested that ZC3HC1 was associated with multiple signal pathways in cancers , such as PI3K-Akt and MAPK signal pathways . CONCLUSIONS : From a genetic perspective , our study reveals that there is causality between HDL-C levels and BC risk , with CAD and TT acting as partial mediators in this relationship . Moreover , our study firstly establishes a potential link between CAD-associated SNP ( rs11556924 ) , the corresponding gene ( ZC3HC1 ) functional dysregulation , and the initiation of BC . These findings shed light on the biological links between lipids and BC , potentially contributing to future prevention and treatment strategies .
Epigallocatechin gallate ( EGCG ) , a bioactive polyphenol derived from Camellia sinensis , exhibits multimodal anticancer activity through mechanisms such as apoptosis induction , metastasis suppression , and chemoresistance reversal . Despite its therapeutic promise , clinical application is constrained by rapid metabolism , poor bioavailability , and inconsistent biodistribution . Recent advances in nanotechnology have enabled the development of innovative delivery systems including pH-responsive nanoparticles , lipid-polymer hybrids , and ligand-functionalized carriers that enhance EGCG stability , tumor targeting , and bioavailability by 3- to fivefold in preclinical models . These platforms also facilitate synergistic co-delivery with chemotherapeutics like doxorubicin , amplifying cytotoxicity and overcoming multidrug resistance . Mechanistically , EGCG modulates oncogenic pathways via NF-kappaB suppression , caspase activation , and MMP-9 downregulation , demonstrating efficacy across diverse cancer types . However , translational challenges persist , such as nanoparticle toxicity , variable tumor accumulation , and insufficient penetration in hypoxic microenvironments . Regulatory hurdles , including the lack of harmonized global standards for herbal medicinal products , further complicate clinical adoption . To bridge these gaps , future research must prioritize scalable cGMP-compliant manufacturing , rigorous preclinical toxicity profiling , and robust clinical trials to validate safety and efficacy . Addressing these issues could position nanoengineered EGCG as a paradigm-shifting therapy in precision oncology , aligning with ESCOP ' s mission to integrate evidence-based phytomedicines into conventional cancer care . This review underscores the necessity of interdisciplinary collaboration to standardize phytopreparations , refine regulatory frameworks , and advance biomarker-driven clinical validation , ultimately unlocking the full potential of EGCG in modern therapeutics .
Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is an age-related neurodegenerative disease characterized by memory decline and cognitive impairment . AD is common in people aged > 65 years , though most of AD cases are sporadic , which accounts for 95% , and 1-5% of AD is caused by familial causes . The causes of AD are aging , environmental toxins , and cardiometabolic factors that induce the degeneration of cholinergic neurons . It has been shown that the metabolic syndrome which is a clustering of dissimilar constituents including insulin resistance ( IR ) , glucose intolerance , visceral obesity , hypertension , and dyslipidemia is implicated in the pathogenesis of AD . Metabolic syndrome disapprovingly affects cognitive function and the development in AD by inducing the development of oxidative stress , neuroinflammation , and brain IR . These changes , together with brain IR , impair cerebrovascular reactivity causing cognitive impairment and dementia . Nevertheless , the fundamental mechanism by which metabolic syndrome persuades AD risk is not entirely explicated . Accordingly , this review aims to discuss the connotation between metabolic syndrome and AD . In conclusion , metabolic syndrome is regarded as a possible risk factor for the initiation of AD neuropathology by diverse signaling pathways such as brain IR , activation of inflammatory signaling pathways , neuroinflammation , defective proteostasis , and dysregulation of lipid mediators .
Improved prediction of drug-induced structural cardiotoxicity is required to reduce attrition driven by cardiac safety concerns in drug discovery . Omics measurements are well suited to this need , offering the potential to discover molecular signatures associated with toxicological endpoints . In addition , untargeted metabolomics can simultaneously measure xenobiotic fate within the test system . We present an extensive metabolomics study to discover a predictive metabolic signature of drug-induced structural cardiotoxicity . A human-relevant in vitro cardiac model , cardiac microtissues , were exposed to twelve xenobiotics ( eight clinically labelled structural cardiotoxins and four non-cardiotoxic pharmaceuticals ) , each at two concentrations , for 6 , 24 , and 48 h . The measurements were made by direct-infusion and liquid-chromatography mass spectrometry from intracellular polar and lipid extracts , and spent culture medium , respectively . Data were used to quantify levels , and reveal the metabolic fate of the xenobiotics , and to simultaneously explore their effects on the cardiac microtissues . Xenobiotic quantification revealed free concentrations to be typically lower than nominal values , whilst discovery of xenobiotic-related features evidenced the biotransformation capacity of the microtissues . Both common and condition-specific effects of the xenobiotics on the intracellular metabolome , lipidome , and metabolic footprint were discovered . Moreover , metabolic signatures with capacity to predict structural cardiotoxicity were revealed . These included features representing several ceramides , energy metabolism intermediates , e . g . creatine , purine-related metabolites , and markers of oxidative stress , e . g . glutathione .
Triclosan ( TCS ) , a widely used antimicrobial , has emerged as a concerning aquatic pollutant , especially post-COVID-19 due to increased disinfectant use . The study aimed to investigate the toxic impacts of TCS on Labeo rohita , revealing a 96-h LC of 742 mg/L . Well-acclimatized fish were categorised into three groups : one control and two treatment ( T1 and T2 ) that were exposed to 1/10th and 1/5th of 96-h LC i . e . , 0742 mg/L and 148 mg/L , respectively for 6 weeks under semi-static condition . Significantly ( p < 05 ) elevated extents of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in the liver indicated enhanced oxidative stress . The activities of enzymatic antioxidants viz . superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) and catalase ( CAT ) were significantly ( p < 05 ) increased while the reduced glutathione ( GSH ) levels were significantly ( p < 05 ) decreased in a dose- and duration-dependent manner . A significant ( p < 05 ) increase was observed in the lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) rate , which coincided with disruptions in the histological structure of the liver . Significant ( p < 05 ) induction in Micronuclei frequency validated genomic instability . Furthermore , Endoplasmic Reticulum ( ER ) stress was marked by the increased intracellular calcium levels and elevated expression of grp78 , chop , atf4 , perk , eIF2alpha and gadd34 in TCS-exposed groups . Moreover , the consequent activation of bax , caspase-3 , caspase-9 , apaf-1 and the regulation of bcl-2 due to ER-stress , ultimately resulted in apoptosis of hepatocytes . Pearson correlation matrix and Principal Component Analysis ( PCA ) further underscored key interactions among parameters . Our findings demonstrate that the TCS , at its sub-lethal concentrations , is causing severe anomalies and even cell-death via triggering ER-stress-mediated apoptotic pathway in the fish liver .
Chimeric antigen receptor ( CAR ) T cell immunotherapy relies on CAR targeting of tumor-associated antigens ; however , heterogenous antigen expression , interpatient variation and off-tumor expression by healthy cells remain barriers . Here we develop synthetic antigens to sensitize solid tumors for recognition and elimination by CAR T cells . Unlike tumor-associated antigens , we design synthetic antigens that are orthogonal to endogenous proteins to eliminate off-tumor targeting and that have a small genetic footprint to facilitate efficient tumor delivery to tumors by lipid nanoparticles . Using a camelid single-domain antibody ( VHH ) as a synthetic antigen , we show that adoptive transfer of anti-VHH CAR T cells to female mice bearing VHH-expressing tumors reduced tumor burden in multiple syngeneic and xenograft models of cancer , improved survival , induced epitope spread , protected against tumor rechallenge and mitigated antigen escape in heterogenous tumors . Our work supports the in situ delivery of synthetic antigens to treat antigen-low or antigen-negative tumors with CAR T cells .
Osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis are debilitating joint diseases marked by pain , inflammation and cartilage destruction . Current osteoarthritis treatments only relieve symptoms , while rheumatoid arthritis therapies can cause immune suppression and provide variable efficacy . Here we developed an optimized small interfering RNA targeting matrix metalloproteinase 13 for preferential delivery to arthritic joints . Chemical modifications in a stabilizing ' zipper ' pattern improved RNA resistance to degradation , and two independent linkers with 18 ethylene glycol repeats connecting to tandem C18 lipids enhanced albumin binding and targeted delivery to inflamed joints following intravenous administration . In preclinical models of post-traumatic osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis , a single intravenous injection of the albumin-binding small interfering RNA achieved long-term joint retention , sustained gene silencing and reduced matrix metalloproteinase 13 activity over 30 days , resulting in decreased cartilage erosion and improved clinical outcomes , including reduced joint swelling and pressure sensitivity . This approach demonstrated superior efficacy over corticosteroids and small-molecule MMP inhibitors , highlighting the therapeutic promise of albumin ' hitchhiking ' for targeted , systemic delivery of gene-silencing therapeutics to treat osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis .
Natural organic sulfides are predominantly found in cruciferous and liliaceous plants . Among these compounds , alliin-an organic sulfide derived from garlic-has garnered significant attention from researchers due to its potential anti-atherosclerotic properties . However , studies specifically investigating the anti-atherosclerotic effects of alliin remain limited . This study aims to elucidate the protective effects of alliin on ox-LDL-injured human umbilical vein endothelial cells ( HUVECs ) and their underlying mechanisms . Initially , HUVECs were exposed to 80 mg/L oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL ) for 24 h to establish an ox-LDL injury model . Subsequently , the Cell Counting Kit-8 ( CCK8 ) assay was utilized to assess the effect of alliin on the proliferation of ox-LDL-injured cells at 12 , 24 and 48 h , and the levels of total cholesterol ( TC ) and free cholesterol ( Fch ) in the HUVECs were measured according to the instructions of TC and Fch kits . Next , quantitative proteomics was then adopted to analyze the differential protein expression in cell samples from the control group ( Con ) , the ox-LDL injury model group ( Mod ) , and the alliin treatment group ( Alliin ) . Among the quantified proteins , a statistical t-test with P < 05 was used as a threshold for significance regarding a 5-fold change in differential expression . Finally , functional enrichment analysis of the differential proteins in the Alliin/Mod group was performed using Gene Ontology ( GO ) enrichment and KEGG pathway analysis . Additionally , Western blotting was used to validate the findings . The proteomic analysis identified 6173 identified proteins , of which 5162 were quantifiable . Differential protein analysis revealed that in the Alliin/Con comparison , there were a total of 108 up-regulated proteins and 116 down-regulated proteins ; in the Alliin/Mod comparison there were a total of 33 up-regulated proteins and 17 down-regulated proteins ; while in the Mod/Con comparison , there were a total of 106 up-regulated proteins and 147 down-regulated proteins . GO enrichment , KEGG pathway analyses and Western blotting verification demonstrated that alliin up-regulates the expression of Low-density lipoprotein receptor ( LDLR ) ( P < 05 ) and apolipoprotein C ( ApoC ) ( P < 05 ) while down-regulating the expression of apolipoprotein B ( ApoB ) ( P < 05 ) to regulate the cholesterol metabolism pathway of the ox-LDL-injured HUVECs . Our findings highlight the importance of cholesterol metabolism in alliin treatment for atherosclerosis . Alliin exerts a protective effect in the ox-LDL-induced HUVEC injury model by modulating the expression of LDLR , ApoC , and ApoB within the cholesterol metabolism pathway . These findings indicate that alliin could potentially serve as a therapeutic agent for the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis .
The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship of insulin-like growth factor-1 ( IGF-1 ) and mild subclinical hypothyroidism ( MSH ) in obese boys and to assess whether the presence of MSH exacerbates cardiovascular risk factors in obesity . This study collected cross-sectional dataset covering 141 obese boys and 47 healthy non-obese boys . The obese group was further subdivided into two groups based on their serum Thyroid Stimulating Hormone ( TSH ) levels : the MSH group ( n = 47 ) and the non-MSH group ( n = 94 ) . The MSH group exhibited significantly lower IGF-1 standard deviation score ( IGF-1 SDS ) and significantly higher Body Mass Index standard deviation score ( BMI SDS ) compared to the non-MSH group . Additionally , the MSH group demonstrated elevated triglycerides ( TG ) and gamma-glutamyl transferase ( GGT ) levels relative to the non-MSH group , and the incidence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) and metabolic syndrome ( MS ) were also higher in the MSH group than in the non-MSH group . The results of multivariable logistic regression analysis indicated that lower IGF-1 SDS and higher BMI SDS are strongly associated with MSH in obese boys , independently of systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) , diastolic blood pressure ( DBP ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , GGT and uric acid . These findings underscore the clinical utility of IGF-1 SDS and BMI SDS as potential biomarkers for identifying MSH-related cardiovascular risks in obese pediatric populations , warranting targeted screening and intervention strategies .
The triglyceride-glucose body mass index ( TyG-BMI ) is acknowledged as a dependable surrogate biomarker for the evaluation of insulin resistance ( IR ) . Current research indicates a significant correlation between TyG-BMI and the risk of subsequent cardiovascular events in individuals diagnosed with cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic syndrome ( CKM ) at stages 0- Nevertheless , the prognostic significance of TyG-BMI in patients with CKM stage 4 has not been extensively investigated , and there is a paucity of evidence available on this topic . The study utilized patient data from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care ( MIMIC-IV ) database , categorizing the data into quartiles based on the TyG-BMI index . The primary outcomes of interest were all-cause mortality at 180 days and at one year . To assess the relationship between the TyG-BMI index and these outcomes in patients diagnosed with stage 4 CKM , a Cox proportional hazards model was employed . Additionally , a restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) model was applied to further investigate the associations between the TyG-BMI index and the specified outcomes . A total of 1 , 885 patients participated in the study , with 49% of the cohort being male . The all-cause mortality rates were recorded at 50% at 180 days and 12% at one year . Analysis using a multivariate Cox proportional hazards model revealed that an increase in the TyG-BMI index was significantly correlated with a reduction in the risk of all-cause mortality at both the 180-day and one-year marks . Specifically , for each standard deviation increase in the TyG-BMI index , the risk of all-cause mortality decreased by 17% within 180 days ( HR = 83 , 95% CI : 76-91 ) and by 21% within one year ( HR = 79 , 95% CI : 71-87 ) . Furthermore , regression analysis utilizing RCS indicated a linear decrease in all-cause mortality rates associated with increasing TyG-BMI index values over both the 180-day and one-year periods ( P for nonlinearity = 171 and P for nonlinearity = 141 , respectively ) . In patients diagnosed with stage 4 CKM syndrome , a reduced TyG-BMI index was found to be significantly correlated with a heightened risk of all-cause mortality within both 180 days and one year . Consequently , the TyG-BMI index may be utilized as an effective instrument for risk stratification and prognostic assessment in this patient population .
This study investigates the impact of various beverages and salads on lipid oxidation and the formation of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , glyoxal ( GO ) , and methylglyoxal ( MGO ) during in vitro gastrointestinal digestion of beef and chicken . Meat samples were digested alongside beverages ( grape juice , red wine , pomegranate juice , ayran , hardaliye , and shalgam ) and salads ( Mediterranean , red cabbage , and coban salad ) . HPLC analysis revealed that red wine , pomegranate juice , hardaliye , and shalgam significantly reduced MDA levels in both meat types ( up to 77% ) , while grape juice increased MDA in beef ( 27% ) and orange juice in chicken ( 80% ) . Shalgam was most effective in reducing MGO levels ( 54% ) , though red wine , pomegranate juice and , hardaliye increased GO and MGO levels . Red cabbage and Mediterranean salads reduced MDA across all samples , while coban salad was less effective . Ayran reduced MDA in both meats but increased MGO , especially in chicken ( 9% ) . Results indicate that antioxidant-rich beverages and salads can mitigate lipid oxidation and oxidative stress markers in meats during digestion , varying effectiveness by component . This highlights the value of selecting dietary additions to enhance meat quality and reduce oxidative damage .
The olive oil industry in Mediterranean countries generates large quantities of waste , recognized as a cheap source of valuable compounds . This study evaluated the antioxidant properties , nutritional value and antimicrobial activity of dried olive mill wastewater ( OMWW ) and its effect on vegetable oils ( corn and soybean ) during frying and selected food products . OMWW was found to contain 75 g GAE/L of free phenols , with oleuropein being the most bioactive compounds . Refined vegetable oils enriched with OMWW ( 600 mg/L ) showed an increase in induction times , indicating higher oxidative stability compared to oils with BHT . Sensory evaluation revealed no significant differences ( p < 05 ) in characteristics of French fries which fried in enriched refined oils versus controls . OMWW polyphenols effectively retarded lipid oxidation and improved oxidative stability of oils , nutritional value of French fries , and sensory attribute of mayonnaise . Beneficial use of OMWW as a natural antioxidant was recommended by the present study .
It has been suggested that the dietary approaches to stop hypertension ( DASH ) diet as a plant-based dietary pattern can be useful in improvement of risk factors of metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) . We designed a study to evaluate the effect of the DASH diet on insulin resistance and lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) in subjects with MetS . 60 subjects with MetS were assigned into two groups including the intervention group and the control group . The intervention group received DASH diet and the control group received a common healthy diet for 12 weeks . We measured fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) , triglyceride and glucose ( TyG ) index , metabolic score for insulin resistance ( METS-IR ) and LAP before and after intervention . We utilized SPSS software version 24 and an intention-to-treat method for data analysis . A total of 59 subjects completed the trial . After intervention a significant difference was observed between groups in FPG ( P < 001 ) , TyG index ( P < 001 ) and LAP ( P = 01 ) . However , there was no significant difference between groups in values of METS-IR ( P = 27 ) . There was a significant reduction in the intervention group compared to the control group in FPG ( -86 +/- 08 vs . 97 +/- 51 ; P = 01 ) , TyG index ( -20 +/- 14 vs . 02 +/- 11 ; P < 001 ) , METS-IR ( -50 +/- 99 vs . -53 +/- 21 ; P = 001 ) and LAP ( -06 +/- 02 vs . -87 +/- 17 ; P < 001 ) . Adherence to DASH diet can reduce some cardiovascular risk factors in subjects with MetS . Further clinical trials are required to reach a firm conclusion .
Starfish ( Asterias amurensis ) are important predators in the marine benthic environment , preying on mollusks and echinoderms . Their waste also causes significant environmental harm . However , starfish contain a variety of nutrients and biologically active compounds that require further investigation . To maintain marine ecosystems and address environmental waste , lipids were extracted from A . amurensis skin , and their immune-enhancing effects were evaluated in cyclophosphamide ( CY ) - induced immunosuppressive mice . A . amurensis lipids were combined with PEG 6000 ( AA-PEG ) , which contains a high content of polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs , 44% ) , primarily C20 : 5n Mice were administered various dosages of AA-PEG , ranging from 50 to 200 mg/kg body weight ( BW ) via oral delivery and CY injection . Results revealed that AA-PEG at 150 mg/kg BW promoted the recovery of cellular immune function in both splenocytes from the spleen and peritoneal macrophages , similar to the normal group . Administration of AA-PEG ( 50-150 mg/kg BW ) gradually raised the spleen index ( 2-5 mg/g ) and natural killer ( NK ) cell activity ( 91-102% ) , and enhanced ConA- or LPS-stimulated splenocyte proliferation . Subsets of T -lymphocytes ( CD4 + and CD8+ ) does-dependently increased by AA-PEG . The phagocytic capacity ( 58-82% ) and proliferation ( 69-98% ) of peritoneal macrophages , which had been reduced by CY , were restored with AA-PEG . AA-PEG boosts immunity by promoting nitric oxide ( NO ) generation ( 84-103% ) . Furthermore , AA-PEG has been shown to increase immune-related cytokines in splenocytes and peritoneal macrophages , indicating a potential enhancement of Th1 and Th2 activity . These results suggest that AA-PEG restored the immune function of immunosuppressed mice and could be used as an effective immunomodulatory agent , which may play a crucial role in maintaining environmental sustainability .
Skin is a regulatory hub for energy expenditure and metabolism , and alteration of lipid metabolism enzymes in skin impacts thermogenesis and obesogenesis in mice . Here we show that thermal properties of skin are highly reactive to diet : within three days , a high fat diet reduces heat transfer through skin . In contrast , a dietary manipulation that prevents obesity accelerates energy loss through skins . We find that skin is the largest target for dietary fat delivery , and that dietary triglyceride is assimilated by epidermis and dermal white adipose tissue , persisting for weeks after feeding . With caloric-restriction , mouse skins thin and assimilation of circulating lipids decreases . Using multi-modal lipid profiling , keratinocytes and sebocytes are implicated in lipid changes , which correlate with thermal function . We propose that skin should be routinely included in physiological studies of lipid metabolism , given the size of the skin lipid reservoir and its adaptable functionality .
Glycosphingolipids ( GSLs ) are important targets in immune , infectious , lysosomal storage diseases , cancer , and neurodegenerative diseases . Circulatory GSLs profiling in clinical samples is restricted by the lack of mid- and high-throughput analytical methods and deep coverage of long-chain sialylated glycosphingolipidome . We present a 4-dimensional ( 4D ) -glycosphingolipidomics platform for routine glycosphingolipidome profiling encompassing : extraction and fractionation of sialylated GSLs with 3 to 15 monosaccharides , neutral GSLs and sulfatides ; microL-flow reversed-phase LC-TIMS-PASEF MS analysis ; semi-quantification strategy adapted for fractionated glycosphingolipidome , and referential CCS , RT , and m/z values for GSLs annotation . 4D-glycosphingolipidomics of human serum reveals a high structural heterogeneity , amounting to 376 GSLs : 159 GSLs of ganglio- and neolacto-series , 145 neutral GSLs and 72 sulfatides . Here we demonstrate the platform ' s utility for clinical profiling of Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) sera . 41 neolacto- and ganglio-species discriminate PD patients from controls and 14 GSLs differentiate sex subgroups , laying the foundation for further functional GSL studies with PD .
Improving annotation accuracy , coverage , speed and depth of lipid profiles remains a significant challenge in traditional lipid annotation . We introduce LipidIN , an advanced framework designed for flash platform-independent annotation . LipidIN features a 5-million lipid fragmentation hierarchical library that encompasses all potential chain compositions and carbon-carbon double bond locations . The expeditious querying module achieves speeds exceeding one hundred billion queries per second across all mass spectral libraries . The lipid categories intelligence model is developed using three relative retention time rules , reducing false positive annotations and predicting unannotated lipids with a 7% estimated false discovery rate , covering 8923 lipids cross various species . More importantly , LipidIN integrates a Wide-spectrum Modeling Yield network for regenerating lipid fragment fingerprints to further improve accuracy and coverage with a 20% estimated recall boosting . We further demonstrate the utility of LipidIN in multiple tasks for lipid annotation and biomarker discovery in clinical cohorts .
Microbial synthesis of chemicals using renewable feedstocks has gained interest due to its sustainability . The class of beta , gamma-diols has unique chemical and physical properties , making them valuable for diverse applications . Here , we report a biosynthetic platform in Escherichia coli for the synthesis of branched-chain beta , gamma-diols from renewable feedstocks . Firstly , we identify an acetohydroxyacid synthase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae to catalyze the condensation of branched-chain aldehydes with pyruvate , forming alpha-hydroxyketones . Next , de novo production of branched-chain beta , gamma-diols ( 4-methylpentane-2 , 3-diol , 5-methylhexane-2 , 3-diol and 4-methylhexane-2 , 3-diol ) is realized from branched-chain amino acids ( BCAA ) metabolism . After systematic optimization of the BCAA pathway , we have achieved high-specificity production of 4-methylpentane-2 , 3-diol from glucose , achieving 8 mM ( 3 g/L ) 4-methylpentane-2 , 3-diol with 72% of the theoretical yield . In summary , our work demonstrates the synthesis of structurally diverse branched-chain beta , gamma-diols , highlighting its potential as a versatile carbon elongation system for other beta , gamma-diol productions .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is one of the most prevalent malignant tumors of the digestive system , and its prevalence is currently increasing . The current study aims to elucidate the mechanism by which membrane-associated RING-CH8 ( MARCH8 ) impedes the progression of HCC . MARCH8 was identified as a distinct prognostic marker for recurrence-free survival ( RFS ) and overall survival ( OS ) in patients with HCC . This study shows that MARCH8 hinders lipid deposition by suppressing the expression of key enzymes for the de novo synthesis of fatty acids ( FAs ) via RNA sequencing , untargeted metabolomics , and a series of in vivo and in vitro experiments . Further experimental validation demonstrated that MARCH8 was a novel E3 ligase of sterol regulatory element binding protein 1 ( SREBP1 ) . And , it primarily promoted the degradation of SREBP1 , thereby suppressing the expression of key enzymes involved in the de novo synthesis of FAs . In conclusion , this study has identified MARCH8 as a key " switch " that can be targeted to prevent de novo FA synthesis in HCC cells . This finding may have substantial implications for discovering innovative therapeutic strategies for HCC .
BACKGROUND : This study aimed to investigate the role of Apolipoprotein B ( Apo B ) in diabetic nephropathy ( DN ) from epidemiological and genetic perspectives . METHODS : We employed weighted multivariable-adjusted logistic regression to assess the relationship between ApoB and DN risk , utilizing data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey spanning 2007- Then , we used restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) to flexibly model and visualize the relation of predicted ApoB levels with DN risk . Subsequently , a bidirectional two-sample Mendelian randomization study using genome-wide association study summary statistics was performed . The primary Inverse Variance Weighted method , along with supplementary MR approaches , was employed to verify the causal link between ApoB and DN . Sensitivity analyses were conducted to confirm the robustness of the results . RESULTS : Our observational study enrolled 2242 participants with diabetes mellitus from NHANES . The multivariable logistic regression model indicated that elevated ApoB levels ( >2 g/L ) , compared to low levels ( <8 g/L ) , were significantly associated with DN risk ( P < 05 ) . The RCS model revealed a positive linear association with the risk of DN when ApoB levels exceeded 12 g/L ( OR = 29 , 95% CI : 07-57 , P = 008 ) . However , the MR IVW method did not reveal a direct causal effect of DN on ApoB ( OR : 976 ; 95% CI : 950-004 ; P = 095 ) , nor a direct causal effect of ApoB on DN ( OR : 837 ; 95% CI : 950-078 ; P = 428 ) . CONCLUSION : The evidence from observational studies indicates a positive correlation between ApoB levels exceeding 12 g/L and the onset of DN . However , the causal effects of ApoB on DN and vice versa were not supported by the MR analysis .
PURPOSE : To describe a rare case of paracentral acute middle maculopathy ( PAMM ) in a patient with idiopathic retinal vasculitis , aneurysms , and neuroretinitis ( IRVAN ) syndrome , highlighting potential vascular mechanisms underlying this association . METHODS : Observational Case report . RESULTS : An 18-year-old male previously diagnosed with bilateral IRVAN syndrome presented with a sudden paracentral scotoma in the left eye . Multimodal imaging showed multiple macroaneurysms , retinal hemorrhages , focal arteriolar vasculitis , and lipid exudation in both eyes . Swept-source optical coherence tomography ( SS-OCT ) of the left eye revealed a hyperreflective band in the inner nuclear layer in the paracentral temporal superior macular area , consistent with PAMM , without clear evidence of arterial compression . A conservative approach was chosen , and after three years of follow-up , retinal features and visual acuity remained stable . CONCLUSION : PAMM may manifest in IRVAN independent of detectable localized aneurysm compression of the deep capillary plexus . The findings underscore the importance of multimodal imaging and long-term monitoring to assess ischemic complications . Further investigations are warranted to clarify the pathophysiological relationship between these conditions . FAU - Couto , Ana Paula
INTRODUCTION : The coronary artery calcium ( CAC ) scan serves as a crucial tool in assessing the risk of coronary atherosclerosis in patients with hyperlipidaemia , particularly when there is ambiguity surrounding pharmacotherapy decisions . In addition to CAC , advanced glycation end products ( AGEs ) , glycated proteins and lipids involved in ageing are emerging as markers for atherosclerosis . However , the relationship between AGEs score and CAC scores has not been evaluated to date . Our primary objective is to evaluate abnormal CAC scores in patients with low and borderline ASCVD risk and normal low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels </=100 mg/dL . The secondary objective is to explore potential associations between CAC and AGEs scores . METHODS AND ANALYSIS : We will retrospectively review health records of adult patients seen at the General Internal Medicine Executive Health Program ( Mayo Clinic ; Rochester , Minnesota ) between 1 September 2023 and 31 March 2024 , where all patients were offered the option of a baseline CAC scan . For our primary aim , we will determine the percentage of patients with low and borderline 10-year Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease ( ASCVD ) risk , not receiving pharmacotherapy for hyperlipidaemia , who have LDL-C levels </=100 mg/dL and have an abnormal CAC score . For our secondary aim , we will examine potential associations between CAC and AGEs scores . ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION : This study was determined to be exempt from institutional review board approval ( ID 24-0 03 921 ; 45 CFR 104d , category/subcategory 4 ( iii ) ) at the Mayo Clinic , Rochester . The findings of this study will be published in a peer-reviewed journal .
BACKGROUND : The prevalence of kidney stones ( KSs ) has been increasing globally , and their association with cardiovascular disease and metabolic syndrome suggests a shared underlying pathophysiology . However , the impact of different stages of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic ( CKM ) syndrome on KS prevalence remains unclear . OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to investigate the association between the stages of CKM syndrome and the prevalence of KS in a nationally representative sample of adults in the USA . METHODS : A total of 15 568 participants aged >/=20 years were included in the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey 2007-2020 fasting subsample . CKM syndrome stages ( 0-4 ) were defined based on the 2023 American Heart Association Presidential Advisory on CKM Health . The KS history was determined using self-reported data . Multivariable logistic regression models were used to assess the association between the CKM syndrome stage and KS prevalence . RESULTS : Of the 15 568 participants , 1501 ( 64% ) reported a history of KS . The KS prevalence increased progressively with advancing CKM stage , rising from 10% in stage 0 to 55% in stage 4 ( p<001 ) . In the fully adjusted model , the ORs for KS were 18 ( 95% CI 83-68 ) for stage 1 , 72 ( 95% CI 28 to 32 ) for stage 2 , 00 ( 95% CI 29 to 10 ) for stage 3 and 36 ( 95% CI 64 to 40 ) for stage 4 , compared with stage 0 ( P for trend <001 ) . Stratified analyses revealed no significant interactions between age , sex , race/ethnicity or other subgroups . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrated a significant stepwise increase in KS prevalence with the advancing stages of CKM syndrome . These findings highlight the importance of monitoring and managing CKM syndromes to mitigate the risks of KS .
Hormone-dependent cancers , like breast and prostate cancers , represent a unique challenge in oncology due to their complex interplay between hormone signaling , immune evasion , and therapeutic resistance . While endocrine therapies effectively target hormone signaling to initially control disease , resistance mechanisms frequently emerge , leading to cancer progression and limited survival . These solid tumors further complicate treatment by establishing an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment ( TME ) , presenting variable numbers of immune cells depending on cancer type and stage , which hinders the efficacy of immune checkpoint inhibitors . In this TME , tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) are the major cellular source of immunosuppression , supporting tumor growth . The ability of TAMs to hamper the effectiveness of endocrine therapy is becoming increasingly recognized . Reprogramming TAMs within solid tumors can restore their natural ability to fight cancer and also enhance antitumoral efficacy . In this line of research , Al-Janabi et al have recently developed lipid nanoparticles decorated with antibodies that bind to the folate receptor-beta overexpressed in perivascular TAMs and loaded with a STING agonist ( cGAMP ) for the reprogramming of these TAMs . In preclinical murine models of prostate cancer , this therapeutic approach demonstrated significant synergistic activity with androgen deprivation therapy . This work provides an excellent example of TAM reprogramming combined with endocrine therapy for the treatment of hormone-dependent cancers .
Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent cell death pathway distinct from apoptosis , is crucial in breast cancer ( BC ) research , especially for overcoming resistance in triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) . Unlike traditional apoptosis , ferroptosis involves the glutathione ( GSH ) /glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) axis , iron-driven oxidative reactions , and phospholipid peroxidation . TNBC , characterized by the absence of estrogen receptor ( ER ) , progesterone receptor ( PR ) , and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 ( HER2 ) , is particularly prone to ferroptosis due to acyl-Coenzyme A synthetase ( ACSL ) 4-related lipid changes and solute carrier family 7 member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) -mediated cystine transport . Recent advancements in biomarkers and therapeutic strategies targeting ferroptosis hold significant promise for the prognosis and diagnosis of TNBC . Notable innovations encompass the development of small-molecule compounds and various methodologies designed to enhance ferroptosis . Combination therapies have demonstrated improved antitumor efficacy by counteracting chemotherapy resistance and inducing immunogenic cell death . Nonetheless , challenges persist in optimizing delivery mechanisms and minimizing off-target effects . This review underscores the progress in ferroptosis research and proposes precision oncology strategies that exploit metabolic flexibility in BC , intending to transform TNBC treatment and enhance therapeutic outcomes .
Thoracic aortic dissection ( TAD ) is a life-threatening cardiovascular disease characterized by rapid progression and high morbidity . Current efforts to develop effective treatment strategies focus on targeting apoptotic aortic endothelial cells and mitigating inflammation . Here , inspired by the inflammation-neutralizing capacity of functional cells , we present multifunctional biomimetic nanovesicles ( MM-LPs ) co-assembled from macrophage membranes and synthetic lipids for the targeted delivery of Senkyunolide I ( SEI ) in TAD treatment . The integration of macrophage membranes endows MM-LPs with the ability to selectively target activated vascular endothelial cells ( VECs ) while adsorbing proinflammatory cytokines to suppress inflammation . Additionally , these nanoparticles enable the controlled release of SEI , leading to significant anti-apoptotic effects . Leveraging these advantages , MM-LPs effectively mitigated VEC activation , reduced apoptosis , and prevented disease progression and rupture in a BAPN-induced mouse model of TAD . Furthermore , this system significantly reduced SEI-associated toxicity and adverse effects on the liver and kidneys . These findings highlight the potential of combining natural macrophage membranes with synthetic lipids to develop a multifunctional biomimetic drug delivery system for treating VEC dysfunction while minimizing drug-related side effects .
Epidemiological studies have highlighted a strong association between hyperlipidemia and an increased risk of cancer in the gut . Intestinal stem cells ( ISCs ) have been demonstrated as the cells of origin for tumorigenesis in the gut . However , the impact of hyperlipidemia on ISC homeostasis remains unclear . Here , we show that hyperlipidemia induced by low-density lipoprotein receptor ( Ldlr ) deficiency enhances ISC proliferation in vivo . Additionally , LDL treatment impairs organoid survival but increases ISC stemness ex vivo , as evidenced by the formation of poorly differentiated spheroid and higher ISC self-renewal capacity . Mechanistically , LDL treatment activates PPAR pathways , and pharmacological inhibition of PPAR and its downstream targets , including CPT1A and PDK4 , mitigates the effect of LDL on ISCs . These findings demonstrate that hyperlipidemia modulates ISC homeostasis , providing new insights into the mechanism linking hyperlipidemia with tumorigenesis in the gut .
This study employed a multiomic approach to investigate retinal tissue damage following direct ocular exposure ( DOE ) to vesicants ( VSs ) -namely , nitrogen mustard ( NM ) and lewisite ( Lew ) . We explored both the acute and chronic stages of retinal injury by assessing functional , structural , and molecular changes . C57BL/6 mice were used to measure scotopic and photopic electroretinograms ( ERGs ) and to analyze TUNEL-positive retinal cells . Global retinal proteomics was conducted to identify common and unique signaling pathways . In addition , we performed targeted metabolomic and lipidomic analyses of retinal tissue to uncover significant metabolic changes . Our results demonstrated remarkable declines in ERG amplitudes at 2 and 4 weeks post-exposure , accompanied by an increase in TUNEL ( + ) retinal cells in response to DOE to both VSs . Our proteomic analysis revealed chronic oxidative stress , mitochondrial dysfunction , elevated RXR signaling , and increased levels of 28 proteins . Moreover , we observed a decline in the KEGG phototransduction pathways , along with the downregulation of photoreceptor-specific proteins , in response to both VSs . Consistent with the proteomic findings , targeted metabolomics identified a decline in phototransduction and steroid hormone biosynthesis , along with increases in D-amino acid and purine metabolism , as well as lysine degradation . These changes were associated with a GSSG/GSH ratio of 6 , confirming the proteomic data on oxidative stress . Furthermore , lipidomic analysis revealed an increase in oxidative lipid levels , accompanied by a 4-fold increase in phosphatidylserine ( PS ) , suggesting apoptotic cell death and a reduction in fatty acids ( FAs ) . In conclusion , exposure to both VSs induced progressive retinal damage , altering major metabolic pathways and dysregulating lipid metabolism . Future studies should focus on identifying the responses of individual neuronal cell types to DOE to VSs to develop cell-specific countermeasures .
Antitumor potentials of dietary oleic acid ( OA ) , primarily through enhancing intracellular lipid accumulation in various human cancers are hindered by poor selectivity and tumor targetability . Cancer cells are also challenged by high concentration of glutathione ( GSH ) and favorable binding affinity of hyaluronic acid ( HA ) to the CD44 ( acidic cell surface adhesion protein ) receptor . A novel conjugate ( HA-CYS-OA , HOC ) was synthesized by linking GSH-sensitive cystamine ( CYS ) to OA and HA . This amphiphilic HOC could self-assemble into redox-sensitive nanoparticles ( HON ) to co-deliver OA and encapsulated doxorubicin ( DOX ) . HON synergistically enhanced anticancer efficacy by facilitating HA-mediated cellular uptake and GSH-triggered OA release in a targeted manner . Encapsulation of DOX in HON resulted in higher cellular uptake and more efficient DOX release compared to the commercially available liposomal DOX formulation . Furthermore , DOX-HON protected non-cancerous cells , while significantly increasing cytotoxicity and higher rate of apoptosis of human breast carcinoma cells , demonstrating superior selectivity indices . This enhanced performance was attributed to the triple synergistic actions of HA-mediated DOX targeting and OA-induced lipid accumulation from the redox-sensitive nanoformulation . Collectively , our results suggested that enzyme specific HON could be a bioactive and selective nanocarrier model for the co-delivery of fatty acids and chemotherapeutic drugs in synergistic cancer therapy .
Osteoarthritis ( OA ) is a chronic joint disease characterized by cartilage degeneration . In this study , we developed hydrogel microspheres for cartilage repair in OA . We designed and synthesized a novel nanomaterial using liposomes ( Lipo ) , which exhibits cartilage-targeting ability and pH responsiveness . These liposomes were surface-functionalized with cartilage-targeting peptides ( WYRGRL ) , encapsulated with the cationic lipid 1 , 2-dioleoyl-3-trimethylammonium-propane ( DOTAP ) , incorporated with a pH-responsive hydrazone ( HyD ) bond , and loaded with the bioactive molecule kartogenin ( KGN ) . These novel liposomes were embedded within methacrylated gelatin ( GM ) hydrogel microspheres to create the WYRGRL-DOTAP-Lipo@KGN@GM ( WDLKG ) hydrogel microspheres . Characterization tests revealed that the novel liposomes WYRGRL-DOTAP-Lipo@KGN ( WDLK ) exhibited cartilage-targeting ability and pH responsiveness and the WDLKG hydrogel microspheres showed excellent dispersibility and uniform size . Further in vitro cell-experiments demonstrated that WDLKG hydrogel microspheres effectively promoted chondrogenesis , and exhibited anti-inflammatory effects via enhancing the anabolism while reducing the catabolism in chondrocytes . Transcriptomic analysis revealed that WDLKG induced chondrogenesis primarily through collagen trimer formation and collagen-containing extracellular matrix biosynthesis . In vivo experiments in a mouse OA model confirmed the sustained release of WDLKG and demonstrated that intra-articular injection of WDLKG significantly inhibited cartilage degeneration . These findings underscore the potential of our nanomaterials for targeted therapy , advancing OA cartilage treatment .
Renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) represents a deadly type of genitourinary cancer , noted for its strong tendency to metastasize and its unfavorable outlook for patients . Despite significant advancements in targeted therapies and immunotherapies , tumor heterogeneity and therapeutic resistance remain formidable challenges , underscoring the urgent need for novel treatment strategies . Long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) , once thought to be non-translatable , have recently been discovered to encode functional peptides that are crucial in the progression of tumors . In this study , we employed peptidomics to screen RCC tissues for lncRNA-encoded peptides and identified a novel peptide , TCL6148 , encoded by TCL Through detailed bioinformatics assessments , laboratory experiments , and studies conducted in living organisms , we established that TCL6148 exerts anti-tumor effects by triggering ferroptosis in RCC cells through the GOT1/GPX4 signaling pathway . Mechanistically , TCL6148 facilitated the accumulation of Fe ( 2+ ) , increased levels of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , and boosted lipid peroxidation , thus rendering RCC cells more susceptible to ferroptosis . Importantly , TCL6148 significantly enhanced the therapeutic effectiveness of sunitinib , indicating a promising combined approach for addressing drug resistance . In vivo experiments further validated the safety and efficacy of TCL6148 in suppressing RCC tumor growth . Collectively , our findings identify TCL6148 as a promising candidate for RCC treatment and provide novel insights into peptide-based therapeutic approaches , offering a potential avenue for improving RCC management .
In this study , starch-linolenic acid complexes were prepared using the extrusion method with corn starches of varying amylose contents and alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA ) as raw materials . The effects of different amylose and ALA contents on the complexation state and physicochemical properties of the starch-linolenic acid complexes were investigated . The results indicated that the complex formed by normal maize starch and 9 % ALA ( EMS-9%ALA ) had the highest complexation index , reaching 03 % . X-ray diffraction results analysis revealed that both high-amylose maize starch ( G70 ) and normal maize starch ( MS ) could form V-type crystalline structures with ALA among the three types of starches . Scanning electron microscopy and C solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy analyses demonstrated that , compared to MS and waxy maize starch ( WMS ) , the structure of G70 could not be completely disrupted during the low-temperature extrusion process , which hindered the formation of amylose-ALA complexes . In contrast , MS was more likely to form amylose-ALA complexes and provided better protection for ALA . Furthermore , the in vitro release experiment results indicated that the EMS-9%ALA complex had certain slow-release properties and a relatively high release rate of 52 % . These findings suggest that extrusion more readily altered the helical structure of normal maize starch , facilitating the entry of ALA into the helical cavity . Therefore , normal maize starch is the optimal choice for preparing such complexes by the extrusion method .
BASS ( Bile acid/sodium symporter ) contribute greatly to pyruvate transport for oil biosynthesis . This work focused on determining critical BASS and revealing function in controlling oil biosynthesis in Lindera glauca seeds . A combination of global analysis of oil biosynthesis-related plastidial transporters and quantitative-comparison of transcription of BASS family members with oil content was conducted in L . glauca seeds across 9 differential accessions or developmental stages to determine BASS2 specific for seed oil accumulation , with BASS2-directed regulation model constructed for partitioning carbon into plastid glycolysis . BASS2 gene and its own promoter were isolated , and heterologous expression in Arabidopsis was driven respectively by the constitutive 35S and self-specific promoters . LgBASS2 overexpression , particularly controlled by native promoter , enhanced seed biomass and oil production , facilitated uptake of glycolytic metabolites into plastid , increased the amounts of plastid glycolytic metabolites and FA synthetic precursors , and upregulated transcription of key regulatory enzymes or proteins ( involving sucrose cleavage , plastid transporter , glycolysis , FA biosynthesis , triacylglycerol assembly and lipid droplet budding ) . Our findings highlighted a significance of own promoter-controlled transcriptional expression of LgBASS2 to promoting seed development with high oil production , and provided new molecular regulation target of LgBASS2 and its own promoter to future bioengineering seed oil production .
Sepsis frequently precipitates a spectrum of serious organ dysfunction syndromes , notably inducing severe cardiac insufficiency . Emerging evidence have linked the roles of N-methyladenosine ( mA ) modification and ferroptosis to sepsis-induced myocardial injury . However , the potential mechanism of mA regulator methyltransferase-like 5 ( METTL5 ) in sepsis-induced myocardial injury is still unclear . In vivo rats ' sepsis model , lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) administration increased the level of METTL5 and mA modification enrichment . In LPS-induced cardiomyocytes , METTL5 silencing ( shRNA-METTL5 ) alleviated the lipid ROS accumulation , MDA , or iron overload , which also promoted cardiomyocytes ' proliferation . The data indicated that METTL5 acted as a driver of ferroptosis in sepsis-induced myocardial injury . Mechanistically , METTL5 installed the mA modification of NRF2 mRNA , and YTHDF2 targeted NRF2 mRNA to trigger its degradation . NRF2 could repress the ferroptosis in LPS-induced cardiomyocytes . Thus , METTL5 consequently accelerated the ferroptosis in sepsis-induced myocardial injury via YTHDF2/NRF2 axis and mA-dependent manner . In summary , the findings revealed the function of METTL5 on LPS-induced cardiomyocytes ' ferroptosis , providing a potential therapeutic target for sepsis-induced myocardial injury .
Renal ischemia-reperfusion injury ( IRI ) , a common complication following kidney transplantation and partial nephrectomy , is the leading cause of renal dysfunction with limited treatment . Excessive cellular iron accumulation drives lipid peroxidation and activates pathways associated with ferroptosis , which has been implicated in renal IRI . However , the regulatory mechanisms of cellular iron metabolism and its relationship with ferroptosis during ischemia-reperfusion ( IR ) remain unclear . In this study , in vitro OGSD-R ( oxygen , glucose , and serum deprivation-restoration ) models and in vivo IR models were employed to investigate alterations in iron metabolism , ferroptosis , and the underlying molecular mechanisms using immunofluorescence , immunoblotting and biochemical testing . We identified glucose deprivation-restoration ( GD-R ) as a key trigger of cellular iron overload under renal IR condition . Mechanistically , GD-R-induced iron overload is driven by the dysfunction of vacuolar ATPase ( V-ATPase ) -mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway . Inactivation of mTOR results in lysosomal iron releases via two-pore channel 2 ( TPC2 ) and ferritin degradation through ferritinophagy . This process elevates intracellular iron levels , thereby promoting ferroptosis in renal IRI . Targeting cellular iron metabolism effectively alleviates renal IRI . These findings highlight the critical role of glucose metabolism and V-ATPase-mTOR pathway in the regulation of iron homeostasis and ferroptosis during renal IRI , and establish a mechanistic link among glucose metabolism , iron overload and ferroptosis , providing potential therapeutic targets for renal IRI .
BACKGROUND : Rotator cuff tear ( RCT ) -induced muscle degeneration is a serious medical issue and an effective treatment is lacking . Glycyrrhizin ( GL ) may inhibit lipid accumulation in cancer cells , but its effect on musculoskeletal disorders remains unknown . The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of GL on muscle degeneration following RCT . METHODS : Fibro-adipogenic progenitor cells ( FAPs ) were cultured in adipogenesis induction medium with or without GL treatment , followed by Oil Red O and perilipin staining to assess adipogenic differentiation and lipid accumulation . Female C57BL/6 mice ( 10-week-old ) were used ( n = 10 for each group ) to explore the anti-adipogenic properties of GL in vivo . The rotator cuff was transected , the proximal humerus was excised , and the suprascapular nerve was denervated to induce degeneration of the rotator cuff muscles , creating a model of rotator cuff degeneration . Adipose infiltration was assessed through histological analysis by comparing GL-treated , non-treated , and sham-operated control groups . Differences in fibrosis progression , muscle weight , and mRNA expression of adipogenic and fibrotic markers were examined . RESULTS : When FAPs were induced adipogenic differentiation , lipid accumulation was significantly reduced in the GL-treated group compared to the control group ( P < 001 ) . Histological examination at 4 weeks post-RCT showed severe fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus , infraspinatus , and subscapularis muscles in the RCT group ( P < 001 , P < 001 , P < 001 ) . However , GL treatment significantly suppressed RCT-associated fatty infiltration of the supraspinatus and infraspinatus muscles ( P < 001 , P = 003 ) . Quantitative polymerase chain reaction showed that GL treatment significantly downregulated the mRNA expression of adipogenic differentiation markers in the supraspinatus ( P = 019 ) and infraspinatus ( P = 002 ) muscles compared with the untreated RCT group . However , GL treatment did not affect muscle fibrosis ( P = 998 , P = 618 , P = 963 ) and weight ( P = 176 , P = 891 , P = 872 ) compared with the untreated RCT group . CONCLUSION : GL suppressed the adipogenic differentiation of FAPs and fatty infiltration in a mouse model of RCT , suggesting a potential role for GL in RCT treatment . LEVEL OF EVIDENCE : Basic Science Study ; In vivo Animal Model .
Depression is a severe global health problem accompanied by persistent low mood that harms the physical and mental health of people and places a substantial economic burden on society . Mangiferin ( MGF ) , a natural polyphenol in the traditional Chinese herb Anemarrhena asphodeloides Bge . , can improve neuronal damage , memory , and cognitive deficits , implicating the therapeutic potential of MGF for depression . MGF has a unique C-glycosyl and phenolic structure that endows it with multiple biological properties , e . g . , anti-oxidant , anti-inflammatory , and anti-mitochondrial dysfunction . However , the pharmacological role of MGF in depression remains unclear . Therefore , this review describes the neuroprotective effects and the antidepressant mechanisms of MGF in preclinical depression studies . MGF ameliorates cognitive deficits in depression and neurodegenerative diseases animal models by reducing amyloid-beta deposition , ameliorating cholinergic dysfunction , and increasing neurotrophic factors . Also , MGF regulates molecular mechanisms in depressed animals mainly through anti-inflammation ( by inhibiting NLRP3 inflammasome activation , mitogen-activated protein kinase phosphorylation and its downstream nuclear factor-small ka , CyrillicB signaling pathway , and indoleamine 2 , 3-dioxygenase activity ) , anti-oxidant ( by increasing levels of anti-oxidant enzymes and inhibiting lipid peroxidation ) . Notably , the potential mechanisms of MGF in treating depression by modulating neurotransmission ( e . g . , glutamate , dopamine , norepinephrine , and serotonin ) need to be further explored . It is hoped to explore further the potential molecular mechanisms of MGF ' s biological activity in depression and provide directions for further clinical applications .
Camptothesome , a sphingomyelin ( SM ) -conjugated camptothecin ( CPT ) vesicular nanotherapeutic , addresses the poor solubility and lactone instability of CPT while enhancing drug loading , pharmacokinetics , and tumor distribution compared to CPT physically entrapped in conventional liposomes . Despite these improvements , the tumor uptake remains limited . To further enhance the tumor delivery efficiency and minimize the off-target distribution , we functionalize Camptothesome with the LinTT1 peptide , a CendR motif , which binds to overexpressed p32 proteins on tumor cell surface , initiating effective transcytosis for deep tumor penetration . Via systematic screening , the optimal peptide ratio on Camptothesome is identified . LinTT1/Camptothesome significantly increases cancer cell uptake without affecting normal cell internalization , resulting in enhanced anti-colorectal cancer cells activity . Additionally , decorating Camptothesome with the LinTT1 cell-penetrating peptide enables effective transcytosis via a Golgi-dependent intracellular trafficking mechanism , significantly improving the intratumoral delivery while reducing distribution to normal tissues . In a human HCT116 xenograft colorectal cancer ( CRC ) mouse model , LinTT1/Camptothesome demonstrates superior antitumor efficacy compared to both Camptothesome and Onivyde by upregulating cleaved caspase-3 and gammaH2AX . Our study substantiates the potential of leveraging a tumor-penetrating peptide to enhance the tumor delivery efficiency of Camptothesome , maximizing its therapeutic index for improved treatment of human CRC . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : Despite the improved tumor delivery achieved by Camptothesome , its tumor distribution and penetration remain limited . This is because the enhanced permeability and retention effect only facilitates nanotherapeutic distribution to tumor periphery through leaky vasculature . The C-end Rule ( CendR ) motif-neuropilin receptor system enhances tumor-homing peptides by binding to cellular surface receptors , triggering transcytosis . Herein , LinTT1 , the most potent CendR peptide that binds to the overexpressed p32 receptor on cancer cells , was effectively engineered onto Camptothesome using thiol-maleimide lipid chemistry . The LinTT1/Camptothesome significantly enhanced tumor uptake and penetration while minimizing accumulation in normal tissues , demonstrating remarkable anticancer efficacy in a human xenograft colorectal cancer model . Our findings highlight the critical role of tumor-homing peptides in unlocking the full therapeutic potential of Camptothesome .
Indocyanine green ( ICG ) J-aggregate ( IJA ) is a self-assembled ICG with a red-shift absorption band , enabling better tissue penetration than the monomeric ICG . Despite its superior photoacoustic imaging capabilities and heating stability to ICG , IJA suffers from low optical stability in aqueous and biological media , jeopardising their biomedical applications . The present work focused on loading p-IJA into liposomes to enhance their promising therapeutic and imaging applications . To optimise IJA loading into liposomes , we investigated the effect of lipid bilayer composition ( lipid melting points , cholesterol , DSPE-PEG , and lipid charge ) on the encapsulation of pre-formed IJA ( p-IJA ) into liposomes . Our findings showed the significance of high melting point lipids , high cholesterol , and DSPE-PEG contents for persevering p-IJA following loading into liposomes . Moreover , low percentages ( approximately 5 mol % ) of positively charged ( DOTAP ) or negatively charged ( DSPG ) lipids could still be incorporated into our liposomes without affecting p-IJA loading . Promisingly , p-IJA-liposomes enhanced p-IJA optical stability in a range of biological media , such as serum proteins , blood and collagen . Finally , lyophilised p-IJA-liposomes for long-term storage were successfully prepared . The present study solely focused on evaluating the enhanced photothermal stability of p-IJA following liposome envelopment . Nevertheless , our lipid-enveloped p-IJA could offer a biodegradable and stable platform for multimodal applications , including photoacoustic imaging , photothermal therapy ( PTT ) , photodynamic ( PDT ) , nanobubble-mediated ablation , and combination therapy with chemotherapeutics agents .
Divinyl ether synthases ( DESs ) are the enzymes catalyzing the dehydration of fatty acid hydroperoxides to divinyl ether oxylipins . DESs , along with allene oxide synthases ( AOSs ) , hydroperoxide lyases ( HPLs ) , and epoxyalcohol synthases ( EASs ) , are members of the CYP74 clan of unusual cytochromes P450 playing a key role in the lipoxygenase pathway . The present work focuses on the study of the structure-function relationships in Asparagus officinalis DES ( AoDES , CYP74H2 ) via site-directed mutagenesis at some catalytically essential sites . Single mutant forms L106F and L282G retained the DES activity . However , the L106F mutant possessed significant alteration of stereochemical specificity of divinyl ether synthesis compared with WT AoDES . For example , while WT AoDES specifically converted linoleic acid 13 ( S ) -hydroperoxide into ( 11Z ) -etheroleic acid , its yield was significantly reduced by the L106F mutation , whereas etheroleic and ( all-E ) -etheroleic acids were the major ones . In contrast , the L282G mutation did not significantly affect the ( 11Z ) -etheroleic acid formation . However , the L282G protein produced some additional products like those of HPL and EAS , along with divinyl ethers . The L106F/L282G double mutant protein lost DES activity . It converted alpha-linolenic 9- and 13-hydroperoxides into HPL chain cleavage products . At the same time , this mutant efficiently converted the linoleic acid 9-hydroperoxide into diol , 9 , 14-dihydroxy-10 , 12-octadecadienoic acid , presumably via the hydrolysis of the short-lived epoxydiene , 9 , 10-epoxy-11 , 13-octadecadienoic acid . Furthermore , the L106F/L282G/Q343P triple mutant showed AOS activity alongside DES . The appearance of EAS and HPL catalysis , as well as the biosynthesis of 9 , 14-epoxydiene via short-lived epoxydiene via site-directed mutagenesis in the catalytically relevant domains of DES , was demonstrated for the first time .
Oxylipins are bioactive lipid mediators derived from fatty acids ; however , a comprehensive investigation of oxylipin profiles is absent in bivalves . Moreover , the physiological functions and bioactivities of PUFA-derived oxylipins warrant further exploration . In this study , we found that appropriate dietary linoleic acid ( LA ) /n-3 PUFAs enhanced the growth of the clam Sinonovacula constricta and improved its survival under hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) stress . Targeted lipidomic showed that the high-LA diet increased accumulation of LA and LA-derived oxylipins . Interestingly , a similar pattern was observed for alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA ) and ALA-derived oxylipins , potentially contributing to the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects of this dietary pattern . However , dietary n-3 PUFAs provided greater protection against HO-induced damage . Dietary n-3 PUFAs significantly increased the levels of oxylipins derived from docosahexaenoic acid and eicosapentaenoic acid , particularly 14 ( S ) -hydroxydocosahexaenoic acid ( 14 ( S ) -HDHA ) and 12-hydroxyeicosapentaenoic acid ( 12-HEPE ) . Furthermore , 14 ( S ) -HDHA and 12-HEPE restored cell viability in hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) -treated RAW7 cells . Mechanistically , 12-HEPE inhibited nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) nuclear translocation while promoting nuclear translocation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) , thereby reducing inflammatory responses and enhancing antioxidant capacity . Additionally , 12-HEPE increased antioxidant activity and suppressed inflammatory gene expression in clam hemolymph cells . This study represents the first comprehensive evaluation of the oxylipin profile in bivalves , further emphasizing the importance of dietary n-3 PUFAs intake in shaping n-3 PUFA-derived oxylipins and consequently influencing inflammation and redox status . Additionally , our study revealed that 12-HEPE alleviates cell damage induced by HO , with NF-kappaB and Nrf2 being key pathways .
Activation of adiponectin receptors ( AdipoRs ) has been shown to regulate glucose and lipid metabolism in mammalian hepatocytes . However , much less is known for their roles in fish . The current study demonstrated that AdipoRon , a small-molecule activator of AdipoRs , modulated glucose and lipid metabolism in large yellow croaker . In hepatocytes of large yellow croaker , AdipoRon upregulated the mRNA expression of adipors and appl1 , while increasing phosphorylation levels of AMPK and AKT . These changes indicate the activation of AdipoR-mediated signaling . Furthermore , AdipoRon promoted glucose uptake , increased intracellular glucose content , as well as upregulated genes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis whereas downregulated gluconeogenesis-related genes . On the other hand , AdipoRon facilitated free fatty acid ( FFA ) absorption by increasing the expression of fatty acid transport genes ( fat/cd36 , fatp1 , and fabp11 ) . It also enhanced triglyceride ( TG ) synthesis , evidenced by increased triglyceride levels and upregulation of dgat2 and PPARgamma , which is consistent with the effect of adiponectin ( APN ) in large yellow croaker . Additional evidence suggested that inhibition of PPARgamma with GW9662 reduced the effects of AdipoRon on glucose uptake and lipid metabolism , indicating that PPARgamma is a key mediator in these metabolic regulations . Overall , AdipoRon was found to modulate multiple metabolic processes in hepatocytes of large yellow croaker via PPARgamma signaling pathway , and these findings suggested that AdipoRon might contribute to beneficial effects on metabolic homeostasis in teleosts .
A hallmark of insects is their cuticle that protects them against predators and parasites , prevents desiccation and xenobiotic penetration and , finally , serves locomotion as an exoskeleton . In the last two decades , tremendous efforts have yielded a plethora of molecular and histological data that have boosted our understanding of the mechanisms of cuticle formation and function . As the factors involved in cuticle formation and function are to a large extent specific to insects , these data may be used in intelligent pest management strategies . The brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens is a major rice pest in Asia . Cuticle research in this species has been following findings in other insect species recapitulating most collected results . There are , in addition , several important data in N . lugens that advanced our understanding in cuticle biology in insects generally . For instance , it was demonstrated in the brown planthopper that a chitin-binding protein , namely NlugCpr47 is needed for organ shaping . Moreover , based on genetic data , it was hypothesised that cuticular lipids may be organised in layers depending on the size of the molecules . Finally , pore canals , the nanotubes system that is used as a transport route for cuticle lipid deposition , were visualised in 3D with high resolution for the first time in an insect . These examples , reviewed in this article , underline the importance of a detailed molecular and histological approach in non-model insects for a better understanding of cuticle biology in general .
Maternal separation ( MS ) leads to changes in maternal behavior . Maternal exercise could be a potent modifier of maternal behavior ( MB ) . Regular physical exercise is widely recommended but is frequently modified during pregnancy , so we tested whether stopping , starting , reducing , or maintaining the running intensity during pregnancy can protect dams from MS-induced behavior and memory alterations , as well as influence mother-pup bonding . Female rats were divided into six groups : non-exercised mothers that were not submitted to MS ( Control ) ; non-exercised mothers submitted to MS ( MS ) ; mothers that ran ( physical exercise ) only before pregnancy and were submitted to MS ( PRE+MS ) ; mothers that started to run at the beginning of pregnancy submitted to MS ( GEST+MS ) ; mothers that ran before pregnancy and reduced the running intensity during pregnancy and were submitted to MS ( RED+MS ) ; and , mothers that ran at the same intensity before and during pregnancy and were submitted to MS ( EQUAL+MS ) . We performed MS from PND 1 to 10 , three hours per day . We assessed MB for 30 min after MS from PND 1 to We assessed object recognition ( OR ) memory before and during pregnancy and after weaning . We assessed maternal preference ( MP ) one week after weaning . We measured hippocampal lipid peroxidation and catalase levels 24 h after the ending of all tests . PRE+MS leads to detraining and memory deficits at the end of pregnancy and after weaning . MS , PRE+MS , and RED+MS increased the time spent in the nest . GEST+MS mothers preferred contact with their male and female offspring after weaning . GEST+MS prevents OR deficit after weaning . PRE+MS showed increased lipid peroxidation after weaning . MS increased catalase levels ; all exercised groups prevented this effect .
Peanut meal ( PM ) is rich in proteins and fatty acids , which enables it to be a valuable substrate for microbial growth . This study aimed to investigate the effect of PM on the growth and erythritol production of Yarrowia lipolytica CA20 and to establish a procedure for low-cost erythritol production using PM . We found that PM could be used as the only medium component , except for glucose , to support cell growth and erythritol production during submerged fermentation . After optimization of medium compositions and growth conditions , erythritol of 25 +/- 8 g/L was obtained after fermentation for 144 h in a 7-L bioreactor , with a yield of 69 +/- 03 g/g . Transcriptome analysis showed that the enhanced erythritol production by CA20 was associated with an increased activity of the metabolism of carbohydrates , amino acids , and lipids . Condition optimization elevated the activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase ( ZWF1 ) and phosphogluconate dehydrogenase ( GND1 ) involved in erythritol synthesis . Moreover , hyphal formation of Y . lipolytica was completely inhibited in medium with PM . Besides , A002891 and A001489 were identified to be the key genes associated with erythritol production . Finally , a robust strain , Yarrowia lipolytica CE1 , was constructed by deletion of A002891 combined with overexpression of A001489 in CA20 , which was able to produce erythritol of 78 +/- 10 g/L within 108 h from PM and glucose , with a yield of 73 +/- 05 g/g . Collectively , this study provides a valuable way for economical erythritol production and a high-value-added conversion of PM .
Vinculin ( Vcn ) and its splice variant metavinculin ( MVcn ) are cell adhesion proteins that regulate cell morphology , adhesion and motility . They function as scaffold proteins that anchor membrane receptors to filamentous actin ( F-actin ) at focal adhesions ( FA ) and cell-cell junctions . MVcn bears an extra 68 amino acid insert in the tail domain and is selectively expressed in cardiac and smooth muscle cells at sub-stoichiometric levels relative to Vcn . Mutations in the MVcn tail domain ( MVt ) promote cardiomyopathy , yet how these mutations alter ligand interactions to promote defects in force transduction and reduced blood flow is unclear . One difference between Vcn and MVcn lies in the ability to reorganize F-actin , with MVcn negatively regulating Vcn-mediated F-actin bundling . Vcn associates with phosphatidylinositol 4 , 5-bisphosphate ( PIP ) through its tail domain ( Vt ) to drive recruitment , activation and FA turnover . However , it remains unclear whether MVcn specifically associates with PIP-containing membranes and how such interactions might influence its functional interplay with Vcn in tissues where both isoforms coexist . To evaluate the interaction of MVt and MVt cardiomyopathy mutants with PIP-membranes in comparison with Vt , we conducted mutagenesis , phospholipid-association assays and computational modeling . We found that MVt shows reduced association for PIP-containing liposomes relative to Vt due to sequence differences within the insert region . Moreover , mutations in MVt that promote cardiomyopathies do not affect PIP-dependent lipid association . These findings suggest that MVcn differs from Vcn in driving PIP-mediated membrane association and sheds light on the coordinate role of Vcn and MVcn in membrane association as well as MVcn cardiomyopathy defects .
Macromolecular organization of proteins and lipids in cellular membranes is fundamental to cell functionality . Recent advances in native mass spectrometry ( nMS ) have established it as a key analytical tool for capturing these associations . This typically necessitates the extraction of target membrane proteins from their physiological environments into detergent-like surroundings . In our recent studies using in vitro synthetic liposomes , we discovered that gas phase supercharging can selectively destabilize lipid bilayers and enable MS1 detection of embedded and associated protein-lipid complexes . Here , we further extend and apply this methodology to native cell-derived membrane vesicles . We demonstrate our ability to detect and ID protein complexes and their proteoforms directly from native membranes using supercharger-assisted pre-quadrupole activation followed by downstream native top-down MS/MS that combines both collision-based and electron capture-based fragmentations approaches . We first demonstrated this approach through native top-down identification of several integral membrane proteins from in vitro membranes . Subsequently , we developed a protocol to produce nMS-ready native membrane vesicles . Applying to E . coli total membranes , we generated nMS-ready vesicles and identified both integral and membrane-associated protein complexes of homomeric and heteromeric nature using our supercharging-enabled nTD-platform . For the hetero-pentameric BAM-complex , which includes the integral membrane protein BAM-A , we detected several lipidated proteoforms . For peripheral homo-dimeric DLDH , we identified bound endogenous metabolite co-factors . Furthermore , using BAM-complex , a crucial antibiotic target , we show how this platform could be utilized to study drug binding to membrane proteins directly from their native membranes .
BACKGROUND : Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is a prevalent liver condition associated with metabolic syndrome , often aggravated by inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction . This study aims to explore the therapeutic potential of magnoflorine , an alkaloid with known anti-inflammatory properties , in ameliorating NAFLD by modulating mitochondrial autophagy and inhibiting the NLRP3 inflammasome . METHODS : Male C57BL/6 J mice were fed a high-fat diet ( HFD ) for 16 weeks to induce NAFLD . Magnoflorine ( 5 and 10 mg/kg ) was administered by gavage daily for 16 weeks . Liver and serum samples were analyzed for lipid profiles , inflammation markers , and autophagy-related proteins , and liver histology was examined to assess changes . RESULTS : Magnoflorine treatment improved dyslipidemia in NAFLD mice , shown by decreased serum triglycerides , total cholesterol , and LDL-C , and increased HDL-C . Histological analysis showed reduced hepatic steatosis and inflammation , with less lipid droplet accumulation and hepatocyte ballooning . Western blot results indicated upregulation of Parkin and PINK1 , and downregulation of NLRP3 , ASC , and caspase-1 , with lower serum IL-1beta levels , reflecting reduced inflammation . CONCLUSIONS : Magnoflorine offers a promising approach for mitigating NAFLD progression through modulating mitochondrial autophagy and inhibiting inflammation .
Nanoplastics ( NPs ) are emerging environmental contaminants capable of crossing biological barriers and accumulating in organs such as the liver , raising growing concerns about their potential contribution to nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) . Notably , bottled water has been recognised as a major daily source of NP exposure . However , the associations between NP exposure and NAFLD onset , as well as the mechanistic basis , remain unclear . To investigate this , we analysed data from the NHANES 2013-2016 cycles , using daily bottled water intake to estimate NP exposure and the hepatic steatosis index ( HSI ) as an indicator of liver fat accumulation . Animal and cellular experiments were conducted to evaluate NP-induced hepatic alterations . Additionally , transcriptomic analysis of liver tissues was performed , and integration with DisGeNET and the Comparative Toxicogenomics Database ( CTD ) enabled bioinformatic analyses and identification of key regulatory pathways . Epidemiological results revealed a significant positive correlation between bottled water consumption and HSI . Experimental findings demonstrated that NP exposure induced liver vacuolisation , oxidative damage , metabolic disruption , and inflammation in both in vivo and in vitro models . Transcriptomic and database integration revealed that NP exposure suppressed the PPAR signalling pathway , particularly by downregulating PPARgamma expression , with excessive ROS generation likely contributing to this inhibition . These results were summarised in an adverse outcome pathway ( AOP ) framework , illustrating how NP exposure may impair PPARgamma signalling and promote hepatic lipid accumulation . In conclusion , this study provides evidence that environmental NP exposure may be a contributing factor to NAFLD development and highlights the potential public health impact of the intake of NPs from bottled water .
A positive association between human exposure to environmental pollutants and progression from benign hepatic steatosis to advanced chronic liver diseases has been documented . Among chemicals found in air pollution , polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs ) are of particular concern , due to their omnipresence in the environment . Ingestion of contaminated food is the primary route of exposure . Previous studies on the ability of PAHs to induce the pathological progression of liver steatosis have been limited to the analysis of individual PAHs . The aim of this study was therefore to examine the effects of a mixture of PAHs whose composition closely recapitulates that of contaminated food . The PAH mixture elicited both a steatohepatitis-like state in steatotic WIF-B9 hepatocytes ( 100 nM for 72 hours ) and the progression of steatohepatitis in rats fed a lipid-enriched diet ( 8 mg/kg for 90 days ) . The PAH mixture induced transient necroptosis at 5 hours followed by a gradual increase in cellular apoptosis . PAH metabolism-dependent necroptosis appeared to be responsible for the development of the secondary apoptosis . Hepatocyte exposure induced a necroptosis-dependent release of extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) , that appeared to be protective against necroptosis ; however , those necroptotic EVs triggered apoptosis in recipient hepatocytes . Blocking of ASGR EV receptors with asialofetuin inhibited the interaction of EVs with hepatocytes and hence apoptosis . In conclusion , EV release seems to be crucial to avoid necroptosis , but inhibition of EV uptake can protect against apoptosis .
The Renin-Angiotensin system ( RAS ) has receptors in key brain areas , including the striatum , and has been implicated in traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) outcomes through involvement in inflammation and oxidative stress . To date , whether striatal RAS dysregulation alongside inflammatory response and oxidative stress underlie mild TBI-related motor coordination and learning impairments remain to be explored . Herein , we employed a weight drop model to induce mild TBI ( mTBI ) in mice and investigate striatal damage at 72 h after the trauma . mTBI mice displayed significant decrease in the motor learning index and increase in the latency to fall in the rotarod compared with sham controls . In parallel , mTBI-mice had increased expression of RAS classical arm components AT1 and AT2 receptors along with a decrease in RAS counter-regulatory component Mas receptor in the ipsilateral striatum . The neurotrophic factor GDNF increased and the chemokine CX3CL1 decreased in the ipsilateral striatum while TNF-alpha enhanced in the contralateral striatum at 72 h after mTBI . Higher lipid peroxidation ( TBARS ) levels were found in both ipsilateral and contralateral striatum of mTBI mice compared with sham mice . We provided original evidence that changes in RAS , inflammatory , neurotrophic and oxidative stress responses in the striatum may contribute to motor dysfunction following acute mTBI .
Approximately 4% of all cancer cases worldwide are caused by alcohol consumption ( oropharynx , larynx , esophagus , stomach , colorectum , liver and the female breast ) . Various mechanisms contribute to ethanol-mediated carcinogenesis , including the action of acetaldehyde , the first metabolite of ethanol oxidation and oxidative stress primarily promoted through the induction of cytochrome P4502E Acetaldehyde is toxic and carcinogenic , binds to DNA and proteins , inhibits the oxidative defense- and the nuclear repair system , and prevents DNA methylation . High levels of acetaldehyde occur through increased production in the presence of a hyperactive alcohol dehydrogenase ( ADH1C*1 , 1 ) or decreased degradation in the presence of low active aldehyde dehydrogenase ( ALDH2*1 , 2 ) . In addition , microbes of the upper alimentary tract and the colorectum effectively produce acetaldehyde from ethanol . In addition , ethanol induces cytochrome P4502E1 resulting in an enhanced ethanol metabolism and the generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . ROS may cause lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) with the LPO-products 4-hydroxynonenal or malondialdehyde , which may form highly carcinogenic etheno DNA-adducts CYP2E1 is also involved in the activation of a variety of dietary and tobacco procarcinogens and in the degradation of retinoic acid . Alcohol also influences tumor promotion , such as epigenetics with a change in DNA methylation and histone modification , and affects a variety of cancer genes and signaling pathways . Preventive measures include reducing alcohol consumption , quitting smoking and keeping good oral hygiene . Alcohol consumers - especially when they smoke or belong to genetic risk groups - should be regularly checked for cancer of the upper alimentary tract , for alcohol- associated liver disease , and for breast cancer . Cessation or reduction of alcohol consumption definitively reduces cancer risk .
Ferroptosis suppressor protein 1 ( FSP1 ) is a recently identified ferroptosis suppressor that functions independently of the glutathione peroxidase reductase 4 ( GPX4 ) -mediated pathway . Mechanistically , FSP1 mitigates ferroptosis by catalyzing the reduction of ubiquinone to ubiquinol and vitamin K ( VK ) to hydroquinone , thereby reducing lethal lipid peroxidation through the neutralization of free radicals . In this study , we designed and synthesized 32 compounds to systematically explore their structure-activity relationship ( SAR ) with the aim of identifying potent and novel FSP1 inhibitors . Among these , compound 39 , a triazolothiadiazole derivative , exhibited the most significant inhibitory activity against FSP1 , with an IC value of 35 nM . In vitro cellular assays demonstrated that compound 39 markedly enhanced RSL3-induced lipid peroxide ( LPO ) accumulation and sensitized cancer cells from diverse tissue origins to RSL3-induced ferroptosis . Furthermore , by exploiting the FSP1-mediated reduction of VK , compound 39 effectively augmented ferroptosis in HT1080 cells pretreated with RSL3 and VK through its potent inhibition of FSP1 activity . To the best of our knowledge , this study represents the first pharmacochemical investigation dedicated to the systematic design and synthesis of FSP1 inhibitors . Collectively , our findings underscore the profound impact of compound 39 on tumor ferroptosis , providing a promising foundation for the development of FSP1 inhibitors as potential therapeutic agents in cancer treatment .
The complexity of the mammalian brain must arise from a comparably small number of genes . Proteins with moonlighting functions , i . e . entirely different functions in different compartments or cell types , contribute to multiply functional diversity . Here we review examples of such proteins with moonlighting functions during neurogenesis and in neuronal maturation . These range from cytoskeletal proteins acting as transcriptional regulators or synaptic proteins or exon junction proteins binding to and regulating the cytoskeleton to immediate early gene transcription factors regulating lipid metabolism in the endoplasmic reticulum . We further discuss how proteins with such moonlighting functions contribute to the heterogeneity of organelles shaping cell-type diversity in the brain .
BACKGROUND : Hypertension affects around 28 billion adults worldwide . If not managed properly , it can lead to life threatening conditions . While various pharmacological treatments are available , they are associated with various short- and long-term side effects . Hence it is crucial to explore alternative approaches to complement the standard medical interventions . OBJECTIVE : This systematic review aims to explore the impacts of yogic practices on various physiological and biochemical parameters in hypertensive patients . METHODS : Various electronic databases including PubMed , Cochrane library , Directory of Open Access Journals and Google scholar were systematically searched until October 31 , 2023 to collect relevant data . RESULTS : A total of 15 articles comprising 5 RCTs and 10 clinical trials were identified . The number of participants ranged between 33 and 300 , with Yoga intervention lasting from two months to a year . The analyses revealed that Yogic practices , such as loosening practices , Surya Namaskar , Tadasana , Trikonasana , Paschimottanasana , Shavasana . Anulom-Vilom Pranayama , Bhramari Pranayama , meditation and Yoga Nidra , positively influenced physiological and biochemical markers linked to Hypertension such as autonomic nervous system activity , angiotensin II expression , oxidative stress , lipid metabolism , immune system function and inflammatory gene expression . CONCLUSION : The findings of this systematic review indicate that the Yoga practices have a positive impact on physiological and biochemical markers associated with hypertension which may help in its proper management and treatment . Future studies need to assess additional markers associated with hypertension , such as vasopressin , adrenocorticotropic hormone , gamma-aminobutyric acid and others to enhance the understanding of the mechanism of the effects of Yoga on hypertension . STUDY REGISTRATION : PROSPERO ID : CRD
Breast cancer ( BC ) is one of the major causes of cancer mortality worldwide among women . 5-Fluorouracil ( 5-FU ) is a widely used chemotherapy drug to treat breast cancer , which is unclear that the mechanism of inhibiting BC . Ferroptosis is a mode of programmed cell death determined by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation . The aim of the study was to investigate whether ferroptosis is involved in 5-FU-induced BC cell injury . In the current study , we found that iron metabolism and SLC7A11/GPX4 signaling may play a key role in cell death of BC induced by 5-FU in vitro . In vitro experiments , we found that 5-FU exposure significantly increased the levels of iron and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells . Furthermore , ferrostatin-1 , the ferroptosis inhibitor , inhibited cell death induced by 5-FU . Subsequent western blotting , qRT-PCR , and measurement of various kits , fluorescence staining as well as cellular thermal shift assay , confirmed the results that 5-FU induces ferroptosis by targeting SLC7A11 in BC cells . In conclusion , the results in our study reveals that 5-FU exposure leads to ferroptosis in BC cells via targeting inhibition of SLC7A11/GPX4 signaling pathway , which offers novel insight in pharmacodynamic effect and mechanism of 5-FU in therapeutic avenues of BC .
The increased prevalence of sleep disturbances in modern society is frequently linked to various metabolic disorders , including insulin resistance , obesity , hypertension , fatty liver disease , and cardiometabolic complications . Melatonin , a pineal gland-secreted neurohormone , plays a pivotal role in maintaining the circadian rhythm . It is involved in regulating adipose tissue development , lipid accumulation , browning of white adipose tissue , and activation of brown adipose tissue . The adipose tissue is a dynamic endocrine organ that secretes hormones and cytokines . Recent research has highlighted the significant role of melatonin in the modulation of lipid metabolism , adipogenesis , and thermogenesis in adipose tissues . Circadian rhythms are important in synchronizing metabolic functions with environmental cues , such as light and dark , feeding-fasting states , etc . Irregular sleep patterns , shift work , and exposure to artificial light at night disrupt these rhythms , affecting circadian regulation and compromising metabolic health . Melatonin imbalance due to sleep disturbances results in metabolic dysfunction , increased fat storage , and adipose tissue inflammation . As circadian rhythm and melatonin are both related , a change in circadian rhythm affects the physiology of adipose tissues thereby precipitating metabolic complications through melatonin signaling . This study attempted to understand the mechanisms by which melatonin influences adipose tissue activity , highlighting the role of circadian rhythms in this process . This will enable the development of melatonin-based therapies to mitigate the adverse effects of chronobiological disturbances on the physiology of adipose tissue . Understanding these interactions will provide novel insights for combating obesity and related metabolic conditions .
The rising prevalence of obesity is a global health concern , beginning already early in life . Because of its capability to differentiate into adipocytes in vitro , the murine preadipocyte 3T3-L1 cell line is most commonly used to investigate the development of adipocytes . Previously , the classical differentiation protocol was optimized by adding the PPARG agonist rosiglitazone . However , longitudinal data on the expression dynamics of genes involved in adipocyte lipid metabolism in 3T3-L1 cells following rosiglitazone treatment are still lacking . Thus , our objective was to investigate the expression of lipid metabolism genes during both early and late stages of adipogenesis by inducing 3T3-L1 cell differentiation with rosiglitazone , thereby generating a comprehensive longitudinal dataset . Our data show changes in mRNA and/or protein expression of Pparg1 , Pparg2 , Cebpa , Acaca , Fasn , Cd36 , Cidea , and Fabp4 during differentiation . Their expression increased starting on day 0 with Pparg1 , Cebpa , Cd36 and Fabp4 reaching maximum expression on day 4 and Pparg2 , Acaca , Fasn and Cidea on day 7 of differentiation . Due to the dynamics of their expression characteristics , we suggest them as a set of markers for early ( Pparg1 , Cebpa ) , late ( Pparg2 , Acaca ) , and global ( Fasn , Cd36 , Fabp4 ) stages of adipogenic differentiation . In conclusion , this longitudinal data on adipogenesis markers using a differentiation protocol including rosiglitazone aids choosing genes involved in and/or time points of adipogenic differentiation for future studies using rosiglitazone .
PURPOSE : This study investigates the therapeutic mechanisms of Qiliqiangxin ( QLQX ) capsules in treating Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction ( HFpEF ) . The study aims to understand how QLQX impacts cardiac function and underlying molecular pathways . METHODS : HFpEF was induced in a rat model through unilateral nephrectomy , DOCA pellet implantation , and a high-salt diet . Cardiac function was assessed via M-mode imaging and Doppler flow measurements , focusing on key parameters like ejection fraction and diastolic function . A network pharmacology approach identified active QLQX components and potential targets , followed by comprehensive multi-omics analyses-including transcriptomics , proteomics , and metabolomics-to uncover the molecular mechanisms modulated by QLQX . Quantitative RT-PCR was employed to measure mRNA levels of key cardiac markers , providing further insights into QLQX ' s impact on cardiac remodeling . RESULTS : QLQX treatment significantly improved cardiac function , with notable enhancements in ejection fraction and left ventricular diastolic function . Network pharmacology revealed 530 potential targets of QLQX , with 38 overlapping HFpEF targets . Key pathways identified include cGMP-PKG , adrenergic signaling , and calcium signaling . Transcriptomic analysis showed significant gene expression changes related to inflammation , energy metabolism , and myocardial remodeling , which were reversed by QLQX . Proteomic analysis identified 401 differentially expressed proteins , enriched in pathways such as cGMP-PKG and NF-kappaB signaling . Metabolomic profiling highlighted the role of lipid metabolism and adrenergic signaling in HFpEF , which were normalized by QLQX . In vivo validation confirmed the involvement of the cGMP-PKG pathway , with increased serum NO and cGMP levels , improved endothelial function , and reduced pro-fibrotic markers following QLQX treatment . CONCLUSION : QLQX exerts multifaceted therapeutic effects on HFpEF by modulating gene expression , protein function , and metabolic pathways , particularly through the cGMP-PKG signaling pathway . These findings support QLQX as a promising therapeutic intervention for HFpEF , offering improvements in cardiac function and reversing pathological changes at multiple molecular levels .
BACKGROUND : The incidence of breast cancer ( BC ) increases with age , together with the frequency of comorbid conditions and chronic concomitant medications . However , little evidence is available regarding their impact on response to treatment in the neoadjuvant setting . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The aim of the study was to describe the comorbid conditions and concomitant medications in a population of BC patients and to assess whether the use of concomitant medications modifies the pathological complete response ( pCR ) rates to neoadjuvant chemotherapy ( NAC ) in a causal manner . Patients with invasive stage I-III BC from the French multicenter longitudinal prospective cohort CANcer TOxicities ( CANTO ) ( NCT01993498 ) were included . Chronic concomitant medication intakes during NAC were binary-categorized at level 2 of the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical ( ATC ) classification system . The average causal effect of concomitant medication on pCR was estimated using a doubly robust estimator ( targeted maximum likelihood estimation ) after adjustment on clinical and pathological factors , including notably chronic comorbid conditions . RESULTS : Out of 1420 patients with BC treated by NAC included in the study , 662 patients ( 6% ) had at least one chronic comorbid condition and 355 patients ( 0% ) declared at least one chronic concomitant medication . After causal analyses , several drug classes were significantly associated with pCR : drugs used in diabetes and lipid-modifying agents were significantly associated with increased response to NAC [odds ratio ( OR ) 86 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) 03-27 , P < 001 and OR 58 , 95% CI 16-13 , P < 001 , respectively] , while the use of cardiac therapy and diuretics was significantly associated with decreased response to NAC ( OR 55 , 95% CI 35-84 , P < 001 and OR 43 , 95% CI 21-85 , P < 001 , respectively ) . CONCLUSIONS : The use of several classes of concomitant medication during NAC can be associated with changes in pCR rates . Further research is needed on the interactions between NAC and chronic non-anticancer drug use .
Despite their elevated risk for cardiovascular complications , two-thirds of patients with diabetes-related foot ulceration in this contemporary real-world study were not achieving guideline-recommended goals for low-density lipoprotein cholesterol . Implementation research is needed to identify the barriers and facilitators to optimal lipid management in this high priority population .
OBJECTIVE : To investigated whether post supplementation , C-DHA is less incorporated into plasma phospholipids ( PL ) and triglycerides ( TG ) compared to pre-supplementation considering that these are the two most prominent delivery pools of DHA to tissues . METHODOLOGY : Plasma samples from twenty healthy men and women , matched for age and body mass index , were analyzed . Participants received a single oral dose of 40 mg C-DHA in 2 kinetic studies : 1 prior to and 1 during the last month of supplementation with 2 g/day of omega3 PUFA . C enrichment analyses were performed on plasma samples at baseline , 4 , 6 , 24 hours , 7 days , and 28 days post-tracer intake . Lipids were extracted , and PL and TG were separated by solid-phase extraction . Quantification of carbon-13 eicosapentaenoic acid ( C-EPA ) and C-DHA was performed using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . RESULTS : The area under the curve ( AUC ) for C-DHA in PL and TG did not show statistically significant differences before and during supplementation . However , the AUC for C-EPA in PL and TG increased by 45% and 48% with supplementation , respectively . This finding was unexpected , as our previous analysis indicated a 60% reduction in plasma C-DHA levels during supplementation , accompanied by increased beta-oxidation . Additionally , there were statistically significant time x gender interactions for C-EPA and C-DHA in plasma PL ( P < 0001 ) , with women exhibiting 90% and 139% higher levels of C-EPA and C-DHA over time , respectively . No time x gender interactions were observed for C-EPA and C-DHA in plasma TG , although independent time and gender effects were present . Furthermore , there was a time x body mass index interaction for C-EPA in PL only . CONCLUSION : This secondary analysis suggests that after supplementation with omega3 PUFA , DHA metabolism is stable while EPA metabolism may be slowed due to factors such as DHA inhibition of EPA elongation and/or reduced plasma clearance , which may indicate the tissues needs for DHA are being met .
Neuronal death has long been regarded as a pivotal pathological factor in the developmental neurotoxicity caused by the volatile anesthetic sevoflurane in the neonatal brain , but the detailed mechanism remains controversial . Ferroptosis is a novel type of regulated cell death driven by excess lipid peroxidation secondary to intracellular iron overload , and it is implicated in the pathogenesis of various neurological disorders . Acting as a death messenger , p53 is primarily activated by ATM during DNA damage and mediates various forms of cell death , including apoptosis , autophagy , and ferroptosis . JNK/p38 MAPK are important stress-responsive pathways that can exacerbate intracellular ROS production , thereby linking DNA damage to many pathological conditions such as neurodegeneration and ischemic injury . In our present study , we demonstrated that sevoflurane exposure-induced neuronal death was correlated with intracellular iron overload and lipid peroxidation in HT22 cells , primary hippocampal neurons , and the hippocampi of neonatal mice , consistent with the hallmarks of ferroptosis . Furthermore , we found that sevoflurane-induced neuronal ferroptosis was associated with ATM/p53 activation in response to DNA damage . Additionally , sevoflurane exposure caused JNK/p38 MAPK activation followed by intracellular ROS accumulation , ultimately leading to DNA damage . Mechanistically , ATM/p53 contributed to ferroptosis caused by sevoflurane via two pathways : enhancing iron uptake ( upregulating TFR and downregulating FPN ) and promoting lipid peroxidation through NOX4 , ALOX12 , ALOX15 activation and SLC7A11 suppression . Collectively , these findings demonstrated that sevoflurane exposure induced ferroptosis of neuronal cells in the neonatal brain , triggered by ATM/p53 activation via JNK/p38 MAPK-mediated ROS accumulation and subsequent DNA damage .
This work aimed to improve the peroral bioavailability of capecitabine ( CPB ) by developing and assessing solid lipid nanoparticles ( SLNs ) . SLNs were made using the modified nanoprecipitation method . Particle size , zeta potential , entrapment efficiency , drug loading , in-vitro drug release , TEM , in-vivo pharmacokinetic study , stability study , histopathological evaluation and cytotoxicity study were assessed . The TEM revealed that the SLNs were transparent , with a mean particle size ranging from 06 +/- 09 to 10 +/- 15 nm . The F-3 formulation demonstrated the highest drug entrapment efficiency at 49 +/- The zeta potential and polydispersity index of all SLNs ranged from -53 +/- 17 to 55 +/- 18 mV and from 1356 +/- 11 to 2678 +/- 13 , respectively . The drug entrapment efficiency and drug loading of all SLNs ranged from 45 +/- 36 to 49 +/- 28 and from 75 +/- 64 to 49 +/- 38 , respectively . The CPB-SLNs showed sustained drug release with prolonged plasma retention , delayed Tmax , and extended half-life compared to raw CPB . In vivo pharmacokinetic studies suggest that developed SLNs may enhance therapeutic efficacy by maintaining drug concentrations in plasma for longer periods . Toxicity was observed at 200 mg/kg/day , indicated by changes in clinical biochemistry , organ weights , and histopathology , particularly affecting the liver and kidneys . Therefore , it can be said that these developed SLNs may be among the best preparations for the delivery of anti-cancer drugs for improved therapeutic efficacy . FAU - Jana , Mayukh
Passive permeation through an epithelial membrane may be enhanced by using a class of amphiphilic molecules known as permeation enhancers ( PEs ) . PEs have been studied in clinical trials and used in coformulations with peptides and small molecule drugs , and yet , an understanding of the permeant-PE interactions leaves much to be desired . This manuscript uses all-atom molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations to showcase the effects of sodium caprate ( C10 ) and salcaprozate sodium ( SNAC ) , two commonly applied PEs , on membrane properties and the free energy profiles of five small molecule drugs ( mannitol , atenolol , ketoprofen , decanedecaol , mucic acid ) . Our results show that both C10 and SNAC make the lipid molecules pack more densely , but C10 increases the lipid lateral diffusivity while SNAC decreases it . The change in the lipid order parameter also shows both PEs increasing the order near the lipid heads , possibly due to the dense packing in the membrane . A decrease in the central barrier of the permeation free energy was observed by embedding PEs into a lipid bilayer and SNAC is more efficient in doing so than C Neither SNAC nor C10 has a large impact on the diffusion coefficient of the small molecules . The analysis of the MD simulations revealed that PEs make the membrane tail region more hydrophilic by forming hydrogen bonds with small molecule drugs , i . e . , decreasing the central barrier of the permeation free energy . While this study was only limited to small molecule drugs , this lays the groundwork for future studies to which the effects of the PEs in the permeation of macromolecules and peptides may be observed . FAU - Bernaldez , Mabel
The PPP1R3B gene , encoding PPP1R3B protein , is critical for liver glycogen synthesis and maintaining blood glucose levels . Genetic variants affecting PPP1R3B expression are associated with several metabolic traits and liver disease , but the precise mechanisms are not fully understood . We studied the effects of both Ppp1r3b overexpression and deletion in mice and cell models and found that both changes in Ppp1r3b expression result in dysregulated metabolism and liver damage , with overexpression increasing liver glycogen stores , while deletion resulted in higher liver lipid accumulation . These patterns were confirmed in humans where variants increasing PPP1R3B expression had lower liver fat and decreased plasma lipids , whereas putative loss-of-function variants were associated with increased liver fat and elevated plasma lipids . These findings support that PPP1R3B is a crucial regulator of hepatic metabolism beyond glycogen synthesis and that genetic variants affecting PPP1R3B expression levels influence if hepatic energy is stored as glycogen or triglycerides . FAU - Creasy , Kate Townsend
The small interfering RNA pathway is the primary antiviral defense mechanism in invertebrates and plants . This systemic mechanism relies on the recognition , transport , and internalization of double-stranded RNA ( dsRNA ) . Our aim was to identify cell surface proteins that bind extracellular dsRNA and mediate its internalization in Drosophila cells . We used coimmunoprecipitation coupled with proteomics analysis and found that silencing heat shock cognate protein 70-4 ( Hsc70-4 ) , a constitutively expressed heat shock protein , impairs dsRNA internalization . Unexpectedly , despite lacking a predicted transmembrane domain , Hsc70-4 localizes to the cell membrane via lipid interactions . Antibody blocking experiments revealed an extracellular domain on Hsc70-4 that is essential for dsRNA internalization . Intriguingly , this dsRNA-specific binding capacity of Hsc70-4 functions independently of its chaperone activity . These findings not only highlight Hsc70-4 as a previously uncharacterized and essential component in the dsRNA internalization process but also offer promising insights for advancing RNA interference-based technologies to combat pests and vector-borne diseases . FAU - Fletcher , Sabrina J
In computer models of aqueous solutions of globular protein and lipid bilayer membrane , the orientations of water molecules relative to the directions to organic surfaces at different distances were studied . Distributions of distances between molecular surfaces and angles between the internal vectors of water molecules ( dipole moment , normal vector , HH-vector ) and these directions to organics allowed us to identify molecular layers with fundamentally different orientations . The most probable orientations of the molecules in the nearest layers have been determined and described in detail . It is shown that water molecules in the first layer around the protein most often adopt an orientation that allows them to form donor and acceptor hydrogen bonds with the surface atoms of the protein . Near the membrane , molecules with donor orientations are also most abundant , while acceptor orientations are absent . Instead , orientations describing the interaction of water molecules with hydrophobic regions of the lipid surface are present . Moving to the second and subsequent layers each time radically changes the distribution of orientations , but in all layers except the first , the orientations around the protein and membrane do not differ . The presented method of analysis is not exclusively for water molecules and can be used to study the orientations of any rigid molecules . FAU - Voloshin , Vladimir P
The challenges in developing a tuberculosis ( TB ) vaccine stem from the complex life cycle of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) and various bacterial proteins encoded by approximately 4000 genes . mRNA is easy to design and can accommodate multiple antigens , suggesting that it may be an effective TB vaccine technology . Here , we designed an mRNA encoding Ag85B and ESAT6 that was delivered by lung targeted lipid nanoparticles ( LNP ( lung ) -mRNA ( A-E ) ) , intending to stimulate lung immunity to combat TB . To enhance the vaccine efficacy , we further cofabricated monophosphoryl lipid A ( MPLA ) with mRNA to evaluate the adjuvanted mRNA vaccine ( LNP ( lung ) -mRNA ( A-E ) -MPLA ) . Both vaccines elicited robust CD4 ( + ) T cell response , resulting in markedly locally higher production of IFN-gamma , TNF-alpha , and IL- As anticipated , the addition of MPLA further enhanced the immunogenicity of LNP ( lung ) -mRNA ( A-E ) . However , the Mtb challenge experiment showed that LNP ( lung ) -mRNA ( A-E ) -MPLA neither provided effective protection nor enhanced the immune protection primed by BCG ( Bacillus Calmette-Guerin ) . The subsequent HE staining of the lung revealed that the LNP ( lung ) -mRNA ( A-E ) -MPLA induced pulmonary inflammation , leading to tissue damage . Moreover , the inflammatory cytokines including IL-6 , IL-1beta , and MCP-1 were significantly increased and the MPLA additive exacerbated the inflammatory process . Therefore , the lung targeted mRNA vaccine and MPLA adjuvant synergistically induced lung inflammation and weakened protection from Mtb infection . Thus , this work provides valuable implications for developing targeted lung vaccines : Addressing chronic lung inflammation induced by vaccine systems is critical for lung-targeted mRNA vaccines . FAU - Li , Liyan
The present study used whole-genome data to clarify the taxonomic assignment of two closely related Terribacillus species . The genus Terribacillus includes four species with validly published names , Terribacillus aidingensis , T . goriensis , T . halophilus and T . saccharophilus . The type species T . saccharophilus 002-048 ( T ) ( =IAM 15309 ( T ) =KCTC 13936 ( T ) ) was isolated from the soil in Japan , while T . goriensis CL-GR16 ( T ) ( =KCCM 42329 ( T ) =DSM 18252 ( T ) ) was isolated from the coastal water off the east coast of Korea . Both strains have similar phenotypic and chemotaxonomic characteristics . Anteiso-C ( 15 : 0 ) was the major fatty acid , followed by anteiso-C ( 17 : 0 ) and iso-C ( 15 : 0 ) . There were similar major menaquinones ( MK-7 ) . As determined by whole-genome sequencing , the DNA G+C content of 53 and 66 mol% was found for T . saccharophilus and T . goriensis , respectively , and they were 86% identical in their 16S rRNA gene sequences ( 1 , 421 bp ) . Genomic comparisons showed the average nucleotide identity was 29% and 80% for digital DNA-DNA hybridization . These values exceeded the threshold values for bacterial species delineation . Using the Type ( Strain ) Genome Server , both species were identified as T . saccharophilus . Phylogenetic analysis based on both 16S rRNA gene sequences and whole-genome sequences showed that they form a separate cluster apart from members of other genera . Based on the combined evidence , Terribacillus goriensis Kim et al . ( Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 2007 ; 57 : 1554-1560 ) , Krishnamurthi and Chakrabarti ( Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 2008 ; 58 : 2287-2291 ) is proposed to be a later heterotypic synonym of An et al . ( Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 2007 ; 57 : 51-55 ) . FAU - Hauser , Theresa
Oxygen is crucial for mitochondrial energy production in neurons and is efficiently stored and transported within the hydrophobic core of phospholipid bilayers . Using a diffusive model derived from molecular dynamics simulations , we demonstrate that oxygen storage in a bilayer follows first-order kinetics , which can be effectively represented by an RC ( resistor-capacitor ) circuit . For myelin , with multiple bilayers , oxygen transport is modeled through a ladder network of RC circuits , where oxygen permeation resistance and oxygen storage capacity scale linearly with bilayer count . Meanwhile , the characteristic time constant scales quadratically with myelin thickness , e . g . enhancing the characteristic time constant from 30 ns for one 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine ( POPC ) bilayer to 506 mus for 200 POPC bilayers . This model shows that myelin sheaths serve as compact oxygen reservoirs , dampening sudden oxygen changes due to their slower release kinetics . During increased neuronal activity , the model suggests that myelination extends the ability to sustain elevated oxygen demand , implying a buffering role for myelin against oxygen fluctuations , while the need for vascular response remains critical in maintaining long-term oxygen homeostasis . FAU - Vervust , Wouter
Soil metagenomics using whole genome shotgun sequencing ( WGS ) uncovers microbial diversity and functionality in soils . This study aimed to explore microbial diversity and functional adaptation in soils exposed to fly ash near the Kolaghat Thermal Power Plant , West Bengal , India , using whole genome shotgun sequencing . Understanding how microbial communities respond to such contamination is essential for developing effective bioremediation strategies . Soil samples were collected from the area , designated as BP1 sample selected for detailed metagenomics analysis . The study extracted DNA with a concentration of 2 ng/microl , followed by quality checks and profiling to identify microbial communities . Analysis showed that bacterial communities were dominated by Actinobacteria ( 28% ) and Proteobacteria ( 80% ) , while fungi were primarily represented by Ascomycota ( 50% ) . Among viruses , Negarnaviricota were most prevalent , with the class Insthoviricetes accounting for 60% . Diversity analysis indicated that bacterial populations remained stable , fungal diversity fluctuated , and viral diversity increased , reflecting complex ecological interactions . The presence of key genes involved in lipid and carbohydrate metabolism suggests that microbes adapted to contamination by heavy metals and organic pollutants . The dominance of stress-tolerant Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria highlights their potential role in bioremediation . Future research should explore the potential of these microbes , particularly the role of ABC transporters , in improving pollutant degradation .
BACKGROUND : Sarcopenia , characterized by progressive muscle mass and strength decline , poses a significant health challenge among older adults , especially those with chronic diseases . Our study aims to evaluate the combined diagnostic potential of irisin , 25 ( OH ) D3 , and albumin for sarcopenia in older patients with chronic conditions . METHODS : A cohort of 393 older patients with chronic diseases , including 117 diagnosed with sarcopenia were included . Fasting blood samples were collected , and serum biomarkers ( 25 ( OH ) D3 , albumin , and irisin ) were measured using automated biochemical analyzers and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to evaluate nutritional and muscle-related parameters . RESULTS : The prevalence of sarcopenia was higher among patients aged 80 or older compared to younger age groups in our study population . Strong associations were observed between sarcopenia and osteoporosis , tumors , and risk of malnutrition . Serum irisin , 25 ( OH ) D3 , and albumin levels were significantly lower in sarcopenic patients . Individual biomarkers displayed diagnostic potential , and a combined biomarker test showed superior accuracy . Multivariate logistic regression identified age , osteoporosis , malnutrition , and fatigue as independent risk factors , while higher serum biomarker levels correlated with reduced sarcopenia risk . Positive correlations were observed between serum biomarkers and sarcopenia severity indicators . CONCLUSIONS : This study highlights the potential of irisin , 25 ( OH ) D3 , and albumin as diagnostic and prognostic tools for sarcopenia in older patients with chronic diseases , contributing to early detection and intervention strategies to enhance their quality of life .
Plants have evolved complex defense mechanisms against biotic stressors , such as insect pests , involving chemical , physical , and molecular responses . These mechanisms , including producing secondary metabolites and activating specific signaling pathways , help mitigate damage and ensure survival under pest pressure . Many plants defense-related genes that play crucial roles in regulating defense responses have been identified in common bean . Phosphatidic acid ( PA ) is a vital lipid signaling molecule in plant stress responses , with diacylglycerol kinases ( DGKs ) play a key role in its production . In this study , we investigated the role of the PvDGK gene family in common bean under control , wounding , methyl jasmonate ( MeJA , 100 microM ) , Helicoverpa armigera infestation , MeJA x wounding interaction and MeJA x H . armigera interaction . The larvae of H . armigera were reared under controlled conditions and used for infestation when they reached the fifth instar ( L5 ) . Expression levels of PvDGK1 , PvDGK2 , PvDGK3 , PvDGK5a , PvDGK5b , and PvDGK6 genes were analyzed through qRT-PCR in leaves tissues . All PvDGK genes were upregulated in response to MeJA x H . armigera interaction . Notably , PvDGK2 was the most upregulated gene in the interaction of MeJA x H . armigera interaction , indicating its potential role in defense signaling . These findings provide the first evidence the importance of PvDGK genes in stress adaptation mechanisms in common bean and highlight their potential as targets for improving insect resistance . Future functional studies are crucial to fully elucidating the mechanisms through which these genes contribute to stress resilience and enhance our understanding of lipid signaling pathways in plant defense .
PURPOSE : Liver cancer prognosis is associated with M0 macrophages and lipid metabolism reprogramming ; however , the prognostic role of M0 macrophage-related lipid metabolism genes in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) remains unclear . METHODS : We identified 153 lipid metabolism genes associated with M0 macrophage infiltration in HCC from The Cancer Genome Atlas ( TCGA ) and the Molecular Signatures Database ( MSigDB ) . Prognostic genes were selected , and a model was constructed using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) and Cox regression analyses . The model was validated using the International Cancer Genome Consortium ( ICGC ) database . We assessed the expression levels of prognostic genes by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qRTPCR ) . RESULTS : A prognostic model was developed based on five characteristic genes . Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that the model had good accuracy , with area under the curve values of 796 , 732 , and 728 for predicting survival at 1 , 3 , and 5 years , respectively . The high-risk group exhibited increased sensitivity to common chemotherapy drugs , including sorafenib , dasatinib , and 5-fluorouracil , compared with the low-risk group ( P < 05 ) . Additionally , the high-risk group had significantly more infiltrating M0 macrophages , resting dendritic cells , follicular helper T cells , and regulatory T cells than did the low-risk group ( P < 05 ) . The qRTPCR results confirmed the upregulation of these five characteristic genes in HCC tissues . CONCLUSIONS : M0 macrophage-associated lipid metabolism genes may serve as biomarkers for the prognosis of patients with HCC and as targets for immunotherapy .
Neuroendocrine neoplasms ( NENs ) are a group of highly heterogeneous neoplasms originating from neuroendocrine cells with a gradually increased incidence . Metabolic change is one of the recognized markers of tumor progression , which has been extensively and systematically studied in other malignant tumors . However , metabolic change in NENs has been relatively poorly studied , and systematic reviews are lacking . We reviewed the relationship between metabolic changes and NENs from the aspects of glucose metabolism , lipid metabolism , metabolic syndrome , amino acid metabolism and metabolomics , and discussed the potential therapeutic strategies of metabolic changes for NENs .
Heteromeric acetyl-CoA carboxylase ( ACCase ) catalyzes the ATP-dependent carboxylation of acetyl-CoA to produce malonyl-CoA , which is the committed step for de novo fatty acid synthesis . In plants , ACCase activity is controlled at multiple levels , including negative regulation by biotin attachment domain-containing ( BADC ) proteins , of which the badc1/3 double mutant leads to increased seed triacylglycerol accumulation . Unexpectedly , the Arabidopsis badc1/3 mutant also accumulated more protein . The metabolic consequences from both higher oil and protein were investigated in developing badc1/3 seed using global transcriptomics , translatomics , proteomics , metabolomics , and other biomass measurements . Changes included increased storage proteins and lipid droplet-packaging proteins , increased SDP1 lipase , altered organic acid metabolism , and reduced extracellular lipid synthesis perhaps offsetting the increase in TAG . We present a model of how Arabidopsis adapted to deregulated ACCase , resulting in more oil , and altered flux through pathways that partition carbon and propose targets for future bioengineering of seed storage reserves . FAU - Kataya , Amr
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is an increasingly prevalent condition and a major risk factor for chronic liver damage , potentially leading to steatohepatitis and HCC . It is already known that patients with MASLD show increased systemic and hepatic iron concentrations as well as perturbed lipid metabolism , suggesting the involvement of ferroptosis in the development and progression of MASLD . Consequently , inhibition of ferroptosis represents a potential therapeutic option for patients with MASLD . METHODS : We investigated whether liver parenchymal cell-specific deletion ( LPC-KO ) of the pro-ferroptotic gene acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 ( ACSL4LPC-KO ) reduces MASLD onset and progression in mice . ACSL4LPC-KO and wild-type littermates were fed a choline-deficient high-fat diet ( CD-HFD ) or a Western diet for 20 weeks ( CD-HFD and Western diet ) or 40 weeks ( CD-HFD only ) to monitor MASLD progression and metabolic syndrome development . RESULTS : In contrast to the recently published studies by Duan et al , our results show no significant differences between ACSL4LPC-KO and wild-type mice with regard to the development of MASLD or the progression of metabolic syndrome . Furthermore , no differences were observed in metabolic parameters ( ie , weight gain , glucose tolerance test , hepatic steatosis ) or MASLD-associated inflammatory response . CONCLUSIONS : Our analyses , therefore , suggest that loss of ACSL4 has no effect on the progression of MASLD induced by CD-HFD or the Western diet . The discrepancy between our and previously published results could be due to differences in the diets or the influence of a distinct microbiome , so the results obtained with hepatocyte-specific ACSL4LPC-KO should be taken with caution .
BACKGROUND : The farnesoid X receptor ( FXR ) has been identified as a therapeutic target for metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) . FXR is the major homeostatic regulator of bile acids ( BAs ) with dysregulation of BAs and/or FXR implicated in the pathogenesis of MASH . Synthetic whole-body FXR agonists have been developed to treat MASH . Although beneficial for MASH treatment , these whole-body modulators contribute to unfavorable side effects such as pruritus and an elevation in low-density liporoteins , thereby highlighting the importance of tissue and cell-restricted modulation of FXR in the development of novel therapeutics for MASH to negate potential harmful off-target effects . METHODS : The objective of this study was to determine the tissue-specific role of FXR in MASH development using male and female wild-type ( WT ) , liver FXR KO ( FXRhep-/- ) , intestinal FXR KO ( FXRint-/- ) , and whole body FXR KO ( FXR KO ) mice fed either a low-fat control diet ( CTL ) or a MASH " Fast Food " ( FF ) diet . RESULTS : The results showed , in females , hepatic , but not intestinal , deficiency of FXR was associated with severe liver injury , through increased ALT , ALP , and genes indicative of inflammation and fibrosis when comparing FXRhep-/- versus FXRint-/- . Regardless of sex , hepatic FXR deficiency triggered the activation of neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative canonical pathways . CONCLUSIONS : These data suggest that hepatic FXR is more critical in suppressing liver injury during MASH development in female mice . However , this same trend was not clear in the male cohorts , highlighting sex differences and potential roles for sexual dimorphism in MASH development .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction and alcohol-associated liver disease ( MetALD ) may increase liver fibrosis progression , but data on screening are scarce . We aimed to assess the performance of noninvasive tests ( NITs ) for detecting significant fibrosis in individuals with suspected MetALD . METHODS : This is a cross-sectional study of prospectively enrolled adults identified as overweight or obese . We included adults with suspected MetALD defined by >/=1 of 5 cardiometabolic criteria and self-reported alcohol use within MetALD ranges or lower self-reported alcohol use but with phosphatidylethanol ( PEth ) levels >/=25 ng/mL . Clinical assessment included contemporaneous magnetic resonance elastography ( MRE ) and vibration-controlled transient elastography ( VCTE ) . Significant fibrosis was defined as MRE >/=14 kPa ( or VCTE >/=6 kPa if MRE was missing ) . Analyses included AUROCs . RESULTS : Among 617 individuals screened , we identified 97 ( 7% ) with suspected MetALD . The mean age was 6+/-8 years , 67% were men , the mean body mass index was 4+/-5 kg/m2 , 4% had diabetes , and 8% had significant fibrosis . Fibrosis-4 >/=3 demonstrated good performance for significant fibrosis ( AUROC : 78 , 95% CI : 58-98 , sensitivity 80% , specificity 76% , positive predictive value 17% , and negative predictive value 98% ) . VCTE >/=8 kPa also had good performance ( AUROC : 85 , 95% CI : 66-00 , sensitivity 80% , specificity 91% , positive predictive value 36% , and negative predictive value 99% ) . A stepwise approach using fibrosis-4 followed by VCTE yielded a low false negative rate ( 2% misclassified as low risk ) . CONCLUSIONS : A clinical care algorithm utilizing a stepwise approach with fibrosis-4 and VCTE shows adequate performance in detecting significant fibrosis in individuals with suspected MetALD .
BACKGROUND : Induced pluripotent stem cells induced hepatocytes ( iHeps ) are widely used in modeling human liver diseases and as a potential cell source for replacement therapy . However , most iHeps are relatively immature and challenging to maintain for long-term in vitro culture . METHODS : We optimized the differentiation protocol by addition of a combination of small molecules to inhibit epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) in iHeps ( iHeps EMTi ) , and further characterized their function both in vitro and in vivo analyses . RESULTS : Inhibition of EMT extended the in vitro culture period of iHeps EMTi from day 24 to day In vitro analysis revealed that , compared to control , iHeps EMTi exhibited significantly higher expression levels of hepatic functional markers and enhanced hepatocyte functions , including lipid accumulation , glycogen storage , albumin secretion , and urea acid metabolism . Moreover , the molecular profiles of iHeps EMTi are closer to those of primary human hepatocytes . In addition , the in vivo engraftment efficiency of iHeps EMTi in the chimeric mice model was also improved as compared to iHeps alone . CONCLUSIONS : We established a robust protocol to generate human iHeps with improved function and capable of long-term in vitro culturing via the suppression of EMT . Moreover , those iHeps with EMT suppression have improved engraftment in human chimeric mice .
Dyslipidemia is widely recognized as a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease , given its established role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis . More recently , dyslipidemia has been recognized for its role in the development of cognitive decline and all-cause dementia . Afflicting a significant proportion of adults globally , the treatment of dyslipidemia through the use of lipid lowering agents focuses on mitigating negative cardiovascular outcomes , without respect for the potential role that lipid lowering agents may play in the reduction in the risk of cognitive dysfunction . This review examines the existing literature that assesses the potential role that the prominent lipid lowering agents , statins , ezetimibe , and bile acid sequestrants , may play in the mitigation of late life cognitive decline with a focus on the neuroprotective benefits these agents may have via treating dyslipidemia earlier in life .
Postmenopausal osteoporosis ( PO ) is a prevalent condition that significantly impairs the quality of life in elderly women . While traditionally attributed to estrogen deficiency , emerging evidence suggests that immune dysregulation plays a critical role in its pathogenesis . This study investigates the osteoimmunological mechanisms underlying PO using an ovariectomy ( Ovx ) mouse model . Our findings indicate that Ovx mice exhibit substantial reductions in bone mineral density and bone volume , accompanied by a marked suppression of interleukin-4 ( IL-4 ) and interferon-gamma ( IFN-gamma ) production , particularly from natural killer T ( NKT ) cells . Lipidomic analysis of bone marrow further revealed an upregulation of omega-6 fatty acids , contributing to an inflammatory microenvironment that promotes excessive osteoclast activation . Notably , administration of the glycolipid OCH restored cytokine production and mitigated bone loss in Ovx mice , suggesting its therapeutic potential . These findings highlight the complex interplay between immune responses and lipid metabolism in PO and propose novel therapeutic strategies aimed at modulating immune function to prevent bone loss . This study offers valuable insights into the osteoimmunological mechanisms of PO and underscores the potential of immunomodulatory approaches for its management . FAU - Higuchi , Lilika
Endogenous phospholipids influence the conformational equilibria of G protein-coupled receptors , regulating their ability to bind drugs and form signaling complexes . However , most studies of GPCR-lipid interactions have been carried out in mixed micelles or lipid nanodiscs . Though useful , these membrane mimetics do not fully replicate the physical properties of native cellular membranes associated with large assemblies of lipids . We investigated the conformational equilibria of the human A ( 2A ) adenosine receptor ( A ( 2A ) AR ) in phospholipid vesicles using F solid-state magic angle spinning NMR ( SSNMR ) . By applying an optimized sample preparation workflow and experimental conditions , we were able to obtain F-SSNMR spectra for both antagonist- and agonist-bound complexes with sensitivity and line widths closely comparable to those achieved using solution NMR . This facilitated a direct comparison of the A ( 2A ) AR conformational equilibria across detergent micelle , lipid nanodisc , and lipid vesicle preparations . While antagonist-bound A ( 2A ) AR showed similar conformational equilibria across all membrane and membrane mimetic systems , the conformational equilibria of agonist-bound A ( 2A ) AR exhibited differences among different environments . This suggests that the conformational equilibria of GPCRs may be influenced not only by specific receptor-lipid interactions but also by the membrane properties found in larger lipid assemblies . FAU - Ray , Arka Prabha
BACKGROUND : The mechanisms of chemotherapy sensitivity and toxicity are complex . Metabolomics can better reflect the status of anticancer drugs , tumors , and hosts simultaneously . AIM : To identify metabolites and metabolic pathways linked to varying sensitivity and toxicity to chemotherapy in gastric cancer . METHODS : Mice were implanted with human gastric cancer cells through subcutaneous xenografting , and then treated with the PF ( platinum-fluorouracil ) regimen , with saline serving as the control . Tumor growth was monitored by measuring tumor volume , and body weight was recorded on Days 0 , 2 , 4 , 6 , and Kidney damage was assessed using H&E staining . To analyze differential responses , PF-treated mice were grouped separately according to chemotherapy sensitivity ( high/medium/low via tumor response ) and toxicity ( high/medium/low via body weight changes ) . Serum metabolomics was evaluated using Mass Spectrometry . RESULTS : Platinum-Fluorouracil ( PF ) chemotherapy significantly reduced tumor weight in mice ( 7 +/- 5 mg vs . 0 +/- 5 mg ; 4% inhibition rate ) , although it also induced notable body weight loss and renal toxicity compared to controls . Serum metabolomic analysis revealed significant differences between PF and control groups , involving metabolites like deoxymethacin and dehydrocorticosterone , associated with AMPK and cortisol synthesis/secretion pathways . Further comparisons highlighted : High- vs . low-sensitivity subgroups differed significantly in metabolites , such as palmitoyl-CoA and indoleacetic acid ( linked to AGE-RAGE , insulin resistance , and AMPK pathways ) . High- vs . low-toxicity subgroups displayed significant metabolic differences , including methylguanosine and methylcytidine ( implicated in ferroptosis , ether lipid , and fatty acid metabolism pathways ) . CONCLUSION : The PF regimen effectively inhibits the growth of subcutaneous tumors in nude mice , while causing varying levels of sensitivity and toxicity in tumor chemotherapy . These observed effects of sensitivity and toxicity are linked to underlying metabolic mechanisms .
BACKGROUND : It is debatable whether demographic factors alter the relationship between serum lipid traits and cognitive function . Few data have examined the effects of non-traditional lipid metrics on the lipid-cognition relationship . We aim to test the generality of relationships between lipid traits and cognitive function in Chinese adults . METHODS : Data from 5 , 959 participants were obtained from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( 2011-2020 ) . The cognitive function was assessed via the Mini-Mental State Examination . Effects of traditional lipid metrics ( Total Cholesterol , TC , Triglycerides , TG , Low-Density Lipoprotein , LDL , High-Density Lipoprotein , HDL ) and non-traditional lipid metrics ( TC/HDL , LDL/HDL ) were analyzed . We employed mixed-effect models , Group-Based Trajectory Models ( GBTM ) , and logistic regression to examine the associations between baseline serum lipid traits and cognitive function . RESULTS : As continuous variables , higher TG levels were correlated with higher cognitive scores ( P=036 ) , and similar patterns were found in TC/HDL ( P < 01 ) and LDL/HDL ( P < 01 ) . In contrast , higher HDL levels were associated with lower cognitive scores . Similar trends were observed when lipid traits were analyzed as categorical quartiles , and grouped by gender and age . Non-traditional lipid metrics ( LDL/HDL , TC/HDL ) had higher contributions to the variation of cognitive scores than traditional lipid metrics ( TC , TG , LDL , HDL ) . CONCLUSION : Our study provided evidence for the generality of a significant association between traditional/non-traditional lipid metrics and cognitive function in middle-aged and elderly adults . The factors that vary with genders and age groups do not appear to significantly alter the lipid-cognition relationship .
&lt ; b&gt ; Background and Objective : &lt ; /b&gt ; The liver is a crucial organ in the human body that contributes to metabolic processes , immune function and nutrient regulation . The objective of this study is to evaluate the effects of mulberry leaves ( &lt ; i&gt ; Morus nigra&lt ; /i&gt ; L . ) on rats with acute liver injury induced by CCl&lt ; sub&gt ; 4&lt ; /sub&gt ; . &lt ; b&gt ; Materials and Methods : &lt ; /b&gt ; Twenty-four male albino Sprague Dawley rats ( ~195+/-10 g ) were divided into control and CCl&lt ; sub&gt ; 4&lt ; /sub&gt ; -induced liver injury groups . The treated group received a monthly basal diet of 5 and 5% mulberry leaves . Liver histopathology , body weight , organ-to-body weight ratios and feed intake were assessed . Lipid profiles and serum markers ( glucose , urea , AST and ALT ) were analyzed using SPSS ( Mean+/-SD ) with a significance level of p< &lt ; b&gt ; Results : &lt ; /b&gt ; Total serum cholesterol and blood triglyceride levels were significantly lower ( p<05 ) in all mulberry-fed groups , with the most notable reduction in the 5% group . The 5% mulberry leaf group also observed the best lipoprotein profile . The 5% mulberry leaf diet improved AST , ALT and serum glucose levels in rats with acute liver disease . &lt ; b&gt ; Conclusion : &lt ; /b&gt ; Based on the results shown here , it appears that taking 5% ML daily can help improve liver functioning and shield rats from acute damage caused by CCL&lt ; sub&gt ; 4&lt ; /sub&gt ; . FAU - Abusudah , Wafaa Fauzi
Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that leads to cognitive and functional decline and primarily affects the elderly population . Metabolic alterations , particularly in the amino acid and fatty acid pathways , are increasingly being recognized in AD . However , the role of sex in these metabolic changes remains insufficiently understood , despite evidence suggesting that AD may manifest more strongly in females . This study investigated sex-specific metabolic patterns in AD by analyzing routine and non-routine hematological tests , including amino acids and fatty acid profiles . The results showed that certain metabolites such as citrulline and alanine were frequently altered in patients with AD . Notably , docosahexaenoic acid , dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid , and gamma-linolenic acid levels were exclusively elevated in female patients . Additionally , females exhibited significantly lower Abeta42 and higher gamma-linolenic acid levels than males , with the trend becoming more pronounced during the early stages of the disease . Despite these differences , most metabolic markers did not show significant sex-based variation . These findings suggest that while some sex-specific metabolic differences exist in AD , a larger cohort is needed to confirm these patterns and fully understand the influence of sex on AD-related metabolic changes . FAU - Serafini , Sara
Triplenegative breast cancer ( TNBC ) exhibits a high degree of malignancy and a propensity for metastasis , ultimately resulting in unfavorable patient outcomes . Curcuma phaeocaulis Valeton is a common herb used in traditional Chinese medicine to treat TNBC . Curcumenol ( Cur ) is a natural compound derived from C . phaeocaulis Valeton , the effects of which on breast cancer remain underreported . The present study elucidated that Cur could effectively inhibit the survival ability of TNBC cells and enhance their sensitivity to paclitaxel . Western blotting ( WB ) further revealed that Cur modulated apoptosis and epithelialmesenchymal transition ( EMT ) in TNBC . Findings from animal experiments further validated these observations . In the established TNBC mouse model , Cur was shown to exert an inhibitory effect on tumor growth , effectively attenuate EMT and substantially reduce the incidence of lung metastasis . Integrated analyses using RNA sequencing , WB and reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that Cur markedly downregulated the expression levels of solute carrier family 7 member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) , phosphorylatedNFkappaB and TGFbeta . Molecular docking studies further validated that Cur can establish stable interactions with SLC7A Indepth bioinformatics analysis revealed a positive association between high SLC7A11 expression and reduced diseasefree survival in patients with breast cancer . Additionally , in TNBC cells , Cur was revealed to reduce the mitochondrial membrane potential and promote the accumulation of lipid reactive oxygen species . Subsequent experimental investigations demonstrated that Cur can counteract the inhibitory influence of ferrostatin1 on ferroptosis . These findings strongly implied a potential underlying mechanism , suggesting that Cur may impede the malignant progression of TNBC via the modulation of ferroptosis . In conclusion , the findings of the present study underscore the marked efficacy of Cur in hampering the progression of TNBC by suppressing the SLC7A11/NFkappaB/TGFbeta signaling pathway . FAU - Li , Feifei
Glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPx4 ; also known as phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase ) inhibits cell death , including apoptosis and ferroptosis , by reducing lipid peroxidation . In addition , western blot assays showed that GPx4 protein levels were elevated in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) cells following triptolide ( TPL ) treatment . Therefore , it was hypothesized that HCC cells might develop partial resistance to TPLinduced cytotoxicity through upregulation of the GPx4 protein . To enhance antiproliferative efficacy , the present study cotreated HCC cells with a combination of TPL and RASselective lethal 3 ( RSL3 ) , a wellcharacterized GPx4 activity inhibitor . Subsequent experimental data produced from Cell Counting Kit8 and flow cytometric analyses demonstrated that coadministration of TPL and RSL3 promoted HCC cell apoptosis , elevated intracellular reactive oxygen species levels and induced ferroptosis . These collective findings suggested that cotreatment with TPL and RSL3 may induce both apoptotic and ferroptotic pathways in HCC cells . FAU - Liu , Weixia
Metabolic reprogramming represents a hallmark of malignant tumors , manifested through progressive alterations in nutrient utilization patterns during oncogenesis . As fundamental constituents of biological membranes , essential components of signaling pathways , and critical energy substrates , lipids undergo comprehensive metabolic restructuring in neoplastic cells . This lipid remodeling confers enhanced adaptability to sustain uncontrolled proliferation while promoting aggressive migratory phenotypes . Farnesoid X receptor ( FXR ) , a ligandactivated nuclear receptor responsive to bile acid ( BA ) derivatives and cholesterol metabolites , orchestrates key aspects of lipid homeostasis . Its regulatory network encompasses cholesterol/BA metabolism , fatty acid ( FA ) metabolism and plasma lipoprotein trafficking pathways . Emerging evidence positions FXR as a pleiotropic modulator in oncogenesis , with dysregulated expression patterns documented across multiple tumor lineages and premalignant lesions . This mechanistic understanding has propelled FXRtargeted therapeutics into the forefront of precision oncology development . The present review critically examines the FXRlipid axis in lipidenriched malignancies , with particular emphasis on its regulatory circuitry governing BA flux and FA turnover . FAU - Sun , Yanning
Chimeric antigen receptor T cells ( CAR-T ) immunotherapy has achieved remarkable progress in the treatment of hematological malignancies . However , it encounters challenges including complex manufacturing processes , high cost , and safety issues . Lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) technology , as an advanced gene delivery platform , offers significant advancements to CAR-T therapy through its high efficiency , low immunogenicity , and safety . LNP enablein vivoproduction of CAR-T cells , thereby improving delivery efficiency , reducing the risks of immunogenicity and insertional mutations , simplifying the production process and reducing costs . The scalability and rapid optimization ability of LNP position them as promising candidates for CAR-T cell production . LNP technology is expected to further promote the development of CAR-T immunotherapy and provide safer and more economical treatment options . Therefore , this paper aims to provide a comprehensive and systematic review of the application of LNP in CAR-T therapy . In this review , we initially outline the fundamental design , process , and current challenges of CAR-T therapy . Subsequently , we present the characteristics of LNP , their advantages as a gene delivery vectors , and how they improve the efficacy of CAR-T therapy . Finally , we summarize the current research landscape of LNP applications in CAR-T therapy . This includes enhancingin vitrotransfection of T cells , programming T cellsin situ , facilitating T-cell activation , alleviating the side effects of CAR-T therapy , and combining CAR-T therapy with other immunotherapies . These advancements will aid in the design of mRNA delivery systems based on LNP , thereby promoting the development of CAR-T therapy .
Hypoxia-associated H2S accumulation promotes chemotherapy resistance in solid tumor cells . This study delved into the mechanism by which CBS/H2S signaling is involved in the development of acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) resistance to cytarabine ( ara-C ) under hypoxic conditions . The levels of CBS and H2S in AML cells and ara-c-resistant AML cells were evaluated . Subsequently , the expression of CBS and H2S under normoxic and hypoxic conditions in ara-c-resistant AML cells were further scrutinized . Sh-CBS or sh-THBS1 was transfected into ara-c-resistant AML cells , which were then exposed to 1% oxygen and/or ara-C . The cell viability , apoptosis , lipid metabolism level were evaluated by CCK-8 , flow cytometry , kit and qPCR . Simultaneously , the methylation of THBS1 was detected via methylation-specific PCR analysis . The expression of CBS and H2S is elevated in ara-C-resistant AML cells , rising proportionally with diminishing oxygen concentration . In ara-C-resistant AML cells , hypoxia stimulated cell viability , suppressed apoptosis , augmented total cholesterol and triacylglycerol levels , upregulated the levels of CD36 and CPT1alpha as well as downregulated SCAD and PPARalpha levels , while these effects of hypoxia were all reversed by sh-CBS . Sh-CBS notably decreases the hypermethylation level of THBS1 in ara-C-resistant AML cells . Sh-THBS1 reversed the regulatory effect of sh-CBS on lipid metabolism , cell viability , and apoptosis in ara-C-resistant AML cells . Conversely , sh-CD36 effectively overrode the reversal impact of sh-THBS Activation of CBS/H2S signaling in a hypoxic environment participates in the ara-C resistance of AML cells by facilitating CD36-mediated fatty acid metabolism through mediation of THBS1 methylation .
Background : Thyroid dysfunction is common in older adults and poses diagnostic and management challenges for clinicians . In this narrative review , we present published data focusing on special considerations in the diagnosis and management of hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism in older adults . Methods : A comprehensive literature search of the PubMed and Ovid MEDLINE databases was conducted from January 2000 to December 2024 to identify pertinent articles in English for this narrative review . Results : Due to significant cardiovascular risk if untreated , both overt hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism should be treated in older adults . Findings from observational studies do not support treating older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism with a thyrotropin ( TSH ) <7 mIU/L . However , observational data have demonstrated an increased risk of cardiovascular mortality and stroke in older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism with TSH 0-9 mIU/L and of coronary heart disease , cardiovascular mortality , and heart failure in those with TSH >/=10 mIU/L , suggesting levothyroxine treatment in these individuals should be considered . Data from clinical trials failed to show improvement with levothyroxine in hypothyroidism symptoms or fatigue in older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism compared with placebo . Over- and under-replacement with thyroid hormone is common and should be avoided , as population-based studies have shown associations with adverse cardiovascular and skeletal events . Subclinical hyperthyroidism with a TSH <1 mIU/L should be treated in older individuals as it has been associated with increased cardiovascular risk and bone density loss based on observational data . Randomized controlled trials have shown that long-term low-dose methimazole is a viable alternative to radioactive iodine in older adults with hyperthyroidism . Conclusions : A personalized approach should be undertaken in the diagnosis and management of thyroid dysfunction in older adults . Multiple factors should be considered , including physiological age-related changes in thyroid function , comorbidities , and polypharmacy . Care should be taken to maintain euthyroidism in order to avoid adverse events . FAU - Jasim , Sina
AIMS : Chikungunya virus ( CHIKV ) is the agent of chikungunya fever ( CHIKF ) , a reemerging disease prevalent in tropical regions . With no licensed treatments available , identifying effective antiviral compounds is critical . This study evaluates the antiviral potential of 20 synthetic sulfonamide derivatives against CHIKV . METHODOLOGY : We tested 13 heteroaromatic derivatives containing thiazole , benzimidazole , and benzothiazole ( BTA ) moieties , along with seven sulfonamides bearing ester and carboxylic acid groups . CHIKV-nanoluc replication was assessed in vitro , and molecular docking and infrared spectroscopy studies were conducted to explore interactions with viral proteins . RESULTS : BTA derivatives 6 , 9 , 11 , and 13 demonstrated potent CHIKV inhibition , with EC values between 9 and 1 microM and selective indexes of 8 , 8 , 4 , and 11 , respectively . All compounds acted in the virus post-entry stage , with compound 9 reducing viral replication by 98% . Compound 9 exhibited multi-stage activity , inhibiting CHIKV through virucidal ( 55% ) , pre-treatment ( 69% ) , and entry ( 98% ) mechanisms . Molecular docking suggested strong binding affinities to CHIKV non-structural proteins and envelope glycoproteins . Infrared spectroscopy corroborated compound 9 ' s interaction with the glycoprotein complex and lipids . CONCLUSIONS : These findings highlight BTA derivatives as promising CHIKV inhibitors . Compound 9 ' s ability to interfere at multiple stages of infection suggests its potential for therapeutic development against CHIKF . FAU - Feferbaum-Leite , Shiraz
Immunotherapy has transformed the landscape of melanoma treatment , offering significant extensions in survival for many patients . Despite these advancements , nearly 50% of melanoma cases remain resistant to such therapies , highlighting the need for novel approaches . Emerging research has identified lipid metabolism reprogramming as a key factor in promoting melanoma progression and resistance to immunotherapy . This reprogramming not only supports tumor growth and metastasis but also creates an immunosuppressive environment that impairs the effectiveness of treatments such as immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) . This review delves into the intricate relationship between lipid metabolism and immune system interactions in melanoma . We will explore how alterations in lipid metabolic pathways contribute to immune evasion and therapy resistance , emphasizing recent discoveries in this area . Additionally , we also highlights novel therapeutic strategies targeting lipid metabolism to enhance immune checkpoint inhibitor ( ICI ) efficacy .
Arylacetamide deacetylase ( AADAC ) , a microsomal serine esterase belonging to the polygenic hydrolase family , is predominantly localized in the liver and intestine . It plays a significant role in drug metabolism , lipid metabolism , and the pathogenesis of various diseases . In the context of drug metabolism , AADAC is vital for ensuring the safety of ester-based drugs . Its substrate specificity for short-chain acyl groups , along with genetic polymorphisms among individuals and species , influences drug-related processes . Regarding lipid metabolism , The lipase activity of AADAC is involved in the hydrolysis of cholesterol and triglycerides , lipid mobilization , and the assembly of lipoproteins . The expression of AADAC is regulated by multiple factors . It is associated with metabolic disorders ; for instance , its decreased expression in the liver during obesity may impact triglyceride metabolism , and it may also have an indirect role in diabetes . In cardiovascular diseases , AADAC holds potential as a diagnostic marker . Its role in cancer is heterogeneous , being downregulated in certain cancers while upregulated in others , such as pancreatic and ovarian cancers , where it acts to inhibit cancer progression . Within the nervous system , AADAC may influence neurotransmitter regulation and drug metabolism . Currently , research on AADAC agonists is limited , and the development of inhibitors presents challenges , underscoring the necessity for further investigation in this area .
BACKGROUND : Serum lipids are strongly associated with kidney stones . The atherogenic index of plasma ( AIP ) can be used to quantify lipid levels . However , the nonlinear relationship between AIP and kidney stones is unknown . Hence , our objective was to investigate the nonlinear association between AIP and kidney stones and to identify potential threshold effects and subgroup-specific associations . METHODS : We conducted a cross-sectional study involving individuals aged 18 and above from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) dataset between 2011 and Overall , 9 , 366 subjects were enrolled in this research . AIP was determined using log10 [triglycerides ( TG ) /high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) ] . The outcome variable was a self-reported history of kidney stones . Multifactorial logistic regression , subgroup analyses , interaction tests , restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) modeling , and threshold effect evaluations were used to investigate the connection between AIP and kidney stones . RESULTS : Data from 9 , 366 participants were analyzed , and 936 ( 99% ) subjects with kidney stones were identified . After adjusting for all covariates , logistic regression analysis demonstrated a meaningful positive association between AIP and the renal calculi , with a 33-fold rise in the prevalence of renal calculi for every 1-unit raise in AIP in participants [odds ratio ( OR ) 33 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 06 , 68] . RCS analysis showed an inverted V-shaped nonlinear association between AIP and kidney stones . Among participants with AIP <0 , a notable correlation was observed between elevated AIP levels and a heightened risk of renal calculi . CONCLUSIONS : AIP correlates with kidney stones in an inverted V-shape , suggesting the potential of AIP in predicting kidney stones . However , this relationship is limited , and further studies are needed to validate it .
Upon injury , regenerating skin is metabolically active and requires oxygen for physiological processes related to wound healing . Such processes can be halted in hypoxic conditions common in chronic wounds . Microneedle arrays ( MNAs ) have been demonstrated to improve therapeutic delivery and wound healing . Recently , few studies have explored the use of oxygen-releasing MNAs ; however , they involve complex manufacturing and handling and fail to eliminate cytotoxic byproducts . To address these challenges , biodegradable and mechanically robust gelatin methacryloyl-based MNAs are developed that can penetrate the tissue and release oxygen upon exposure to interstitial fluid and wound exudates . The oxygen release rate and biocompatibility of the developed MNAs with different compositions are evaluated and optimized . Interestingly , in vitro studies demonstrate that the optimized compositions can release oxygen at therapeutic levels and significantly increase viability of chronically hypoxic cells to match that of normoxic cells . In vivo studies further confirm that the optimized oxygen-generating MNAs do not cause any harm or impair healing in a murine model of acute skin injury . Additionally , transcriptomic analysis reveals upregulation of key pathways related to fibroblast motility , lipid metabolism , and a marked reduction in inflammatory signaling , all of which contribute to improved wound healing . The developed strategy can introduce new opportunities in elimination of hypoxia and therefore treatment of chronic wounds .
Membrane-active peptides ( MAPs ) are versatile molecules that interact with lipid bilayers , facilitating processes such as antimicrobial defense , anticancer activity , and membrane translocation . Given that most MAPs are cationic , their selectivity for specific cell membranes has traditionally been attributed to variations in membrane surface charge . However , growing evidence suggests that electrostatics alone cannot fully explain MAPs selectivity . Instead , MAPs activity is also strongly influenced by other membrane biophysical properties , such as lipid packing , phase state , curvature , and the spatial distribution of hydrophobic and charged residues within the peptide sequence . In this review , we summarize the current knowledge on the biophysical determinants of MAPs selectivity . We begin by examining membrane and cell surface electrostatics and their influence on MAPs-membrane interactions , including electrostatically driven peptide conformational changes and lipid recruitment . We then broaden the discussion to include non-electrostatic factors , such as membrane curvature and rheology , which are primarily influenced by sterol or hopanoid content , as well as acyl chain unsaturation and branching . Together , these processes highlight that MAPs selectivity is not governed by any single membrane property but instead emerges from a synergistic interplay of electrostatic , hydrophobic , and topological factors . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1007/s12551-025-01309-
Pulmonary surfactant is a lipid/protein complex crucial to maintain mammalian lungs open , as it facilitates breathing mechanics through a dramatic reduction of surface tension at the air-liquid interface . Intensive research during a few decades has identified many of the molecular actors defining the molecular and biophysical mechanisms of surfactant at the airspaces . Pulmonary surfactant protein SP-B has been undoubtedly identified as the most important and essential molecule to allow for air breathing in the mammalian lungs , as its absence is incompatible with life . We now know that SP-B directs the assembly of surfactant complexes into the lamellar bodies of type II pneumocytes , their secretion , adsorption , and reorganization at the interface as well as the homeostasis of the surfactant layer during different pathophysiological contexts . This review summarizes current models on SP-B structure and biophysical function , supporting how the activity of SP-B may be crucial for the design and production of a new generation of therapeutic products in respiratory medicine .
Fluorescence is one of the most widely used techniques in biological sciences . Its exceptional sensitivity and versatility make it a tool of first choice for quantitative studies in biophysics . The concept of phasors , originally introduced by Charles Steinmetz in the late nineteenth century for analyzing alternating current circuits , has since found applications across diverse disciplines , including fluorescence spectroscopy . The main idea behind fluorescence phasors was posited by Gregorio Weber in By analyzing the complementary nature of pulse and phase fluorometry data , he shows that two magnitudes-denoted as G and S-derived from the frequency-domain fluorescence measurements correspond to the real and imaginary parts of the Fourier transform of the fluorescence intensity in the time domain . This review provides a historical perspective on how the concept of phasors originates and how it integrates into fluorescence spectroscopy . We discuss their fundamental algebraic properties , which enable intuitive model-free analysis of fluorescence data despite the complexity of the underlying phenomena . Some applications in molecular biophysics illustrate the power of this approach in studying diverse phenomena , including protein folding , protein interactions , phase transitions in lipid mixtures , and formation of high-order structures in nucleic acids .
Traditional methodologies to study in vitro biological processes include simplified laboratory models where different parameters can be measured in a very controlled environment . The most used of these practices is cell plate-culturing in aqueous media . In this minimalistic model , essential components of the biological system might be ignored . One of them , disregarded for a long time , is the extracellular matrix ( ECM ) . Extracellular matrix in eukaryotic cells is not only a frame for cells and biological components , but also an active partner of cellular metabolism and participates in several normal and pathological biological processes in a dynamic manner . ECM of eukaryotic cells has a very complex structure . Also , its mechanical properties ( stiffness , viscoelasticity ) depend on the organ it is associated with , and may vary from a very fluid ( plasma ) to a very solid ( bones ) structure . ECM structure and composition are very dynamic and experience temporal structural and topological changes , affecting all the existing interactions . When mimicking the ECM , three aspects are considered : the chemical environment and the physical and structural properties . In this review , we present two lines of research studying the role of the ECM in two biological implications : membrane fluidity heterogeneity and protein retention and aggregation . For these studies , we used biopolymeric matrices with very controlled features to evaluate the two events . We use traditional biochemical techniques and fluorescence microscopy to study the biological systems and traditional polymer techniques ( rheology , SEM ) to characterize the polymeric matrices .
The application of membrane-active antimicrobial peptides ( AMPs ) is considered to be a viable alternative to conventional antibiotics for treating infections caused by multidrug-resistant pathogenic microorganisms . In vitro and in silico biophysical approaches are indispensable for understanding the underlying molecular mechanisms of membrane-active AMPs . Lipid bilayer models are widely used to mimic and study the implication of various factors affecting these bio-active molecules , and their relationship with the physical parameters of the different membranes themselves . The quality and resemblance of these models to their target is crucial for elucidating how these AMPs work . Unfortunately , over the last few decades , no notable efforts have been made to improve or refine membrane mimetics , as it pertains to the elucidation of AMPs molecular mechanisms . In this review , we discuss the importance of improving the quality and resemblance of target membrane models , in terms of lipid composition and distribution , which ultimately directly influence physical parameters such as charge , fluidity , and thickness . In conjunction , membrane and peptide properties determine the global effect of selectivity , activity , and potency . It is therefore essential to define these interactions , and to do so , more refined lipid models are necessary . In this review , we focus on the significant advancements in promoting biomimetic membranes that closely resemble native ones , for which thorough biophysical characterization is key . This includes utilizing more complex lipid compositions that mimic various cell types . Additionally , we discuss important considerations to be taken into account when working with more complex systems .
BACKGROUND : Psychiatric disorders , including schizophrenia , bipolar disorder , and drug-induced psychosis , are associated with significant biochemical and hematological alterations . Antipsychotic medications , particularly second-generation antipsychotics , have been implicated in metabolic disturbances , hormonal imbalances , and hematological changes . OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to evaluate the impact of psychiatric disorders and antipsychotic medications on metabolic and hematological parameters , identifying potential risks associated with long-term treatment . METHODS : A prospective hospital-based study was conducted on 80 psychiatric patients and 15 healthy controls . Biochemical markers , such as fasting blood sugar ( FBS ) , glycated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) , lipid profile , C-reactive protein ( CRP ) , thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) , and prolactin , were assessed . Hematological parameters , including hemoglobin ( Hb ) , white blood cell ( WBC ) count , platelet count , and serum albumin , were analyzed . Statistical comparisons were conducted using IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows , Version 0 ( Released 2015 ; IBM Corp . , Armonk , NY , United States ) , with significance set at p < RESULTS : Psychiatric patients showed higher levels of HbA1c , CRP , low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , and prolactin compared to controls . Second-generation antipsychotics ( SGAs ) were more strongly associated with metabolic dysregulation than first-generation antipsychotics ( FGAs ) . Hematological alterations included lower hemoglobin and higher platelet count in psychiatric patients . CONCLUSION : Psychiatric disorders and antipsychotic therapy are associated with significant metabolic and hematological changes , requiring regular monitoring and preventive strategies .
Rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , including myocardial infarction ( MI ) , stroke , and heart failure ( HF ) , with RA treatments influencing cardiovascular outcomes . This review analyses the cardiovascular effects of methotrexate , leflunomide , hydroxychloroquine , sulfasalazine , and TNF inhibitors ( infliximab , etanercept , adalimumab , and certolizumab ) in RA management , emphasizing their safety and risks in CVD . This narrative literature review was conducted using searches of the PubMed database from inception through January We included meta-analyses , systematic reviews , randomized controlled trials , observational studies , pharmacovigilance studies , and animal studies . Methotrexate offers cardiovascular benefits by reducing inflammation and improving endothelial function . However , it also raises homocysteine levels , which promote oxidative stress and endothelial injury - effects that can be mitigated by folic acid supplementation . Leflunomide ' s cardiovascular effects remain poorly defined , highlighting the need for further research . Hydroxychloroquine may prolong the QT interval , raising the risk of conduction disorders and necessitating monitoring in high-risk patients . Sulfasalazine shows potential cardiovascular benefits by inhibition of platelet aggregation , improved endothelial function , and reduced lipid levels , although more research is needed for conclusive evidence . TNF inhibitors , such as infliximab , etanercept , adalimumab , and certolizumab pegol , reduce inflammation-driven cardiovascular risks but are contraindicated in patients with severe HF ( New York Heart Association [NYHA] classes III and IV ) .
Background : Various leukocyte-to-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) ratios , namely the neutrophil to HDL-C ratio ( NHR ) , lymphocyte to HDL-C ratio ( LHR ) , and monocyte to HDL-C ratio ( MHR ) , have been identified as potential inflammatory biomarkers . Despite this , the intricate relationship between these ratios and Cardiovascular-Kidney-Metabolic ( CKM ) Syndrome has yet to be fully elucidated . This study aims to explore the associations between these white blood cell ratios and the presence of CKM Syndrome . Methods : This cross-sectional retrospective analysis utilized data from 19 , 534 individuals diagnosed with CKM Syndrome , sourced from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) database covering the years 1999- Participants were stratified , and relevant covariates were adjusted during the analysis . Weighted logistic regression models were employed to statistically assess the relationships between the inflammatory markers and the differing stages of CKM Syndrome , with stage 0 serving as the reference point . Results : After adjusting for all the covariates , high levels of three inflammatory indicators were associated with higher odds of having CKM Syndrome stage 1-4 , using stage 0 as a reference . When we assessed the associations between inflammatory indicators with stage 3-4 with stage 0-1-2 as the reference group , we found that inflammatory indicators still increased the risk of higher CKM Syndrome stage . The dose-response relationship revealed that the inflammatory indicators increased the risk of higher CKM Syndrome stage . After conducting subgroup analyses , we found that LHR and education , as well as LHR , MHR , and drinking status , had significant interactions . Conclusion : Elevated NHR , LHR , and MHR are significantly associated with an increased risk of CKM Syndrome across stages 1-
OBJECTIVES : Patients with phenylketonuria ( PKU ) are at increasing risk of metabolic disorders and atherosclerosis . This case-control study aimed to compare the values of atherosclerosis risk factors , including insulin resistance ( IR ) , dyslipidemia , mean of platelet volume ( MPV ) , and systemic inflammation in adult PKU patients . METHODS : Fifty patients with PKU were categorized into two groups : well-controlled ( WC ) ( plasma Phe < 600 micromol/L ) and poorly controlled ( PC ) ( Phe > 600 micromol/L ) . Twenty-five age - , gender - , and BMI-matched healthy individuals were enrolled as the control group . Serum insulin , fasting blood sugar ( FBS ) , and lipids were measured . The systemic inflammatory index ( SII ) and systemic inflammatory response index ( SIRI ) were calculated using the counts of neutrophils , lymphocytes , monocytes , and platelets . RESULTS : Both PKU groups had lower serum cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein , and high-density lipoprotein than the healthy subjects ( p < 001 ) . No significant difference was observed in IR between the PKU patients and the control group . MPV was significantly higher in the patients with PKU compared to the healthy controls . The levels of SII and SIRI were substantially lower in the WC group compared to the healthy control group and the PC group . CONCLUSIONS : All in all , a higher level of dyslipidemia and MPV were observed in patients with PKU compared to healthy individuals . SII and SIRI were significantly lowered in the WC group compared to the PC group and healthy individuals , suggesting the role of adherence to a restricted diet in reducing the risk of systemic inflammation in patients with PKU .
Sosnowsky ' s hogweed ( Heracleum sosnowskyi Manden ) is one of the most dangerous invasive plant , notorious with presence of toxic substances . At the same time H . sosnowskyi phytochemistry from perspective of applications in pharmacology , especially lipids have not been much studied . This study aims to analyse lipids of H . sosnowskyi , especially fatty acids , their composition , metabolism patterns and biological activity . Extraction possibilities of lipids from different parts of H . sosnowskyi have been studied and besides traditional solvents , so called green solvents can be used . In lipid extracts various positional and geometric isomers of fatty acids have been found and their concentrations and profiles differ amongst plant parts . Multifactor statistical analysis demonstrates the contribution of the metabolism of fatty acids in different parts of a plant . H . sosnowskyi lipid extracts demonstrate high antimicrobial activity and cytotoxic activity against cancer cell lines and so plant biomass after eradication can be used to obtain substances with high application potential in the bio-pharma industry .
With the increasing prevalence of high-fat diets ( HFD ) in aquaculture practices , the detrimental effects of HFD on farmed fish have garnered significant attention . Creatine has emerged as a promising green feed additive for aquaculture species ; however , its potential role in mitigating the negative impacts of HFD remains poorly understood . To address this knowledge gap , the present study was designed to investigate the protective effects of dietary creatine supplementation on HFD-induced hepatic lipid metabolism disorders and muscle quality deterioration in juvenile grass carp ( Ctenopharyngodon idella ) . Three experimental diets were formulated : a control diet ( 20% lipid , control ) , a HFD ( 11% lipid , HFD ) , and a HFD supplemented with 2% creatine ( HFD + creatine ) . Juvenile grass carp ( initial weight : 12 +/- 02 g ) were randomly allocated into nine 300-L indoor tanks and fed the experimental diets for 8 weeks . The key findings of this study revealed that Dietary creatine supplementation significantly ameliorated the adverse effects of HFD on growth performance and feed utilization efficiency in juvenile grass carp . Creatine supplementation improved muscle quality parameters in juvenile grass carp . Dietary creatine attenuated HFD-induced hepatic lipid accumulation through enhanced fatty acid beta-oxidation , which was mediated by mfn2-dependent mitochondrial fusion . Notably , this study elucidates a novel molecular mechanism whereby creatine activates mitochondrial fusion through the binding of pparalpha transcription factor to specific sites on the mitofusin 2 ( Mfn2 ) gene promoter . To our knowledge , this is the first comprehensive investigation from a multi-organ/tissue perspective combined with mitochondrial dynamics analysis , providing valuable insights for developing effective nutritional strategies to counteract HFD-induced adverse effects in farmed fish through creatine supplementation .
Euchresta japonica , a medicinal plant in Chinese herbal medicine , lacks comprehensive metabolite data to explain its health benefits despite its long-standing use . Here , widely targeted metabolome at six different tissues of E . japonica was investigated , identifying 2 , 140 metabolites , including flavonoids , phenolic acids , amino acids , lipids , and alkaloids . Among them , 305 were annotated as key active ingredients , and 364 were active pharmaceutical ingredients for nine human disease-resistance , with 206 co-annotated . Metabolic profiles varied significantly across tissues , with medicinally active metabolites highly concentrated in lateral roots and inflorescences , indicating great medical potential . Notably , the lateral root , rather than the main root , was the primary source of root-derived bioactive metabolites . Additionally , KEGG analysis demonstrated that secondary metabolic pathways , especially " isoflavonoid biosynthesis " and " flavonoid biosynthesis " pathways , played important roles . Overall , lateral roots and inflorescences exhibit the strongest potential for disease treatment , particularly for chronic and multifactorial diseases . This study significantly advances our understanding of E . japonica ' s chemical composition and underscores its potential as a valuable resource for novel therapeutic applications , providing a strong foundation for further investigation into its pharmacological properties and drug development prospects .
Intracerebral hemorrhage ( ICH ) is an important neurological disease caused by the rupture of blood vessels in the brain parenchyma , with a high mortality and disability rate . At present , many studies have focused on the injury mechanisms and intervention strategies after ICH . However , there is no effective clinical treatment that can significantly improve the prognosis of ICH patients . Ferroptosis , a regulated form of cell death , has been identified as a significant contributor to brain tissues damage and neurological dysfunction following ICH . The hallmark of ferroptosis is iron-dependent lipid peroxidation , which is closely related to the pathological process of iron overload and oxidative stress after ICH . Exploring the interaction between ferroptosis and pathological injury mechanisms post-ICH will contribute to our understanding the key pathways involved in the ferroptosis-related injury mechanisms and facilitating the discovery of appropriate intervention strategies . On this basis , we present a comprehensive overview of ferroptosis-related brain injury mechanisms ( e . g . , iron overload , oxidative stress , inflammatory response and mass effect ) in the pathogenesis and development of ICH . Following ICH , the degradation of hematoma and iron metabolism provide the fundamental material basis for ferroptosis , and oxidative stress primarily participates in the lipid peroxidation process of ferroptosis via related molecular pathways ( such as the GPX4 ) . By synthesizing current evidence , this article aims to provide a theoretical foundation for future research on therapeutic strategies targeting ferroptosis and related pathways in ICH .
BACKGROUND : The prevalence of obesity , a common metabolic disorder , has been increasing annually , particularly in older adults . This trend poses a significant socioeconomic burden . The uric acid to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio ( UHR ) was defined by dividing UA ( mg/dL ) by HDL-C ( mg/dL ) and multiplying by 100% . According to recent clinical research , UHR has emerged as a potential innovative indicator in metabolic status evaluation , supported by contemporary biomarker research . This cross-sectional study investigated the association between the UHR index and obesity prevalence among older Americans . OBJECTIVE : This cross-sectional research employed nationally representative survey data to Examine the connection between the UHR index and obesity among older individuals aged 60 and above . METHODS : This study utilized data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) spanning 2011 to Individuals who were 60 years old or older were included in the study ( n = 3 , 822 ) . The relationship between UHR levels and obesity ( as measured by a body mass index of 30 kg/m or greater or a waist-to-height ratio ( WHtR ) >/=5 ) was investigated using weighted multivariable logistic regression analyses , with adjustments made for sociodemographic characteristics , behavioral patterns , and clinical covariates , adjusting for sociodemographic , behavioral , and clinical covariates . Restricted cubic spline , ROC curves , threshold analysis , and subgroup analysis were also used . RESULT : After full adjustment for confounders , UHR was positively associated with the risk of obesity as defined by BMI ( highest quartile vs . lowest quartile : OR = 13 , 95% CI = 01-39 ; P-trend < 001 ) and UHR was positively associated with the risk of obesity as defined by WHtR ( highest quartile vs . lowest quartile : OR = 21 , 95% CI = 33-02 ; p-trend < 001 ) . In addition , The restricted cubic spline analysis uncovered a nonlinear dose-response relationship ( P < 01 ) , and threshold analysis found inflection points of -485 in obesity defined by BMI and -503 in WHtR . Subgroup analyses showed that the association between UHR and obesity in older Americans was consistent across subgroups , demonstrating high reliability ( all P-interaction > 05 ) . The AUC for UHR predicting obesity defined by BMI was calculated to be 65 ( 95% CI = 63-66 ) . The UHR predicted AUC for obesity as defined by men ' s body mass index ( BMI ) was 67 ( 95% CI = 65-70 ) . UHR predicted an AUC of 69 ( 95% CI = 67-72 ) for obesity defined by body mass index ( BMI ) in females . The AUC for UHR predicting obesity defined by WHtR was calculated to be 75 ( 95% CI = 72-78 ) . UHR predicted an AUC of 76 ( 95% CI = 72-80 ) for obesity defined by WHtR in males , and UHR predicted an AUC of 83 ( 95% CI = 79-87 ) for obesity defined by WHtR in females . CONCLUSION : The findings demonstrate a notable positive correlation between UHR and obesity in older adults , with this association remaining evident following adjustment for multiple confounding variables . These results imply that systematic evaluation of UHR levels could serve as an effective strategy for proactively detecting populations susceptible to obesity-related metabolic disorders .
INTRODUCTION : Traditional Chinese medicines ( TCMs ) have a wide variety of chemical components and biological activities , which are applied in multiple fields such as medicine , agriculture and food . Clerodendrum bungei ( C . bungei ) , known as " ChouMuDan " in Chinese , is a traditional herb belonged to the shrub of the genus Clerodendrum and used to treat various diseases . Previous studies indicated C . bungei had certain activity in antimicrobial aspects , therefore , the present study focus on exploring its antibacterial effect on loaches infected with A . hydrophila and the mechanism . METHODS : This study first prepared the n-butanol extract of C . bungei , using relux extraction and liquid-liquid organic partition method . Then , the loach was randomly divided into two groups . After the experiment , the livers of loaches from two different groups were dissected for microRNA sequencing . The samples were sequenced in Hiseq Single-End mode to obtain the original data . The Unique Reads were aligned with the non-coding RNA sequences in the Rfam 13 database using Blast to screen out the non-coding RNAs and identify their types and numbers for further analysis of their functions and regulatory mechanisms . The Reads Count value of miRNA was calculated , and the expression data of the conserved miRNA in each sample were sorted out . Finally , seven differentially expressed miRNA that regulate immunity , were selected to verify the credibility of miRNA expression identified by sequencing . RESULTS : Two miRNA libraries of mCK1 and mC4 were constructed , using the Hiseq Single-End mode , to study the effect of n-butanol extract of Clerodendrum bungei Steud . ( BECB ) on loach infected with A . hydrophila . Differentially expressed miRNAs were identified , among which 9 were up-regulated and 17 were down-regulated . The cluster analysis of differentially expressed miRNAs showed that the expression pattern of miRNAs changed significantly after BECB treatment . KEGG enrichment analysis was carried out on target genes , and the top 30 most significantly enriched pathways were selected by p-value . The result suggested the immune-related pathways mTOR signaling pathway and RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathway may critical for resistance to A . hydrophila infection in loach after BECB treatment , together with RT-qPCR results . DISCUSSION : In this study , pathways related to carbohydrate and lipid metabolism were enriched after infection with A . hydrophila for 24 h , which may be because the proliferation and differentiation of immune cells require a large number of nutrients to provide energy . This indicates that pathogens did not appear in the loach until exposure to A . hydrophila for 24 h . After infection , both autophagy and mTOR signaling pathway are activated to promote the proliferation and differentiation of immune cells , induce the production of type I IFN and inflammatory factors , and then trigger innate and specific immunity . These findings could provide a basis for the research and development of antibacterial agents based on C . bungei and the application of biopesticides in aquaculture , especially in loach farming .
BACKGROUND : Fatty liver index ( FLI ) calculated by using body mass index , waist circumference and levels of triglycerides and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase is a noninvasive biomarker for diagnosis of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) , which is one of the high-risk conditions of atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases . To compare the effects of pemafibrate and omega-3 fatty acid ethyl on FLI , we conducted a sub-analysis study of the Pemafibrate Reduction of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins compared with Omega-3 fatty acid ethyl for Unmet needs in Dyslipidemic patients on target to apoB-48 ( PROUD48 ) study . METHODS : 57 participants in the pemafibrate 4 mg per day treatment group ( PEMA , men/women : 37/20 , mean 64 years ) and 60 participants in the omega-3 fatty acid ethyl 4 g per day treatment group ( OMEGA-3 , men/women : 35/25 , mean 63 years ) in the PROUD48 study were included in the present study . Changes in FLI and prevalence of MASLD from baseline to week 16 in PEMA and OMEGA-3 were investigated . RESULTS : Median FLI was significantly decreased by both PEMA ( 7 to 6 , P < 001 ) and OMEGA-3 ( 8 to 5 , P < 001 ) . There was a significant difference in change in FLI between PEMA and OMEGA-3 ( -3 +/- 1 vs . -5 +/- 4 , P < 001 ) . The proportions of MASLD estimated by FLI ( baseline/week 16 ) in PEMA and OMEGA-3 were 0/4% ( P = 002 ) and 0/0% ( P = 582 ) , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : Pemafibrate is superior to omega-3 fatty acid ethyl in lowering effects of FLI and MASLD in patients with dyslipidemia receiving statin treatment , suggesting that pemafibrate is a beneficial agent for hypertriglyceridemia and reduction of the risk for MASLD .
BACKGROUND : This study aimed to evaluate the impact of combining high-intensity statins with CETP inhibitors on lipid levels , as well as to explore their potential clinical significance . METHODS : We conducted a comprehensive search of relevant studies in the PubMed , Embase , Cochrane Library , and Web of Science databases . The Cochrane Risk of Bias Tool RoB 0 was employed to evaluate the quality of the included studies . Statistical analyses were carried out using STATA 15 software , with primary outcomes being high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) . RESULTS : Out of 2 , 552 records , 7 studies were included in the final analysis . The findings revealed that the combination of high-intensity statins with CETP inhibitors significantly raised HDL-C levels ( SMD 47 [77 , 18] , p < 001 ) and lowered LDL-C levels ( SMD -75 [-19 , -31] , p < 001 ) . CONCLUSION : Compared to statin monotherapy , the combination of high-intensity statins and CETP inhibitors resulted in a more pronounced increase in HDL-C and ApoAI , while reducing LDL-C , triglycerides ( TG ) , and ApoB levels , without increasing the incidence of adverse events .
BACKGROUND : Dyslipidemia , characterized by high levels of lipids in the blood , can influence bone metabolism , interfere with the osseointegration of dental implants , and favor peri-implant complications . This systematic review aimed to analyze whether elevated serum levels of total cholesterol and its fractions , as well as triglycerides , constitute a risk factor for peri-implant complications . MATERIAL AND METHODS : This systematic review was conducted by PRISMA and was registered in PROPSPERO under CRD number The search strategy was performed in the Medline ( Pubmed ) , Embase , Scopus , Web of Science , Cochrane Library , and LLACS/BVS databases . Additional searches were conducted in the gray literature , as well as manual searches . Experimental and observational studies of patients undergoing dental implants , in which their lipid levels were analyzed and in which the outcomes of peri-implantitis , implant loss , or bone resorption were evaluated . The assessment of methodological quality was performed using the JBI Instrument , and the assessment of the certainty of the evidence was performed using GRADE . RESULTS : The database search strategy resulted in 2 , After removing duplicates and reading titles and abstracts , 48 were read in full . Of these , eight were included in the systematic review , in addition to three articles included from additional searches , totaling 11 studies , and a total of 1704 patients constituted the sample . Nine studies identified a significant association between elevated lipid levels and peri-implant complications . The meta-analysis demonstrated a strong association between peri-implantitis and dyslipidemia ( OR 36 ; 95% CI : 85-46 ; P< 00001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Dyslipidemia was identified as a risk factor for peri-implant complications . This can be explained by the interference that high levels of cholesterol and its fractions can cause in bone metabolism , making it deficient due to an exacerbated inflammatory response . Cholesterol and triglyceride levels must be assessed and controlled preoperatively to reduce peri-implant complications . Key words : Dyslipidemias , Hyperlipidemias , Dental implants , Peri-Implantitis , Systematic Review .
Background : Multiple myeloma ( MM ) is a hematologic malignancy closely associated with diets and metabolic disorders , showing an increasing incidence trend . Genome-wide association studies ( GWAS ) contribute to exploring the causal relationships between diets , metabolites , and MM , thereby revealing biological mechanisms underlying cancer progression . Methods : This study included large-scale GWAS data for two diets , four metabolomics , and MM . The two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis was conducted to assess causalities between these dietary patterns , metabolites , and MM . The MR analysis primarily employed the inverse variance weighted ( IVW ) method , supported by multiple sensitivity analysis and reverse MR analysis to validate significant associations . Mediation analysis identified specific metabolites mediating the causal relationships between diets and MM . Results : Univariate MR analysis suggested that coffee consumption ( ORIVW = 72 ; 95% CI : 21-10 ; PIVW = 015 , P_fdr = 022 ) , decaffeinated coffee consumption ( ORIVW = 10 ; 95% CI : 33-87 ; PIVW = 022 , P_fdr = 022 ) , ground coffee consumption ( ORIVW = 04 ; 95% CI : 25-02 ; PIVW = 019 , P_fdr = 022 ) , instant coffee consumption ( ORIVW = 13 ; 95% CI : 95-34 ; PIVW = 002 , P_fdr = 008 ) , and coffee max liking ( ORIVW = 94 ; 95% CI : 23-03 ; PIVW = 015 , P_fdr = 035 ) were associated with increased MM risk . Metabolomic MR analysis identified 19 plasma metabolites , 1 blood and urine biomarker , and 4 plasma lipids with significant association with MM . Mediation analysis indicated that hippurate and cinnamoylglycine mediated 55% ( P < 001 ) and 85% ( P = 002 ) of the genetically predicted effect of coffee consumption on MM risk , respectively . Cinnamoylglycine contributed 63% ( P = 042 ) to the total causal effect of ground coffee consumption on MM . Hippurate ( 43% , P < 001 ) , 3-hydroxyhippurate ( 39% , P = 031 ) , and cinnamoylglycine ( 79% , P = 010 ) mediated the genetically predicted impact of instant coffee consumption on MM risk . Metabolic pathway analysis suggested that glutathione metabolism significantly contributes to MM pathogenesis ( P = 002 , FDR < 05 ) . Conclusions : Our findings support the adverse causal effects of various coffee consumption on MM risk , identifying hippurate , 3-hydroxyhippurate , and cinnamoylglycine as key mediators , driving the relationship potentially through the glutathione metabolism pathway . FAU - Lin , Shichong
Across tissues , tissue-resident memory T cells have been defined as cells that express CD69 on their cell surface but not sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 1 ( S1PR1 ) , the receptor for the tissue-egress signal sphingosine-1-phosphate ( S1P ) . It is less clear whether CD69-negative memory T cells are also tissue-resident . Here , we compare transcriptomes and T cell receptor repertoires of individual CD4 and CD8 memory T cells from paired blood and bone marrow samples from three human donors . CD69 ( - ) memory T cells of blood and bone marrow share transcriptionally defined clusters , characterized by signature genes and reflecting their imprinting during original activation . However , cells of related clusters from blood and bone marrow have different TCR repertoires , evidence that they represent distinct compartments of memory and indicating that the CD69 ( - ) memory T cells are residents of the bone marrow . Interestingly , the surface CD69 ( - ) memory T cells of bone marrow do transcribe the CD69 gene and express S1PR1 , suggesting that they are blindfolded to the perception of the egress signal sphingosine-1-phosphate by dimerization and internalization of CD69 and S1PR1 , maintaining them in the bone marrow .
Autophagy-tethering compounds ( ATTECs ) as a new targeted protein degradation technology could directly bind targets to LC3 ( a key autophagosome-associated protein ) and subsequently result in the degradation of targets via the autophagolysosomal pathway . Herein , we developed a new LC3 ligand screening strategy using an NIR fluorescent probe with both pH-sensitive and LC3-targeted features . The presence of both the probe and a potential LC3 ligand leads to competitive binding to LC3 in cells and hinders the probe from entering and being activated in acidic lysosomes via the autophagy pathway . Notably , LD5 , an in-house compound of our lab , was screened out as a potential LC3 ligand by the strategy , and its capacity of binding to LC3 was further verified by SPR technology . By using LD5 as the LC3 binding moiety , two ATTECs were synthesized , which exhibited significant activities in degrading PCSK9 and lipid droplets , respectively , and further validated the feasibility of our LC3 ligand screening strategy . FAU - Xie , Xiaohao
Cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) have the highest mortality rates worldwide . To reduce the risk of CVDs , dietary interventions are a potential approach . This review explores the potential of mycoprotein , a fungal-derived protein , as a dietary approach for maintaining cardiovascular health . A comprehensive literature search was conducted using various databases ( Web of Science , Medline , Scopus , Google Scholar , EBSCO , PubMed ) and government websites ( WHO , CDC ) to identify relevant studies . Mycoprotein provides essential amino acids with high bioavailability ( 996 ) while containing minimal saturated fat ( 5 grams ) and high fiber ( 6 grams ) . Clinical studies have shown that mycoprotein consumption reduces cholesterol , improves lipid profiles , and potentially lowers blood pressure , possibly due to its impact on gut microbiota ( GM ) and short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) production . The intestinal fermentation of mycoprotein fiber increases the abundance of beneficial gut bacteria , binds to Gprotein coupled receptors like GPR41 and 43 to promote vasodilation , inhibits the angiotensinconverting enzyme , and reduces hepatic cholesterol production . Chitin and beta-glucan , the primary fiber of mycoprotein , exhibit anti-inflammatory properties that may contribute to overall cardiovascular health . The study concludes that mycoprotein is a sustainable and nutritious alternative , and its consumption promotes cardiovascular health and reduces CVD risks .
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE : In stroke , reperfusion of blood to the cerebral ischemic area following sustained ischemia further exacerbates tissue damage , identified as cerebral ischemia and reperfusion ( I/R ) insult . Ischemic post-conditioning ( IPoC ) appears to offer benefits against I/R injury . The cascade of androgen receptors ( ARs ) has a vital role in cerebral stroke ; however , its neurodefensive function in IPoC is unclear . This investigation aimed to explore the involvement of ARs in IPoC in cerebral I/R insult in rats . METHODS : Global cerebral ischemia/reperfusion ( GCI/R ) insult in experimental animals was provoked by 10 minutes of obstruction of the bilateral carotid arteries after reperfusion for 24 hours . IPoC was carried out by providing a triad of I/R insults with a gap of 10 minutes of GCI after 24 hours of reperfusion . Lateral push , inclined beam , rota rod , hanging wire , and Morris-water maze experimentations were conducted on animals to determine motor control and cognitive functions ( learning and memory ) . Cerebral oxidative damage markers ( raised lipid peroxidation and reduced glutathione levels ) , acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) activity , inflammatory indicators ( interleukin-6 , interleukin-10 , tumor necrosis factor-alpha , and myeloperoxidase ) , infarction , and histopathological alterations were also assessed . RESULTS : Animals with I/R exhibited reduced motor function and memory along with raised cerebral oxidative damage , AChE activity , inflammation , infarction , and histopathological alterations . IPoC after ischemic events recuperated the damaging outcomes of I/R insult . 60 minutes before cerebral ischemia , pretreatment with testosterone mimicked the neurodefensive outcomes of IPoC . However , neuroprotective outcomes developed by IPoC were diminished by flutamide ( ARs antagonist ) pretreatment . CONCLUSION : IPoC may offer neuroprotective outcomes in I/R insult by modulation of ARmediated pathway .
BACKGROUND : Pulsatillae radix ( PR ) , a medicinal root plant and a well-known Chinese herbal remedy , is primarily used for its heat-clearing , detoxifying , blood-cooling , and antiinflammatory properties . This study aimed to investigate the underlying mechanisms by which PR exerts therapeutic effects on ulcerative colitis ( UC ) through an integrated approach , combining ultra-high performance liquid chromatography with quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry ( UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS ) , network pharmacology , and molecular docking . METHODS : The constituents of PR were systematically analyzed using UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS . Potential targets of active components were identified via the SwissTargetPrediction and PharmMapper databases , while UC-related disease targets were retrieved from GeneCard , OMIM , and other relevant databases . Overlapping targets between PR and UC were determined using Venn analysis . Cytoscape software facilitated the construction of the compound-disease-target network . The STRING database was employed to generate a protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network for the intersecting targets , and core targets were identified using the CytoNCA plugin . Gene Ontology ( GO ) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) pathway enrichment analyses were conducted using the DAVID platform . Lastly , molecular docking of key components with target proteins was carried out using PyMOL . RESULTS : A total of 27 active compounds , 237 drug targets , and 4622 disease targets were identified . Intersection analysis revealed 141 shared targets , while the PPI network identified 10 hub targets . GO and KEGG enrichment analyses indicated that the hub targets were primarily associated with phosphorylation , cytoplasmic functions , nuclear receptor activity , as well as pathways related to the advanced glycation end products-receptor for advanced glycation end products ( AGE-RAGE ) signaling , T cell receptor ( TCR ) signaling , lipid and cholesterol metabolism , and various cancer-related pathways . Molecular docking experiments demonstrated that ( + ) - pinoresinol , cichoric acid , beta-ecdysone , pulsatilla saponin D , 23-HBA , and AB4 exhibited stable binding to PIK3R1 , TLR4 , and ESR1 , with AB4 forming the most stable complex with ESR CONCLUSION : This study established a rapid and effective UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS/MS method for characterizing the main chemical components of PR . Using network pharmacology and molecular docking , the active components and potential mechanisms of PR involved in the UC treatment were investigated , providing a foundation for future experimental studies on pharmacodynamics and the underlying mechanisms .
Fibroblast Growth Factor 2 ( FGF2 ) is a potent mitogen secreted from mammalian cells through an unconventional secretory pathway . This process is mediated by direct translocation of FGF2 across the plasma membrane into the extracellular space . It requires several components that are asymmetrically distributed between the two leaflets of the plasma membrane . At the inner plasma membrane leaflet , FGF2 undergoes sequential interactions with the Na , K-ATPase , Tec kinase , and the phosphoinositide PI ( 4 , 5 ) P . While the Na , K-ATPase , and Tec kinase are auxiliary factors , interactions of FGF2 with PI ( 4 , 5 ) P trigger the core mechanism of FGF2 membrane translocation , inducing FGF2-oligomerization-dependent formation of lipidic membrane pores . At the outer plasma membrane leaflet , membrane-inserted FGF2 oligomers are captured and disassembled by Glypican-1 ( GPC1 ) , resulting in translocation of FGF2 to the cell surface . In a cellular context , a single FGF2 membrane translocation event occurs within 200 milliseconds . In contrast , in an in vitro system , which uses a fully reconstituted liposomal inside-out system with FGF2 added from the outside and luminal encapsulation of high-affinity heparin molecules , FGF2 membrane translocation takes several minutes . Here , we hypothesize that the observed difference is , at least in part , due to the asymmetrical membrane lipid distribution and the spatial organization of the FGF2 translocation machinery in native plasma membranes . We suggest that the molecular machinery mediating FGF2 membrane translocation assembles in ordered nanodomains , characterized by sphingomyelin ( SM ) , cholesterol and phosphoinositide PI ( 4 , 5 ) P coupled together . The transbilayer asymmetry of these lipids likely plays a crucial role in regulating the thermodynamics and kinetics of FGF2-induced membrane pore formation . Therefore , succeeding in reconstituting the FGF2 translocation machinery in artificial membranes with an asymmetric transbilayer distribution of SM , PI ( 4 , 5 ) P and other membrane lipids may reveal a direct impact on pore-opening kinetics . Similarly , disrupting lipid asymmetry in cells may significantly impact FGF2 secretion rates , a finding that would underscore the importance of the spatial organization of lipids in membrane dynamics . Testing this hypothesis may advance our understanding of how membrane asymmetry and ordered lipid nanodomains regulate critical biological processes , such as the unconventional secretion of FGF FAU - Lolicato , Fabio
BACKGROUND : There are more and more Alzheimer ' s patients . The formation of plaques of Abeta ( 1-42 ) in the brain is one of the main causes of Alzheimer ' s disease . Corn oligopeptides have natural antioxidant effects . It is aimed to develop functional corn oligopeptides to prevent Alzheimer ' s disease through antioxidation . METHODS : According to previous laboratory studies , peptides of corn oligopeptides were screened by biological activity score and ADMET prediction , and molecular docking technology was used to screen the peptides that had high binding energy with Abeta ( 1-42 ) . The protective effects of the selected peptides were evaluated against oxidative stress in Abeta ( 1-42 ) -injured SHSY5Y cells , and the mechanism of the effects in the protein kinase A ( PKA ) /cAMP-response element binding protein ( CREB ) /brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) -mediated signaling pathway was investigated , which is closely related to neurodegenerative and neurological diseases . RESULTS : The results showed that three peptides ( GL , FA and FQ ) significantly increased the cell viability of Abeta ( 1-42 ) -induced cells and mitochondrial intensity and decreased extracellular lactate dehydrogenase content . They also improved intracellular oxidative stress caused by Abeta ( 1-42 ) , including reducing the overproduction of intracellular reactive oxygen species , and increasing the content of lipid oxidation , superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase . In addition , western blot showed that treatment with GL , FA and FQ significantly increased the expression of PKA , CREB and BDNF , whereas cells injured with Abeta ( 1-42 ) decreased the expression of these signaling proteins . CONCLUSION : These results suggest that peptides of corn oligopeptides can effectively improve Abeta ( 1-42 ) -induced Alzheimer ' s disease , and may improve oxidative stress response to protective nerve cells by up-regulating the protein expression of the PKA/CREB/BDNF signaling pathway . ( c ) 2025 Society of Chemical Industry .
Using a synchronisation protocol based on estradiol esters and prostaglandin , established in cattle since the 1970s , we implemented 24 or 48-h intervals between hormone administration and timed artificial insemination ( TAI ) . This study compared two short-duration TAI protocols using estradiol benzoate ( EB ) and cypionate ( EC ) as ovulation inducers . A total of 172 Girolando female cows were selected after ovarian ultrasonographic evaluation and received 500 mug of prostaglandin F2alpha ( PGF ) at the start of the treatment ( D0 ) . The inclusion criterion for females in the study was the presence of a corpus luteum measuring >/= 14 mm and at least one follicle with a diameter between 8 and 20 mm . The cows were randomly sorted into two treatment groups . The EB group received 2 mg of EB 24 h after PGF ( D1 ) , and TAI was performed 24 h later ( D2 ) . The EC group received 2 mg estradiol cypionate simultaneously with PGF , and TAI was performed 48 h later . Pregnancy was diagnosed 30 days after AI using transrectal ultrasonography . Experiment I evaluated follicular dynamics in 18 females ( EB : n = 9 ; EC : n = 9 ) by analysing the follicular growth rate , pre-ovulatory follicle ( POF ) diameter , ovulation timing and ovulation rate . No statistically significant differences were observed ( p > 05 ) , with a 8% ovulation rate in both treatments . Experiment II compared the conception rates in 172 females ( EB : n = 85 ; EC : n = 87 ) . The overall conception rate was 2% , with no significant difference between the treatments ( EB : 1% ; EC : 3% ) . However , cows with a body condition score < 0 tended to have higher conception rates with EC than with EB ( 1% vs . 2% ; p = 06 ) . Cows with POF >/= 10 mm at D0 had significantly higher conception rates with EC than with EB ( 3% vs . 0% ; p = 03 ) . Both protocols were equally effective ; however , EC was more advantageous for cows with a POF >/= 10 mm at treatment initiation .
AIMS : Heart transplantation ( HTX ) is the treatment of choice for advanced heart failure . Still , long-term survival needs to be improved . Recent studies showed that obesity and type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) as well as impaired renal and liver function are associated with mortality post-HTX . There are many open questions including ( i ) optimal metabolic surveillance post-transplant , ( ii ) association of metabolic deterioration and cardiac function , ( iii ) association with hepatic and renal deterioration , and ( iv ) optimal timing and choice of treatment . The METAB-HTX trial will address these open questions , hypothesizing that metabolic deterioration post-HTX is associated with impaired cardiac function and survival . METHODS AND RESULTS : METAB-HTX is a prospective , longitudinal cohort study , enrolling 400 patients post-HTX in a period of 5 years . Time-series , deep cardiac , and metabolic phenotyping will be conducted . Cardiac function will be analysed by echocardiography as well as serial cardiac magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy ( cMRI/MRS ) . Coronary angiography will be conducted to assess both macrovascular and microvascular coronary allograft vasculopathy ( CAV ) . To evaluate allograft rejection , endomyocardial biopsies will be taken . Metabolic alterations will be investigated by ( i ) glucometabolic phenotyping including serial oral glucose tolerance tests , homeostasis model assessment , T2D endotyping , and muscle biopsies in selected cases ; ( ii ) lipid disorders will be evaluated by classical lipid measurements in combination with evaluation of HDL function , plasma membrane lipid composition , fluidity analyses of circulating cells and MRI/MRS for adipose tissue distribution , and ectopic fat analysis . Kidney and liver function and structural alterations will be evaluated . Complex analyses will be conducted to evaluate ( i ) myocardial substrate utilization and energy metabolism by cardiac and circulating cell respirometry , ( ii ) impact of genetic ( including immunogenetic ) and transcriptomic factors by third- and fourth generation sequencing ( short- and long-read sequencing ) , ( iii ) circulating signatures of future neoplasia by single-cell sequencing of circulating leucocytes , and ( iv ) evaluation of thromboinflammation in association with heart transplant events . The primary endpoint will be the incidence of heart transplant events , defined as worsening of systolic or diastolic left ventricular function , CAV , allograft rejection , worsening of kidney function , metabolic liver disease , infections , neoplasia , deterioration of glucose and lipid metabolism . Secondary outcomes include hospitalizations related to primary endpoints , re-HTX or ventricular assist device , cardiovascular mortality , and all-cause mortality . CONCLUSIONS : The METAB-HTX trial will identify early metabolic alterations potentially impairing cardiac function and outcome of HTX patients . This will identify patients at risk and allow precise planning of interventional trials to treat metabolic alterations post-HTX and improve outcome .
BACKGROUND : Different stroke mechanisms present with distinct imaging characteristics and prognosis . Multiparametric MRI can characterize these variations and may contribute to stroke secondary prevention . PURPOSE : To investigate the stroke mechanism subtypes and prognosis in patients with symptomatic intracranial atherosclerosis using multiparametric MRI . STUDY TYPE : Retrospective . POPULATION : Two hundred and seventeen ischemic stroke patients ( 147 males ; age 5 +/- 7 years ) with intracranial atherosclerosis . FIELD STRENGTH/SEQUENCE : 3-T , dynamic susceptibility contrast perfusion-weighted imaging ( DSC-PWI ) ; High-resolution vessel wall imaging ( HR-VWI ) : three-dimensional ( 3D ) T1-weighted Sampling Perfection with Application optimized Contrast using different flip angle Evolution ( SPACE ) and contrast-enhanced T1-SPACE . ASSESSMENT : All patients underwent multiparametric MRI within 7 days of stroke symptom onset . The stroke mechanisms included branch occlusive disease ( BOD ) , artery-to-artery embolism , hypoperfusion , and mixed mechanisms . The following imaging characteristics were assessed by three radiologists independently . HR-VWI plaque characteristics included plaque area , lipid area , lipid ratio , occlusive thrombus , degree of stenosis , plaque burden , enhancement ratio , remodeling index , and intraplaque hemorrhage ( IPH ) . The mean transit time-Alberta Stroke Program Early Computed Tomography score ( MTT-ASPECTS ) based on DSC-PWI was used to evaluate perfusion impairment . During a median follow-up period of 15 months , the correlation between different stroke mechanisms and prognosis was analyzed . STATISTICAL TESTS : Chi-squared or Fisher ' s exact , Kruskal-Wallis H-tests , multivariate logistic regression , and Kaplan-Meier curves . All p-values were corrected by Bonferroni correction , and p-values < 05 were considered statistically significant . RESULTS : Mixed mechanism was the most common subtype ( 7% ) . Significant differences were observed in perfusion impairment , degree of stenosis , plaque burden , enhancement ratio , IPH , and remodeling among stroke mechanisms . Of these characteristics , MTT-ASPECTS ( odds ratio [OR] 70 , 95% CI 562-863 ) and IPH ( OR 30 , 95% CI 042-051 ) were significantly associated with non-BOD mechanisms . Hypoperfusion mechanism was associated with a higher risk of stroke recurrence during a median follow-up of 15 months ( hazard ratio 97 , 95% CI 43-03 ) . DATA CONCLUSION : Multiparametric MRI may reveal differences in imaging characteristics among stroke mechanisms . Hypoperfusion may be associated with an increased risk of stroke recurrence . EVIDENCE LEVEL : Technical Efficacy : Stage
With the widespread use of high-fat diets ( HFDs ) in aquaculture , the adverse effects of HFDs on farmed fish are becoming increasingly apparent . Creatine has shown potential as a green feed additive in farmed fish ; however , the potential of dietary creatine to attenuate adverse effects caused by high fat diets remains poorly understood . To address such gaps , the present study was conducted to investigate the mitigating effect of dietary creatine on HFD-induced disturbance on growth performance , hepatic lipid metabolism , intestinal health , as well as muscle quality of juvenile largemouth bass . Three diets were formulated : a control diet ( 20% lipid ) , a high fat diet ( HFD , 31% lipid ) , and HFD with 2% creatine ( HFD + creatine ) . Juvenile largemouth bass ( 73+/-01g ) were randomly assigned to three diets for 10 weeks . The key findings were : The expression of muscle growth-related genes and proteins was stimulated by dietary creatine , which contribute to ameliorate the adverse effects of HFD on growth performance ; Dietary creatine alleviates HFD-induced adverse effects on intestinal health by improving intestinal health , which also enhances feed utilization efficiency ; Dietary creatine causes excessive lipid deposition , mainly via lipolysis and beta-oxidation . Notably , the present study also reveal a previously undisclosed effect of creatine supplementation on improving muscle quality . Together , first time from a comprehensive multi-organ or tissue perspective , our study provides a feasible approach for developing appropriate nutritional strategies to alleviate the adverse effects of HFD on farmed fish , based on creatine supplementation . FAU - Song , Yu-Feng
Ioxynil octanoate , considered to be non-genotoxic , is widely used as a post-emergence herbicide . However , extensive agricultural usage might potentially adversely affect non-target organisms , indicating the need for a comprehensive toxicological reassessment . The aim of this study was to investigate the phytotoxic and cytogenotoxic effects attributed to exposure to this herbicide on Allium cepa L . examining germination , early growth , cell cycle progression , and genomic stability . Herbicide concentrations of 52 , 209 , 837 , or 3350 ppm were tested . Distilled water was used as a negative control , while 10 ppm methyl methanesulfonate ( MMS ) served as a positive control in the comet assay . Parameters determined included germination , root and shoot growth , biomass accumulation , qualitative lipid peroxidation , mitotic index , chromosomal aberrations , and DNA fragmentation via the comet assay . All tested concentrations significantly reduced seed germination and seedling development , with 3350 ppm completely inhibiting normal growth . Histochemical analysis demonstrated significant oxidative stress . A mitodepressive effect exceeding 72% was observed after 72 hr exposure . DNA fragmentation induced by 837 and 3350 ppm was comparable to that of MMS . The association between comet assay results and the presence of micronuclei reinforces the compromise of genomic stability in A . cepa exposed to the compound . Data demonstrated that ioxynil octanoate , even at field-relevant concentrations , impaired cell division , and genomic integrity , indicative of significant cytogenotoxicity . These findings emphasize the need to reevaluate agricultural use of ioxynil octanoate , considering potential environmental risks to non-target organisms and the importance of complementary genotoxicological studies involving both target and non-target organisms . FAU - Ezequiel Costa Martins , Gabriela
The jasmonic acid ( JA ) pathway is central for plant defence against herbivores , and genes related to this pathway have received increased attention . Here , we evaluated the functions of the allene oxide cyclase ( AOC ) -encoding gene GmAOC3 and the caleosin-encoding gene GmCLO1 , which may affect JA synthesis in soybean , and explored the anti-insect mechanisms of these two genes . The overexpression of GmAOC3 increased soybean resistance to the common cutworm ( CCW ) . The strongest resistance to CCW was observed in the GmAOC3-overexpressing line GmAOC3-OE- Whole-genome resequencing and expression analysis revealed that in this line , GmCLO1 silencing was caused by insertion of the GmAOC3 gene into the GmCLO1 sequence . GmCLO1 expression responded to CCW induction . Compared with the controls , the knockdown or knockout of GmCLO1 increased soybean resistance to CCW . Conversely , the overexpression of GmCLO1 decreased CCW resistance . Transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses revealed that the gmclo1-knockout line shared 653 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) and 87 differentially abundant metabolites with the GmAOC3-OE line . Among these common DEGs , anti-insect genes related to JA , such as the 9-lipoxygenase gene Glyma . 13G347800 , the vegetative storage protein gene Glyma . 08G200100 , and the trypsin inhibitor gene Glyma . 06G219900 , showed upregulated expressions in both lines . Additionally , JA and JA-isoleucine contents were notably elevated in the GmAOC3-OE-1 line but decreased in the GmCLO1-overexpressing line . Measurements of yield-related traits revealed that GmAOC3 overexpression and/or GmCLO1 knockout did not affect soybean yield . In conclusion , we identified two new target genes for insect-resistant soybean breeding and contributed to an in-depth understanding of the JA-mediated insect resistance mechanisms in soybeans .
AIM : To investigate factors influencing the indwelling time of retrievable inferior vena cava filters ( IVCFs ) in fracture patients with deep vein thrombosis ( DVT ) , particularly comparing Denali and Cordis filters and analyzing the impact of thrombus location and patient characteristics . METHODS : A retrospective cohort study was conducted from June 2017 to December 2021 at Shenyang Orthopedic Hospital , China . We analyzed 802 patients with fractures and acute DVT who underwent successful IVCF retrieval . Patients were stratified into Denali ( n = 360 ) and Cordis ( n = 442 ) groups , with DVT categorized into four subgroups : above-knee DVT ( AKDVT ) , popliteal vein thrombosis ( PVT ) , below-knee DVT ( BKDVT ) , and mixed DVT ( MDVT ) . The normality of continuous variables was assessed using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test ( p >/= 05 ) . Statistical analyses included Cox regression for hazard ratios ( HRs ) , independent t-tests for normally distributed variables , chi-square tests for categorical variables ( e . g . , gender , diabetes prevalence ) , and Mann-Whitney U tests for non-normally distributed variables . RESULTS : A total of 802 patients underwent IVCF insertion and had their filters successfully removed . Significant differences in the indwelling time for AKDVT , PVT , BKDVT , and MDVT were observed between the Denali and Cordis groups ( p < 001 ) . In the Denali group , the indwelling times for AKDVT , PVT , BKDVT , and MDVT were 58 , 67 , 42 , and 51 days , respectively , while in the Cordis group , the corresponding times were 21 , 5 , 16 , and 19 days ( p < 001 ) . Cox regression analysis revealed that age influenced the indwelling time in the Denali group . In both the Denali and Cordis groups , metabolic factors such as diabetes , hypertension , and blood lipids were not significantly correlated with indwelling time ( p > 05 ) . Multivariate Cox regression identified that age >/=60 years ( adjusted HR = 3 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) = 051-609 , p = 016 ) and BKDVT ( BKDVT vs . AKDVT : HR = 802 , 95% CI = 029-157 , p = 039 ) were predictors of prolonged indwelling time in the Denali group , while PVT ( p = 943 ) and MDVT ( p = 831 ) showed no significant association . CONCLUSIONS : Denali filters require longer indwelling durations than Cordis filters , with age and DVT location ( BKDVT ) being critical determinants for Denali , whereas only DVT location affects Cordis . Clinicians should tailor follow-up schedules and prioritize early retrieval for Cordis filters to reduce complications . These findings underscore the importance of individualized IVCF management based on filter type and thrombus location . FAU - Wei , Guozhu
BACKGROUND : Although conventional lipids ( high density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDLC ) , low density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDLC ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) and triglycerides ( TG ) ) are therapeutic targets to manage and prevent atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , apolipoprotein ( Apo ) levels have sparked interest for their potential to improve CVD risk prediction . This study explored the relationships of traditional CVD risk factors with conventional lipids , as well as ApoA1 , ApoB and its ratio ( ApoB : ApoA1 ) in South African adults of African ancestry . METHODS : This study included 1697 adults ( aged 29 to 94 ) from the Prospective Urban Rural Epidemiology ( PURE ) study . The CVD risk markers included body mass index ( BMI ) , physical activity index , tobacco use , dietary fat intake , gamma-glutamyl transferase ( gammaGT ) and glycated haemoglobin ( HbA1C ) . Conventional lipids were measured in serum samples using standard methodology , while ApoA1 and ApoB were measured using a multiplex magnetic bead immunoassay . RESULTS : Stratified into tertiles of conventional lipid and Apo levels , trends emerged across multiple CVD risk markers , including BMI , tobacco use , fat intake , gammaGT and HbA1C levels . Higher tertiles of LDLC , TC , TG , ApoB and ApoB : ApoA1 , along with the lowest tertiles of HDLC and ApoA1 exhibited higher prevalence of Type II diabetes mellitus ( all p </= 024 ) and overweight or obesity ( all except for TC , p </= 024 ) . HDLC was negatively associated and LDLC , TC , and TG were positively associated with BMI ( all p < 001 ) and HbA1C ( all except for TC , p </= 005 ) . Similarly , ApoA1 associated negatively with BMI ( beta=-067 ( -125 ; -010 ) , p = 022 ) and HbA1C ( beta=-071 ( -122 ; -020 ) , p = 007 ) , while ApoB associated positively with BMI ( beta = 168 ( 117 ; 218 ) , p < 001 ) . The ApoB : ApoA1 showed positive associations with BMI ( beta = 213 ( 163 ; 263 ) , p < 001 ) and HbA1C ( beta = 123 ( 074 ; 172 ) , p < 001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In South African adults of African ancestry , ApoA1 , ApoB and ApoB : ApoA1 levels are associated with various established CVD risk markers and suggests that these apolipoproteins may provide additional mechanistic insights beyond the conventional lipids to understand the aetiology of early cardiometabolic disease development .
OBJECTIVE : This multicenter , open-label , randomized controlled trial ( RCT ) aims to assess the efficacy and safety of levothyroxine monotherapy in lowering the risk of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) in untreated older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism ( SCH ) who are diagnosed according to population-specific TSH reference values . METHODS : A total of 254 patients with SCH who meet the diagnostic criteria will be recruited , and the baseline clinical data of the patients will be collected . Then , a total of 127 patients will be randomly divided into each of the treatment and control groups , and the treatment group will receive daily levothyroxine doses ( Merck Euthyrox ( R ) levothyroxine 50 mcg tablet ) . Specifically , 50 microg of levothyroxine per day will be administered to patients in the treatment group ( or 25 microg to patients with a body weight < 50 kg ) for at least 48 weeks to maintain thyroid-stimulating hormone ( TSH ) levels within the normal range . The participants in the control group will be subjected only to thyroid status evaluation , and the results will be recorded . The participants will complete five visits before and after the start of the trial , and differences in the change in carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ) , maximum mean change in plaque burden , and changes in lipid profiles , bone mineral densities , and incidences of fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular events between the initial visit and the last follow-up visit will be evaluated via vascular ultrasound . DISCUSSION : We will explicitly address whether levothyroxine replacement therapy provides cardiovascular benefits for older adults with subclinical hypothyroidism . CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION : ClinicalTrials . gov , No . ChiCTR Registered on 30 November Recruitment for this study began on December 1 , 2024 , and continues until at least until November 30 ,
BACKGROUND : Numerous previous studies have suggested dyslipidemia is possibly linked to endometriosis ( EMs ) . The connection between endometriosis and NHHR remains largely unexplored . Thus , this investigation examined whether NHHR is correlated with endometriosis development among adult women in the United States of America . METHODS : Data from the 1999-2006 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) were analyzed in a cross-sectional study , with a final sample of 4 , 990 participants . To investigate the potential association between NHHR and the likelihood of developing endometriosis , we employed two statistical models : a weighted multivariate logistic regression model and a restricted cubic spline model . Data visualization included scatter plots with locally estimated scatterplot smoothing ( LOESS ) curves to illustrate the relationship between NHHR and the probability of endometriosis . To ensure the reliability of our findings , we subsequently conducted subgroup analyses and interaction tests to assess their stability . RESULTS : In this study , after accounting for all potential confounders , it was found that for every one-point elevation in NHHR , the risk of developing endometriosis increased by 17% ( 95% CI : 05-35 , p = 04 ) . A linear dose-response association was identified that connected NHHR with the risk of endometriosis ( P for nonlinear = 1315 ) . Interaction results from subgroup analyses suggested that an association between NHHR and risk of endometriosis was largely unaffected by race , educational background , or marital status , among others . CONCLUSION : NHHR and the probability of developing endometriosis are significantly correlated in the U . S . population , suggesting that further research on NHHR could assist in non-invasive diagnosis of endometriosis .
BACKGROUND : Although dietary omega fatty acids have been recognized for positive effects on mental health , the specific association between omega fatty acids intake and suicidal ideation remains ambiguous . This study aims to explore the potential association between the prevalence of suicidal ideation and dietary omega fatty acids intake in American adults . METHODS : The data of 27 , 944 American adults collected from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) were analyzed in this study . To assess the association between dietary omega fatty acids intake and suicidal ideation as measured by Item 9 of PHQ-9 , logistic regression , restricted cubic spline regression , and stratified analyses , mediation analyses were employed . RESULTS : Logistic regression analyses indicate that the intakes of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids were inversely associated with the prevalence of suicidal ideation , and dietary omega-6/omega-3 ratio was positively associated with the prevalence of suicidal ideation . Subgroup analyses further revealed a stronger association between suicidal ideation and omega fatty acids intake in individuals with a history of stroke . Furthermore , a saturation effect and non-linear association were identified between omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids intake and the prevalence of suicidal ideation , characterized by an L-shaped curve with an inflection point at 36 g/d , 69 g/d , respectively . Notably , C-reactive protein ( CRP ) partially mediated the association between omega-6 , omega-3 fatty acids intake and suicidal ideation by a proportion of 8% and 0% . CONCLUSION : The findings of this study suggest that higher omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids intake and lower omega-6/omega-3 ratio is associated with a declined prevalence of suicidal ideation . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
Neuropathic pain is a chronic condition with limited effective treatments , closely associated with astrocytes and their role in central sensitization . Apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) , predominantly expressed in astrocytes in central nervous system , exists in three ApoE isoforms ( ApoE2 , ApoE3 , and ApoE4 ) in humans , with ApoE4 linked to increased susceptibility to neurological diseases . However , the relationship between ApoE4 and neuropathic pain , as well as underlying mechanisms , remains poorly understood . Here , we demonstrated that mice expressing human ApoE4 ( ApoE4-TR ) displayed increased pain sensitivity following spared nerve injury ( SNI ) compared to ApoE3-TR mice . This increased sensitivity was also observed in mice with astrocyte-specific expression of ApoE4 , achieved through Cre-mediated recombination . Metabolomic profiling revealed reduced spermidine levels in the spinal dorsal horn of ApoE4-TR mice relative to ApoE3-TR mice . Daily gavage administration of spermidine alleviated mechanical pain to a comparable level in ApoE3-TR and ApoE4-TR mice , as assessed by von Frey test . However , lower dose of spermidine effectively alleviated neuropathic pain in ApoE3-TR mice but showed reduced efficacy in ApoE4-TR mice , likely due to limited spermidine retention in ApoE4 astrocytes , as demonstrated in vitro . Transcriptomic analysis identified Nos2 as a critical gene upregulated in ApoE4-TR mice . Mechanistically , spermidine suppressed Nos2 expression by inhibiting the NF-kappaB pathway in astrocytes , thereby alleviating neuropathic pain . These findings highlight an enhanced pain sensitivity associated with ApoE4 and suggest spermidine as a potential therapeutic strategy , emphasizing a tailored dosage approach for ApoE4 carriers .
BACKGROUND : Diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 ( DGAT1 ) is crucial for triglyceride synthesis , yet its role in ischemic stroke remains unclear . This study investigated DGAT1 in ischemic stroke using middle cerebral artery occlusion ( MCAO ) rat models and highly differentiated PC12 cells subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation/reoxygenation ( OGD/R ) . METHODS : The therapeutic effects of DGAT1 inhibition in MCAO rats were assessed using the Zea-Longa score and 2 , 3 , 5-Triphenyltetrazolium chloride ( TTC ) staining . The effects on highly differentiated PC12 cells subjected to OGD/R were evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 ( CCK-8 ) and lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) assays . Ferroptosis-related mitochondrial damage was evaluated using transmission electron microscope . Additionally , the mechanisms by which DGAT1 inhibition regulates ferroptosis were further explored via immunohistochemistry , immunofluorescence , Western blotting , qPCR , JC-1 assay , and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) detection . RESULTS : DGAT1 expression was elevated in both MCAO and OGD/R models . The DGAT1 inhibitor A 922500 improved neurological deficits , reduced infarct volume , and minimized neuronal loss in MCAO rats , while also enhancing cell viability and reducing LDH levels in OGD/R-treated PC12 cells . DGAT1 inhibition significantly alleviated ferroptosis in MCAO rats , as indicated by ( i ) reduced mitochondrial shortening and cristae disruption , ( ii ) decreased 4-HNE levels , ( iii ) reduced MDA and increased SOD , and ( iv ) lowered levels of inflammatory factors ( IL-6 , MCP-1 , and TNF-alpha ) . Moreover , both in vivo and in vitro experiments showed that DGAT1 inhibition significantly increased Gpx4 levels , whereas lentiviral delivery of Gpx4 shRNA markedly reversed its beneficial effects . In MCAO rats , Gpx4 shRNA significantly elevated 4-HNE levels and exacerbated ferroptosis-related mitochondrial damage . In vitro , DGAT1 inhibition increased mitochondrial membrane potential and reduced ROS , whereas rotenone , a mitochondrial function inhibitor , decreased Gpx4 and impaired cell viability . Furthermore , DGAT1 inhibition significantly upregulated the key beta-oxidation gene Cpt1a , whereas etomoxir , a beta-oxidation inhibitor , reduced cell viability and mitochondrial membrane potential , increased ROS , and downregulated Gpx CONCLUSIONS : Our study suggests that DGAT1 inhibition may enhance beta-oxidation and mitochondrial function , thereby increasing Gpx4 levels , suppressing ferroptosis , and ultimately exerting neuroprotective effects in ischemic stroke .
BACKGROUND : The extreme high-altitude conditions of the Tibetan Plateau , characterized by intense solar radiation , low temperatures , and reduced oxygen levels , poses significant challenges to plant survival . Plants inhabiting this region have evolved specialized mechanisms to adapt to high-altitude environments . While most studies have focused on genomic and ecological perspectives , few have explored adaptive mechanisms in a metabolic context . In particular , comparative studies examining similarities and differences in the metabolomes of closely related species are exceedingly rare . As sister species , the nettle species Urtica hyperborea and U . dioica are distributed above 4000 m above sea level , with a sympatric distribution on the Tibetan Plateau , they provide an ideal system to investigate the aforementioned question . RESULTS : In this study , we conducted non-targeted metabolic profiling of the leaves from U . hyperborea and U . dioica collected at three sympatric sites on the Tibetan Plateau . A total of 2906 annotated metabolites were detected . Differential metabolites at Sites 1 ( 4697 m ) and 3 ( 4465 m ) were enriched in pathways for flavonoid , flavone and flavonol , and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis . In contrast , Site 2 , located at the highest altitude ( 5007 m ) , primarily exhibited enrichment in carbon metabolism pathways . Regarding the altitudinal variation of the same species , common metabolic pathways between the two groups included fructose and mannose metabolism , alpha-linolenic acid metabolism , and glycerophospholipid metabolism . The metabolic pathways enriched only inU . hyperboreaincluded starch and sucrose metabolism , galactose metabolism , and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis . The metabolically enriched pathways specific toU . dioicaincluded pantothenate and coenzyme A biosynthesis , as well as glutathione metabolism . CONCLUSIONS : We found that the metabolic differences between the two sympatric species are primarily in carbohydrate and phenylpropanoid contents . The differential metabolites of the same species across different altitudes were enriched mainly in carbon metabolism pathways and lipid metabolism pathways . Thus , our study revealed that the high-altitude adaptation mechanisms of sympatric species are not identical . Moreover , adaptation strategies within the same species were generally consistent across altitudes , exhibiting only slight variations . This study provide novel insights into the adaptive metabolic strategies of U . hyperborea and U . dioica , contributing to a deeper understanding of the mechanisms underlying plant adaptation to extreme high-altitude conditions .
This systematic review aims to comprehensively assess the epidemiology and identify risk factors associated with the severity and recurrence of hypertriglyceridemia-induced acute pancreatitis ( HTG-AP ) . A search of PubMed , Web of Science , and Cochrane databases was conducted to identify all relevant randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) , prospective , or retrospective cohort studies on HTG-AP . Data related to epidemiology and risk factors for severity and recurrence of HTG-AP were extracted and analyzed . Seventy-seven studies met the inclusion criteria , comprising 1 RCT , 21 prospective studies , and 55 retrospective studies . A total of 56 , 617 acute pancreatitis ( AP ) patients were included , of which 99% were diagnosed with HTG-AP ( n = 11 , 315 ) . Compared to non-HTG-AP patients , HTG-AP patients were more likely to be male ( 7% vs . 3% ) and younger ( mean age 47 +/- 32 vs . 25 +/- 70 years ) . HTG-AP patients exhibited higher mortality rates ( up to 20% vs . 2% ) , increased severity ( 3% to 100% vs . 8% to 2% ) , and higher recurrence rates ( up to 8% vs . 3% ) . Analysis of temporal trends from 2002 to 2023 showed a range of HTG-AP prevalence in overall AP patients from 6% to 6% , with a slight upward trend that was not statistically significant ( P = 1081 ) . Regional analysis indicated relatively stable prevalence in North America ( P = 5787 ) , Europe ( P = 0881 ) , other regions ( P = 738 ) , while prevalence in China showed a significant increase ( P = 0119 ) . Thirteen studies investigated risk factors affecting HTG-AP severity , with elevated serum triglyceride ( TG ) levels associated with increased risk of complications such as pancreatic necrosis , systemic inflammatory response syndrome ( SIRS ) , shock , and multi-organ failure . Additional factors including high neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio ( NLR ) , elevated levels of amylase and C-reactive protein ( CRP ) , hypocalcemia , and hypoalbuminemia were also implicated in HTG-AP severity . Smoking history , poor lipid control ( TG > 1 mmol/L ) , or recurrent hypertriglyceridemia during follow-up were identified as potential predictors of HTG-AP recurrence . Our findings indicate a stable global prevalence of HTG-AP within AP patients , but a notable increase in China , possibly attributed to socio-economic and dietary factors .
PURPOSE : High salt diet ( HSD ) has been considered as a risk factor for the development of metabolic disorders . However , less is known about long-term implications of HSD . Therefore , the aim of this study was to conduct a preliminary investigation into the effects of mice feeding with long-term HSD on gut microbial and metabolic profiles . METHODS : In this study , C57BL/6 J mice were fed with HSD for 22 weeks , after which fat and feces were collected . The composition of fecal microbiota was determined using 16S rRNA gene sequencing . Fecal metabolic profiling of mice was identified through untargeted ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry . In addition , the serum levels of adipocytokines , including fibroblast growth factor 21 ( FGF21 ) and adiponectin ( APN ) , were measured . RESULTS : Long-term HSD disrupted the growth performance of mice . Compared to those fed a normal salt diet , mice on a long-term HSD showed slower weight gain , as well as lower fat accumulation and serum levels of APN , while experiencing elevated blood pressure and levels of serum FGF21 and glucose . The 16S rRNA sequencing revealed changes in community richness and diversity , with long-term HSD affecting the abundance of certain gut microbiota , including Firmicutes , Christensenella , Barnesiella , and Lactococcus . Fecal metabolomic analysis also uncovered alterations in metabolites , such as myriocin , cerulenin , norcholic acid , 7-ketocholesterol , and prostaglandins B Further analysis indicated that these gut and microbiota and metabolites are predominantly involved in the lipid metabolism of the organism . Importantly , variations in these gut metabolites and microbiota were significantly correlated with body weight , fat accumulation , and the levels of FGF21 and APN . CONCLUSION : Long-term HSD affects physiological traits , alters gut metabolites profiles , and impacts the composition and function of gut microbiota , thus causes a certain impact on lipid metabolism .
Heavy metals ( HMs ) contamination is a major issue produced by industrial and mining processes , among other human activities . The capacity of fungi to eliminate HMs from the environment has drawn attention . However , the main process by which fungi protect the environment against the damaging effects of these HMs , such as cadmium ( Cd ) , is still unknown . In this study , some fungi were isolated from HMs-polluted soil . The minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) and the tolerance indices of the tested isolates against Cd were evaluated . Moreover , molecular identification of the most tolerant fungal isolates ( Aspergillus niger and A . terreus ) was done and deposited in the GenBank NCBI database . The results showed that the colony diameter of A . niger and A . terreus was decreased gradually by the increase of Cd concentration . Also , all the tested parameters were influenced by Cd concentration . Lipid peroxidation ( MDA content ) was progressively increased by 95-95% ( A . niger ) and 27-38% ( A . terreus ) , respectively , from 50 to 200 mg/L . PPO , APX , and POD enzymes were elevated in the presence of Cd , thus illustrating the appearance of an oxidative stress action . Compared to the non-stressed A . niger , the POD and PPO activities were enhanced by 00 and 24% at 200 mg/L Cd . Also , APX activity was increased by 12% at 200 mg/L . Removal efficiency and microbial accumulation capacities of A . niger and A . terreus have also been assessed . Production of succinic and malic acids by A . niger and A . terreus was increased in response to 200 mg/L Cd , in contrast to their controls ( Cd-free ) , as revealed by HPLC analysis . These findings helped us to suggest A . niger and A . terreus as the potential mycoremediation microbes that alleviate Cd contamination . We can learn more about these fungal isolates ' resistance mechanisms against different HMs through further studies .
This study investigated the cryoprotective effects of Lagenaria siceraria seed oil ( BG ) on rabbit sperm quality during a 72-hour period of chilled storage at 4 degrees C . While a prevalent method for preserving rabbit semen , cryopreservation can elicit cold shock and other stressors , resulting in a decline in sperm quality . Thereafter , the researchers hypothesized that BG , potentially due to its antioxidant properties , could mitigate these detrimental effects . For the experiment , semen samples were diluted in extender and assigned to treatment groups receiving BG at concentrations of 0 ( BG0 ) , 100 ( BG100 ) , 200 ( BG200 ) , or 400 ( BG400 ) microL/mL , followed by storage at 4 degrees C . Sperm quality parameters ( motility , viability , membrane integrity , and morphology ) were assessed at 24- , 48- , and 72-hour time points of storage . Results indicated a quadratic improvement in sperm motility , viability , and membrane integrity with the addition of 100 or 200 microL/mL of BG across all time points ( P < 01 ) . A quadratic relationship was observed between BG supplementation levels and the concentrations of GPx and SOD , indicating a dose-dependent increase . BG treatment at all concentrations led to elevated total antioxidant capacity ( TAC ) compared to the control , with peak TAC values at 200 and 400 microL/mL BG . Conversely , nitric oxide ( NO ) levels significantly decreased ( P < 001 ) with increasing BG dosage . BG treatment significantly decreased malondialdehyde , HO , and protein carbonyl levels compared to the control ( P < 01 ) . Additionally , succinate dehydrogenase ( SDH ) and malate dehydrogenase ( MDH ) activities were significantly and quadratically improved at BG concentrations of 200 and 400 microL/mL relative to the 100 microL/mL concentration . In conclusion , supplementing rabbit semen extenders with BG significantly enhanced sperm quality during 72-hour chilled storage by attenuating oxidative stress , bolstering antioxidant capacity , and promoting mitochondrial enzyme activity . These findings suggest that BG is a promising additive for improving the preservation of chilled rabbit semen , potentially benefiting artificial insemination and rabbit breeding programs .
BACKGROUND : Topologically associating domains ( TADs ) are functional units that organize chromosomes into 3D structures of interacting chromatin , and play a crucial role in regulating gene expression by constraining enhancer-promoter contacts . Evidence suggests that deletion of TAD boundaries can lead to aberrant expression of neighboring genes . In our study , we analyzed high-throughput chromatin conformation capture ( Hi-C ) datasets from publicly available sources , integrating 71 datasets across five tissues in six pig breeds . RESULTS : Our comprehensive analysis revealed 65 , 843 TADs in pigs , and we found that TAD boundaries are enriched for expression Quantitative Trait Loci ( eQTL ) , splicing Quantitative Trait Loci ( sQTL ) , Loss-of-Function variants ( LoFs ) , and other regulatory variants . Genes within conserved TADs are associated with fundamental biological functions , while those in dynamic TADs may have tissue-specific roles . Specifically , we observed differential expression of the NCOA2 gene within dynamic TADs . This gene is highly expressed in adipose tissue , where it plays a crucial role in regulating lipid metabolism and maintaining energy homeostasis . Additionally , differential expression of the BMPER gene within dynamic TADs is associated with its role in modulating the activities of bone morphogenetic proteins ( BMPs ) -critical growth factors involved in bone and cartilage development . CONCLUSION : Our investigations have shed light on the pivotal roles of TADs in governing gene expression and even influencing traits . Our study has unveiled a holistic interplay between chromatin interactions and gene regulation across various tissues and pig breeds . Furthermore , we anticipate that incorporating markers , such as structural variants ( SVs ) , and phenotypes will enhance our understanding of their intricate interactions .
Intracellular delivery of biomacromolecules is hampered by low efficiency and cytotoxicity . Here we report the development of elastin-based nanoparticles for therapeutic delivery ( ENTER ) , a recombinant elastin-like polypeptide ( ELP ) -based delivery system for effective cytosolic delivery of biomacromolecules in vitro and in vivo . Through iterative design , we developed fourth-generation ELPs fused to cationic endosomal escape peptides ( EEPs ) that self-assemble into pH-responsive micellar nanoparticles and enable cytosolic entry of cargo following endocytic uptake . In silico screening of alpha-helical peptide libraries led to the discovery of an EEP ( EEP13 ) with 48% improved protein delivery efficiency versus a benchmark peptide . Our lead ELP-EEP13 showed similar or superior performance compared to lipid-based transfection reagents in the delivery of mRNA-encoded , DNA-encoded and protein-form Cre recombinase and CRISPR gene editors as well as short interfering RNAs to multiple cell lines and primary cell types . Intranasal administration of ELP-EEP13 combined with Cre protein achieved efficient editing of lung epithelial cells in reporter mice .
BACKGROUND : Neurodegenerative disorders are a group of debilitating diseases affecting the central nervous system , and are characterized by the progressive loss of neurons , leading to declines in cognitive function , movement , and overall quality of life . While the exact causes remain elusive , it ' s believed that a combination of genetic , environmental , and lifestyle factors contribute to their development . Metabolites , the end products of cellular processes , reflect the physiological state of an organism . By analysing these molecules , researchers can gain a deeper understanding of the underlying metabolic changes associated with neurodegenerative disorders . AIM OF REVIEW : This review aims to explore the possibilities between metabolites and their association with neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( ALS ) , Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) and Huntington ' s disease ( HD ) . KEY SCIENTIFIC CONCEPTS OF REVIEW : Metabolomic studies could potentially illuminate altered biochemical pathways , facilitating earlier detection and treatment of these conditions . Metabolomic investigations have revealed the role of oxidative stress , alterations in glucose and fat metabolism , mitochondrial dysfunction , apoptosis , glutamate excitotoxicity and alterations in myelin composition in neurodegenerative disorders . The common metabolic biomarkers identified includes glutamate , taurine , uric acid , branched chain amino acids , acylcarnitine , creatinine , choline , with some more amino acids and lipids . Metabolomics offers valuable insights into disease mechanisms and potential therapeutic targets by identifying biochemical and metabolic alterations , but still there are several aspects to be explored for accurate mapping of metabolites with specific pathway involved in the disease .
Propolis has significant hepatoprotective effects , but the active components , targets , and mechanisms have not been fully elucidated . Here , we integrated network pharmacology , serum metabolomics , and 16 S rRNA sequencing to disclose the hepatoprotective effects of Chinese propolis ( CP ) by lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced acute liver injury ( ALI ) in mice . The core active ingredients of CP against ALI , including quercetin , luteolin , and kaempferol , can bind stably to pro-inflammatory factors such as TNF-alpha , IL-6 , IL-1beta , and IFN-gamma . CP and its active ingredient quercetin obviously alleviated LPS-induced ALI in mice and downregulated the levels of pro-inflammatory genes ( Tnf-alpha , Il-1beta , Il-6 , Mcp-1 , Ifn-gamma , and Cox-2 ) while increasing the protein expression levels of the antioxidant factors Nrf2 and HO- Untargeted serum metabolomics analysis indicated that CP and quercetin ameliorated LPS-induced metabolic disorders mainly by modulating the ascorbate and aldarate metabolisms . 16 S rRNA sequencing demonstrated that CP and quercetin modulated the gut microbiota , augmenting the relative abundance of anti-inflammatory bacteria like Lactobacillus and Dubosiella and diminishing the pro-inflammatory bacteria like Alistipes . Spearman correlation analysis revealed that there existed significant correlations among inflammatory factors , gut microbiota , and differential metabolites of serum after propolis pretreatment . Our research indicated that propolis effectively alleviated pathological damage in LPS-induced ALI mice mainly through partially restoring the ecology of gut flora and metabolic disorders to reduce inflammation .
Quantitative strain elastography ( SE ) , referred to as E-Cervix ( Samsung Medison ) , is a novel method for assessing parameters that indirectly describe the elasticity of the cervix . This evaluation yields quantitative parameters based on the analysis of the elastographic map image , which represents a new approach in the context of SE . In our study , we aimed to examine the reproducibility of this method in evaluating the cervix of non-pregnant women , the impact of basic demographic parameters of the patient on the results , and the responsiveness of the method , i . e . , the assessment of changes occurring in the results after the vaginal application of a 400 microg dose of misoprostol . We included 80 patients scheduled for hysteroscopy who underwent elastographic examination using the E-Cervix module . The examination was performed twice upon admission to the department by the same ultrasonographer and then again 10-12 h after vaginal application of misoprostol , consecutively by two ultrasonographers . Our study demonstrated high reproducibility of all obtained parameters , with ICC ( Intraclass Correlation Coefficient ) for intraobserver variability being good to excellent , ranging from 85 for ECI ( Elasticity index ) to 94 for IOS ( Internal Os strain ) /EOS ( External Os strain ) ratio . For interobserver variability , ICC values ranged from 76 for ECI to 97 for IOS/EOS ratio . We observed no significant correlation between parameters such as height , weight , BMI ( body mass index ) , and the number of births in the patient ' s history and the values of elastographic parameters . We found weak to moderate positive correlations between the day of the cycle in which the patient was and ECI ( rho = 28 ) , EOS ( rho = 41 ) , IOS/EOS ratio ( rho = 33 ) . The study observed a significant increase in the median value of the HR ( Hardness ratio ) parameter after the application of vaginal misoprostol ( median difference = 32 ) , an increase in EOS ( difference of the medians = 04 ) , and a significant decrease in IOS/EOS ratio ( difference of medians = - 05 ) . In our study , we demonstrated high reproducibility and repeatability of E-Cervix parameters in non-pregnant women and showed a negligible influence of most demographic factors on the study outcomes , as well as changes in parameter values under the influence of drugs affecting cervical elasticity . The method appears to be suitable for evaluating the cervix in non-pregnant women .
In this work , a two-dimensional ring-shaped photonic crystal structure is proposed . The proposed structure is consisted of 28*25 silicon rods situated in air medium . Fundamental properties of the proposed structure ( acting as a biosensor ) are investigated through photonic bandgap ( PBG ) and field distribution diagrams . The proposed structure is considered for diagnosis of cholesterol and creatinine levels in blood samples . Proposed structure is designed to operate as a 2 : 1 multiplexer ( also functioning as a biosensor ) . Thus , by inserting incident signals with specific wavelengths ( placed in TE PBG region ) to input0 , input1 and select ports , light wave can be transmitted to output port . Cholesterol concentrations in blood sample can be detected by considering input0 ( I = 1 ) , input1 ( I = 0 ) and select ( S = 0 ) . For cholesterol following bio sensing factors will be calculated . Q : ( 4-88 ) , S : 4 nm/RIU , DL : ( 00125-00143 ) RIU , FOM : ( 91-06 ) RIU ( -1 ) . Creatinine levels in blood samples can also be diagnosed by considering input0 ( I = 0 ) , input1 ( I = 1 ) and select ( S = 1 ) . For creatinine , Q : ( 1-4 ) , S : 7 nm/RIU , DL : ( 98e-4-26e-4 ) RIU and FOM : ( 01-3 ) RIU ( -1 ) will be calculated . Finally , proposed system can effectively help physician in early and precise prognosis of hypercholesterolemia and acute kidney injuries .
The common APOE2/E3/E4 polymorphism is determined by two-site haplotypes : C112R and R158C . Due to strong linkage disequilibrium ( LD ) between the two sites , three of the four expected haplotypes/alleles ( E2 , E3 , E4 ) have been observed . Compared to the most common E3 haplotype ( C112-R158 ) , E4 ( R112-R158 ) results from a mutation at codon 112 , while E2 ( C112-C158 ) results from a mutation at codon The fourth haplotype ( E5 ) having mutations at both sites ( R112-C158 ) has been reported only as an incidental finding in three kindreds . To our knowledge , no systematic search has been done to determine its distribution in the general population . The objective of this study was to search for the elusive haplotype by subcloning a DNA fragment of 177 bp from 355 subjects with the APOE 2/4 genotype followed by sequencing as well as in 11 , 647 subjects genotyped by TaqMan assays . No example of the E5 haplotype was observed , suggesting it might have a minimum effect , if any , on Alzheimer ' s disease risk . Under the assumption of strong LD between the two sites , the estimated probability for the occurrence of the E5 haplotype by recombination event is 31E-08 , which is similar to 58E-08 probability obtained by recurrent point mutation .
Alfalfa ( Medicago sativa L . ) is an important legume forage known for its high yield , quality , and adaptability . However , due to its cross-pollination and tetraploid inheritance characteristics , biotechnologies such as genetic modification and gene editing are challenging to be utilized in the practice of alfalfa breeding . In this study , a MsJAR1 gene involved in jasmonic acid ( JA ) pathway was overexpressed into ' Zhongmu No . 1 ' alfalfa , and the effects of MsJAR1 gene on alfalfa development were analyzed . Subcellular localization results indicated that the MsJAR1 protein was located to chloroplast . Compared to wildtype ( WT ) , MsJAR1 overexpressed alfalfa plants displayed smaller leaves , reduced internode distance , increased lateral branches and plant height . Moreover , anatomical analysis revealed that xylem and phloem area decreased in leaves but increased in stems of MsJAR1 overexpressed alfalfa . Except intercellular CO , photosynthetic rates , stomatal conductance , and transpiration were significantly higher than in MsJAR1 overexpressed alfalfa . Comparative transcriptomics results showed that 12 , 046 DEGs were identified between transgenic alfalfa ( OE-1 and OE-2 ) and WT . The DEGs were significantly enriched in ribosome , glycolysis / gluconeogenesis and tricarboxylic acid cycle pathways . Therefore , it is speculated that the MsJAR1 gene affects the growth and development of alfalfa by regulating photosynthesis-related pathways .
Kidney disease , the ninth leading cause of death in the United States , suffers from poor diagnostic efficiency ( 10% ) . Traditional biopsies use molecular reagents to enhance diagnostic power but are limited by overlapping spatial and chromatic signals , product quality variability , and additional processing . To address these challenges without disrupting routine diagnostics , we implement label-free imaging modalities-stimulated Raman scattering ( SRS ) , second harmonic generation ( SHG ) , and two-photon fluorescence ( TPF ) -within a single setup . We identify morphological , lipidomic , and metabolic biomarkers in control and diabetic kidney samples at subcellular resolution . Label-free Stimulated Raman Histology ( SRH ) reveals distinct collagen morphology , mesangial-glomerular volumes , lipid saturation , redox status , and lipid-protein concentrations previously unrecognized in kidney diseases . Using the same tissue section enhances diagnostic value without compromising limited tissue . These multimodal biomarkers broadly deepen the understanding of kidney disease progression by integrating lipidomic , fibrotic , and metabolic data .
Carbon storage in soils is important in regulating atmospheric carbon dioxide ( CO ) . However , the sensitivity of the soil-carbon turnover time ( tau ( soil ) ) to temperature and hydrology forcing is not fully understood . Here , we use radiocarbon dating of plant-derived lipids in conjunction with reconstructions of temperature and rainfall from an eastern Mediterranean sediment core receiving terrigenous material from the Nile River watershed to investigate tau ( soil ) in subtropical and tropical areas during the last 18 , 000 years . We find that tau ( soil ) was reduced by an order of magnitude over the last deglaciation and that temperature was the major driver of these changes while the impact of hydroclimate was relatively small . We conclude that increased CO efflux from soils into the atmosphere constituted a positive feedback to global warming . However , simulated glacial-to-interglacial changes in a dynamic global vegetation model underestimate our data-based reconstructions of soil-carbon turnover times suggesting that this climate feedback is underestimated .
Cocoa butters and its equivalents are predominantly comprised of symmetrical monounsaturated triacylglycerols ( SUS ) , namely , SUSfats . The packing of SUS will be changed significantly during crystallization as the polymorphous forms are transferred from alpha- to beta-crystals . The transformation of the SUS-fat phase during crystallization and tempering determines the properties and qualities of final chocolate products . It is important to monitor and determine the crystallization behaviors and crystal structures of SUS-fats at cooling and melting conditions . This review systematically discusses typical tempering procedures of SUS-fats and evaluation methods on their crystallization , mainly crystallization behaviors and kinetics , crystallinity , crystal microstructures , and polymorphism . Differential scanning calorimetry ( DSC ) is currently widely used to determine crystallization behaviors of SUS-fats , while MultiTherm TC and temperature modulated optical refractometry are typical newly developed approaches for determining their phase transitions . Both crystallization kinetics and crystallinity could be obtained from nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) . Avrami , Gompertz , and Jeziorny are the important models to reveal the number , size , polymorph , and shape of SUS-fat crystals . Polarized light microscopy , scanning electron microscopy , and three-dimensional laser-scanning confocal microscopy are applied to observe morphological changes of fat crystal surfaces , and the order of SUS packing could be extracted from the fractal dimension . Detailed packing and polymorphism information could be obtained from synchrotron X-ray diffraction , DSC , NMR , rheology , infrared spectroscopy , and their combinations . The results contribute to realizing precise control in the manufacture of chocolates , especially tempering and its simplified process .
This study explores the anti-inflammatory potential of Pleurotus citrinopileatus by examining its impact on inflammation-related signaling pathways in lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -stimulated RAW7 macrophages . Fractions obtained using hexane ( HE ) , dichloromethane ( DCM ) , and ethyl acetate ( EA ) were found to suppress LPS-induced nitric oxide ( NO ) production and the expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) . Additionally , these fractions inhibited the phosphorylation of key mitogen-activated protein kinases ( MAPKs ) , including extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 ( ERK1/2 ) , p38 , and c-Jun N-terminal kinase ( JNK ) , as well as the nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) subunit p The HE , DCM , and EA fractions also promoted the nuclear accumulation of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) and increased the expression of heme oxygenase-1 ( HO-1 ) . Notably , the suppression of HO-1 activity using zinc ( II ) protoporphyrin IX ( ZnPP ) reversed the NO-inhibitory effects of these fractions . Furthermore , treatment with the HE , DCM , and EA fractions enhanced phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( PI3K ) activation , whereas PI3K inhibition by LY294002 attenuated HO-1 expression and nuclear Nrf2 translocation . Reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) scavenging by N-acetyl-L-cysteine ( NAC ) similarly reduced PI3K activation and the upregulation of HO-1 and nuclear Nrf Collectively , these findings indicate that the HE , DCM , and EA fractions mitigate NO production by downregulating iNOS expression through the suppression of MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling , while also engaging the ROS/PI3K/Nrf2/HO-1 pathway to exert anti-inflammatory effects . FAU - Choi , Hyeok Jin
Cynanchum atratum Bunge ( C . atratum ) and Cynanchum versicolor Bunge ( C . versicolor ) are two related species that have been used as " Baiwei " ( Cynanchi Atrati Radix Et Rhizoma ) in traditional medicine in China and other Asian countries for a long time . However , to date , no comprehensive review of C . atratum and C . versicolor has been published . This review provides a comprehensive summary on the botany , phytochemistry , traditional uses and pharmacology of Baiwei ; The authors focus especially on the revision of errors in previous articles and reviews , updating information and providing a comparison of C . atratum and C . versicolor . Furthermore , current research reveals significant disparities in the chemical composition and pharmacological effects between C . atratum and C . versicolor . Up to November 2023 , 178 compounds have been isolated from C . atratum and C . versicolor , including C steroids , acetophenones , alkaloids and volatile oils . These compounds and extracts have been proven to exhibit significant pharmacological activities , including anti-inflammatory , anti-tumor , anti-virus , anti-fungal , memory-enhancing and anti-pyretic action , immune modulatory effects , reducing blood lipid , inhibition of melanin production , and anti-parasitic effects . Therefore , this review presents new insights into these two herbs used as " Baiwei " and further study is warranted to enhance their clinical application . Please cite this article as : Xie W , Liu XY , Li X , Jin YS . Cynanchum atratum Bunge and Cynanchum versicolor Bunge for Baiwei : An updated review of their botany , phytochemistry , traditional uses and pharmacological activities . J Integr Med . 2025 ; Epub ahead of print .
BACKGROUND : The MyWay Diabetes ( MWD ) digital platform aims to improve diabetes management through personalised access to health records , structured education , and other self-management features . PURPOSE : We aimed to assess health outcomes in MWD users with type 1 diabetes ( T1DM ) and type 2 diabetes ( T2DM ) over 6 years of use . METHODS : An interrupted time-series analysis in MWD users with T1DM or T2DM in Somerset , UK , compared pre- and post-MWD registration trends to estimate differences in health outcomes ( HbA1c , blood pressure , lipids , BMI , weight ) . Generalised estimating equations modelling adjusted for participant baseline characteristics and identified significant predictors . RESULTS : A total of 7207 people ( T1DM : n = 750 ( 3 % female , mean age 2 ( SD8 ) ) , T2DM : n = 6457 ( 1 % male , mean age 7 ( SD0 ) ) ) were included in the analysis . The study showed some health outcomes improved significantly for T2DM between pre- and post-MWD registration . HbA1c reduced by 6 mmol/mol at 24 months post-MWD registration , with greatest improvements observed in users who were younger , had shorter diabetes durations and who were frequent MWD users . All health outcomes for T1DM were unchanged . CONCLUSION : The large HbA1c reduction for T2DM is notable for a scalable digitally-enabled self-management intervention and adds to the evidence base for digital interventions for diabetes self-management .
The aim of this study was to evaluate the therapeutic effect of puerarin ( PUE ) on alcoholic liver disease ( ALD ) and elucidate the potential mechanism from the perspective of lipolysis and hepatic steatosis . Assessment of PUE efficacy against ALD was performed using serum biochemical parameters and the histological examination of liver and adipose tissue via Hematoxylin and eosin ( H&E ) staining . The potential mechanisms underlying the amelioration of ALD by PUE were investigated using Western blotting ( WB ) analysis and immunofluorescence ( IHC ) staining . We demonstrated that PUE attenuated steatosis in ALD by alleviating ethanol-induced liver damage and lipid accumulation , suppressing the expression of lipid synthesis genes , upregulating the expression of lipid metabolism genes , and reducing lipolysis by inhibiting adipose triglyceride lipase ( ATGL ) activation and the phosphorylation of hormone-sensitive lipase ( HSL ) . In conclusion , PUE ameliorates ALD by inhibiting the sympathetic outflow-mediated activation of key lipolysis enzymes ATGL and HSL . These findings provide a solid theoretical foundation for the potential application of PUE in the clinical treatment of ALD . FAU - Zheng , Ke
Gastric cancer is a significant global health issue . Celastrol , a natural compound , has shown antitumor potential , but its molecular mechanism in gastric cancer remains unclear . In this study , we treated HGC-27 cells with celastrol and employed CCK8 , colony formation , and Transwell assays , revealing its inhibitory effect on cell proliferation and migration . Flow cytometry assay results showed that celastrol could elevate the level of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) in HGC-27 cells . By using the iron ion and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) detection kits , it was found that celastrol promoted the accumulation of iron ions ( Fe[Formula : see text] in HGC-27 cells , increased the MDA content , and simultaneously decreased the glutathione ( GSH ) content . Additionally , Western blot analysis indicated that celastrol exerts an inhibitory effect on the expression of ferroptosis-marker proteins GPX4 and SLC7A PCR array and further experiments identified CERKL as a key factor , whose downregulation by celastrol was associated with enhanced ferroptosis . In vivo , celastrol inhibited tumor growth without affecting body weight or organ histology . Our findings suggest that celastrol may inhibit gastric cancer via CERKL-regulated ferroptosis , providing a potential therapeutic strategy . FAU - Yang , Chang
AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) is a ubiquitous sensor of cellular energy and nutrient status in eukaryotic cells . It serves an essential function in the modulation of energy balance and metabolism homeostasis through its regulation of carbohydrate metabolism , lipid metabolism and protein metabolism . The dysregulation of AMPK is closely related to a series of systemic diseases , affecting multiple organs and tissues . Baicalin is a natural compound derived from the dry raw root of Scutellaria baicalensis , and it has been found to exhibit several potential pharmacological actions . These include hepatoprotective effects , anti-inflammation effects and anti-tumor effects . These biological activities are related to the regulatory effect of baicalin on the host metabolism , which is closely associated with AMPK modulation . In this review , we provide an overview of the regulatory effect of baicalin on AMPK and its upstream and downstream signaling pathways . The pharmacological properties and underlying mechanism of baicalin for regulating AMPK were summarized with regards to four aspects : regulatory effect of baicalin on AMPK in lipid metabolism and glucose metabolism , regulatory effect of baicalin on AMPK in its pharmacological effect of anti-tumor and anti-inflammation . As a natural compound , baicalin has the potential for the management of certain AMPK-related diseases . FAU - Jiang , Ming
Ceramides ( Cers ) play a crucial role in sphingolipid metabolism with multiple biological activities and functions . Due to the high regularity and variability of their structures , there exist thousands of possible Cers . The structural diversity endows them with various biological functions but also poses significant challenges for qualitative and quantitative analysis . The lack of in-depth characterization methods for such lipids resulted in only a small fraction of Cers being reported , severely hindering the exploration of their biological functions and activities . This work presented a lipid analysis method based on a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry platform , enabling the accurate quantification of 337 Cers simultaneously . Supported by a mathematical model , this work succeeded in generating a quadratic equation relationship between retention time and Cers carbon number . Subsequently , this method was applied to the large-scale quantitative detection of Cers in serum samples from Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) patients , identifying and characterizing 62 differential Cers . These could potentially serve as serum biomarkers for AD diagnosis . This study demonstrates a strategy for the large-scale in-depth characterization of complex endogenous lipid molecules with highly variable and regular structures in the absence of sufficient commercial standard materials . This work provides a novel analysis method and reference for exploring and developing the functions of such endogenous bioactive molecules .
BACKGROUND : Tuberculosis ( TB ) poses a major global health threat , especially in low- and middle-income countries with limited diagnostic infrastructure . Early and accurate detection is essential to control its spread and improve outcomes , but conventional methods like sputum microscopy and culture are slow , resource-intensive , and lack sensitivity for early or extrapulmonary cases . To address this , a cost-effective , disposable , paper-based interdigitated electrode ( IDE ) biosensor was developed , functionalized with green-synthesized silver nanoparticles ( GSSNPs ) and Multi-walled Carbon Nanotube - Zinc Oxide ( MWCNT-ZnO ) composite nanofibers . This innovative sensor combines affordability , portability , and high sensitivity , offering a practical and scalable solution for rapid TB diagnostics in resource-constrained settings . RESULTS : The developed paper-based interdigitated electrode ( IDE ) sensor demonstrates highly promising results for the early and accurate detection of tuberculosis ( TB ) antigens . The sensor achieved an exceptional lower limit of detection ( LOD ) of 79 fg/mL , enabling the detection of trace amounts of TB antigens . Furthermore , it exhibited a broad linear detection range from 10 pg/mL to 6 ng/mL , making it suitable for various clinical sample concentrations . This remarkable sensitivity and detection range highlight the unique capabilities of the functionalized MWCNT-ZnO composite nanofibers ( NFs ) and GSSNPs utilized in its design . The sensor ' s performance evaluation revealed high sensitivity , selectivity , and reproducibility , with minimal interference from non-specific interactions . Its disposable , scalable , and environmentally friendly design further enhances its suitability for point-of-care ( PoC ) applications in resource-limited settings , offering a rapid , cost-effective , and reliable diagnostic tool for managing TB , particularly in underserved regions . SIGNIFICANCE : This study concludes that the developed paper-based IDE sensor offers a highly sensitive , selective , and cost-effective solution for the early detection of TB antigens , with an impressive LOD of 79 fg/mL and a broad detection range . Its simple fabrication , disposable design , and environmentally friendly paper substrate make it ideal for point-of-care applications in resource-limited settings . This innovation is significant as it addresses critical diagnostic gaps , enabling early diagnosis and improved TB management , particularly in underserved regions where traditional methods fall short .
The perinatal period is crucial for fetal neurological development , relying on omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) for essential processes . Omega-3 PUFA , including docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , are precursors to a novel class of bioactive metabolites called specialized pro-resolving mediators ( SPMs ) , which have been suggested to have a dual purpose in mitigating neuroinflammation while simultaneously supporting cognitive outcomes , implicating a role in offspring neurodevelopment . DHA is evidenced for its role in early brain development , but the underlying mechanism it exerts its cognitive benefits remain unclear . Pregnant sows were fed a control diet ( CON ; n = 6 ) or a diet with DHA ( n = 6 , 75 mg DHA/kg BW/day ) from gestation through lactation . At weaning , piglets ( n = 2/sow ) underwent resting state-functional magnetic resonance imaging ( rs-fMRI ) to assess brain functional activation . Subsequently , brain tissue from prefrontal cortex , cerebellum , and hippocampus were collected from piglets . Tissue DHA and eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) -derived SPMs were quantified using LC-MS . Levels of SPMs were higher in the brains of piglets from DHA-fed sows , particularly in the prefrontal cortex and cerebellum , compared to control piglets . Additionally , a distinct association of several prefrontal SPMs with activation of the cerebellar functional network was marked in the piglet offspring . The findings highlight a potential for SPMs to function as mediators for neurodevelopmental programming , through contributing to inflammation resolution and neuronal connectivity . This work underscores the importance of maternal nutrition in shaping offspring brain health and lays the groundwork for targeted interventions leveraging the benefits of DHA and its bioactive metabolites .
BACKGROUND : Depression is associated with alterations in immuno-metabolic biomarkers , but it remains unclear whether these alterations are limited to specific markers , and whether there are subtypes of depression and depressive symptoms which are associated with specific patterns of immuno-metabolic dysfunction . METHODS : To investigate whether immuno-metabolic biomarkers could be used to profile subtypes of depression , we applied regression , clustering , and machine learning to a dataset comprising depression diagnosis , depressive and anxiety symptoms , and blood-based immunological and metabolic biomarkers ( n = 118 ) . We measured inflammatory proteins , cell counts , lipids , hormones , and metabolites from up to n = 4161 participants ( 2363 female , 337 with depression ) aged 24 years from the Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children birth cohort . RESULTS : Depression at age 24 was associated with both altered concentrations of immuno-metabolic markers , and increased extreme-valued inflammatory markers . Inflammatory and metabolic biomarkers show distinct , opposing associations with somatic and anxiety symptoms . We identified two latent components representing the relationship between blood biomarkers , symptoms , and covariates , one characterised by higher somatic symptoms and inflammatory markers ( neutrophils , WBC , IL-6 ) , and the other characterised by higher anxiety and worry and lower inflammatory markers ( CRP , WBC , IL-6 ) . Individuals with higher somatic-inflammatory component scores had greater depressive symptoms severity over the next five years . Immuno-metabolic biomarkers predicted depression diagnosis ( Balanced Accuracy = 580 ) and depression with high somatic symptoms ( Balanced Accuracy = 575 ) better than chance , but not depression with high anxiety symptoms ( Balanced Accuracy = 479 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Alterations in immuno-metabolic homeostasis is present in young adults with depression well before the typical age of onset of cardiometabolic diseases . The relationships between affective symptoms and blood immuno-metabolic biomarkers indicate two biotypes of depressive symptoms ( somatic-inflamed vs anxious-non-inflamed ) . These patterns are relevant for prognosis and prediction , highlighting the potential usefulness of immuno-metabolic biomarkers for depression subtyping .
Climate change is reducing crop yields and increasing price volatility for commodities like cocoa and palm oil , thereby driving the need for sustainable alternatives such as microbial lipid production . The oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica is a promising platform for lipid synthesis . However , its lipid accumulation has traditionally relied on nitrogen limitation , posing challenges for achieving high yields under nutrient-rich conditions . In this study , we engineered Y . lipolytica to enhance lipid accumulation and productivity in nutrient-rich environments . Key modifications included deleting MHY1 to prevent filamentous growth , overexpressing triacylglycerol ( TAG ) biosynthetic genes , disrupting fatty acid degradation , and redirecting phosphatidic acid flux toward TAG biosynthesis by reducing phospholipid production through OPI3 deletion and CDS1 mutation . Furthermore , deletion of CEX1 to block citrate excretion significantly enhanced lipid accumulation . The resulting strain , CJ0415 , achieved a lipid production of 6 g/L with a lipid content of 8 % and a record lipid productivity of 06 g/L/h under nutrient-rich conditions in a 5-L fermenter , representing a 6-fold increase compared to nitrogen-limited conditions . These findings underscore the potential of Y . lipolytica as a robust platform for scalable , industrial lipid production under nutrient-rich conditions .
This Conference Report recaps recent advances in the research on phospholipids and their applications for advanced drug delivery and analytical purposes that have been presented at the " 8th International Symposium on Phospholipids in Pharmaceutical Research " of the Phospholipid Research Center ( PRC ) , held from September 09-11 , 2024 , at the University of Heidelberg , Germany . The PRC is a non-profit organization focused on expanding and sharing scientific and technological knowledge of phospholipids in pharmaceutical and related applications . This is accomplished by , e . g . , funding doctoral and postdoctoral research projects at universities worldwide . The PRC organizes this symposium every two years , at which international experts from science and industry present innovative and new applications of phospholipids . This year ' s symposium highlighted advancements in lipid-based gene and RNA delivery , anisotropic lipid nanoparticles , PEGylation challenges , tetraether lipids for drug delivery , ethical considerations in publishing , multifunctional lipopeptides , and phospholipid applications in therapeutics . Discussions also showcased award-winning research on optimizing liposome drug compatibility , reflecting the expanding role of phospholipids in pharmaceutical science .
The discovery and conceptualization of ferroptosis as regulated , iron-catalyzed cell death driven by excessive lipid peroxidation triggered re-evaluation of lipid hydroperoxides in connection with health and disease . Free and ester forms of polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) are oxidized in vivo by multiple oxidizing species to produce lipid hydroperoxides as primary products , some purposely while others unintentionally . The detailed analysis of isomer distribution of lipid hydroperoxides enables us to identify the responsible oxidants . Linoleates , the most abundant PUFA in humans , are oxidized to give multiple isomers of hydroperoxyoctadecadienoates ( H ( p ) ODEs ) as primary major products , racemic trans , trans-9- and 13-H ( p ) ODEs , 13 ( S ) -cis , trans-H ( p ) ODE , and 10- and 12-H ( p ) ODEs being specific biomarker for the oxidation by free radicals , lipoxygenase ( LOX ) , and singlet oxygen , respectively . Cholesterol is another important lipid and its hydroperoxides are produced solely by non-enzymatic oxidation , the major products being cholesterol 7-hydroperoxide and 5-hydroperoxide by free radicals and singlet oxygen , respectively . The available data obtained from human samples show that lipid hydroperoxides are produced in vivo primarily by free radical mediated lipid peroxidation and that the contribution of LOXs s and singlet oxygen is small . Multiple antioxidants having different functions play their respective roles in the physiological defense network against detrimental lipid peroxidation and ferroptosis . The fact that lipid hydroperoxides are produced in vivo mainly by free radical mediated lipid peroxidation suggests that radical scavenging antioxidants act as essential ferroptosis inhibitors , which was substantiated by many studies . Considering the reactivity and physiological concentrations , it may be said that vitamins E and C play the primary roles as biological radical scavenging antioxidants against ferroptosis by synergistic interactions . Novel synthetic antioxidants with higher reactivity than natural antioxidants have been reported and their biological effects should be assessed . The factors that determine antioxidant effects in vivo are critically reviewed .
Microplastics have emerged as persistent organic pollutants , generating significant concerns regarding their potential toxicity . Nevertheless , the impact of microplastics ( MPs ) on atherosclerosis in mammals remains uncertain . The present study investigated the deleterious effects of polystyrene microplastics ( PS-MPs ) on the cardiovascular system of mice . A total of thirty-six male ApoE ( -/- ) mice were divided into three groups : a control group and two experimental groups . The experimental groups were subjected to the exposure of 5 mum PS-MPs at concentrations of 1 mug/ml and 10 mug/ml , respectively , for twelve weeks . In parallel , HUVECs were treated with the same concentrations of PS-MPs to assess cellular responses . Our results indicate that PS-MPs exposure increased mouse body weight , disrupted lipid metabolism , and exacerbated atherosclerosis . Additionally , both in vivo and in vitro studies indicate that PS-MPs can induce oxidative stress and promote EndMT through the BMP signaling pathway . These findings suggest that PS-MPs may trigcger atherosclerosis and cardiovascular toxicity by activating the BMP pathway and driving EndMT via oxidative stress . In summary , this study elucidates the cardiovascular deleterious effects induced by PS-MPs in mice , providing new insights into the toxicity of PS-MPs in mammalian organisms .
Aquatic organisms are often exposed to various chemicals , whose individual components are likely to produce different responses within the organisms and/or interact leading to toxic effects . The Phrynops geoffroanus species ( " Geoffroy ' s side-necked turtle " , Schweigger , 1812 ) , a freshwater turtle endemic of South America , is commonly found in polluted rivers that cross the urban area and receive domestic and industrial wastewater effluents . In order to evaluate changes in biochemical biomarker profiles in different organs ( liver , heart , lung , pancreas , small and large intestines ) of P . geoffroanus from an anthropized aquatic environment , we analyzed the responses of enzymes involved in xenobiotic biotransformation , antioxidant enzymes , and lipid peroxidation levels . Acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) activity was also assessed to check for neurotoxic effects . Results revealed that the poor water quality of a highly anthropized stream perturbed the biochemical parameters of free-living freshwater turtles . Compared to animals from the reference site ( breeding farm ) , those from the polluted site presented increased biotransformation activity , antioxidant responses , and lipid peroxidation levels , indicative of oxidative stress . AChE activity was decreased in the pancreas . Alterations of different biomarkers in specific organs indicated differences in susceptibility among different organs of this species . These data contribute to a better understanding of how these animals respond to environmental pollutants , suggesting this species as good sentinel organisms for ecotoxicological studies .
This study explored the protective effects of hesperidin ( HES ) against ifosfamide ( IFA ) -induced nephrotoxicity in rats using biochemical , histopathological , and immunohistochemical techniques . The rats were administered IFA at a dose of 500 mg/kg body weight , followed by oral HES treatment at doses of 200 and 300 mg/kg body weight . The results demonstrated that HES significantly reduced IFA-induced increases in urea and creatinine levels , indicating improved kidney function . HES was shown to mitigate IFA-induced lipid peroxidation , likely due to its antioxidant properties , and to enhance the activities of key antioxidant enzymes , including catalase ( CAT ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and glutathione peroxidase ( GPx ) , as well as elevate glutathione ( GSH ) levels . Biochemical and immunohistochemical analyses further revealed that HES exhibited anti-inflammatory , antiapoptotic and anti-endoplasmic reticulum stress effects , suppressing the elevated levels of nuclear factor kappa-B ( NF-kappaB ) , interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , Caspase-3 , 6 , 9 , Bax , Apaf1 , p53 , serine/threonine-protein kinase/endoribonuclease inositol-requiring enzyme 1alpha ( IRE1alpha ) , glucose-regulated protein 78 ( GRP78 ) , activating transcription factor 6 ( ATF-6 ) , and protein kinase R-like ER kinase ( PERK ) , CHOP and alleviating level of Bcl-2 in IFA-exposed kidney tissue . Additionally , the immunohistochemical staining results for TIM-1 in rat kidney tissues showed minimal expression in the control and HES groups . However , the IFA-treated group exhibited a significant increase in TIM-1 expression . Co-administration of IFA with HES at 200 or 300 mg/kg resulted in a significant reduction in TIM-1 expression . In conclusion , these results demonstrate that HES efficiently alleviated kidney toxicity induced by IFA .
Ferroptosis is gaining attention as a potential cancer immunotherapy strategy , as it can stimulate antitumor responses by enhancing dendritic cell ( DC ) activation and the infiltration of cytotoxic T cells ( CTLs ) . However , cancer cells often develop resistance to ferroptosis , reducing the effectiveness of existing treatments . This study demonstrates a novel mitochondria-targeted ferroptosis inducer , designated mitoFePDA@R , which is engineered to achieve a " closed-loop " cancer immunotherapy strategy of ferroptosis induction , antitumor immune activation , and ferroptosis enhancement . In this strategy , mitoFePDA@R is designed to release Fe ( 2+ ) and the mitoGPX4 inhibitor RSL3 within tumor mitochondria , thereby effectively inducing ferroptosis and activating strong antitumor immune responses . Additionally , interferon gamma ( IFN-gamma ) released from CTLs inhibits GSH synthesis , which further enhances the ferroptosis sensitivity of tumor cells to form a " closed-loop " strategy . In vitro studies indicated that mitoFePDA@R induced strong ferroptosis in tumor cells by accumulating lipid peroxides ( LPO ) in mitochondria ( which lacks mitochondria targeting ) . Animal studies confirmed that mitoFePDA@R effectively triggered ferroptosis and activated subsequent antitumor immune responses , leading to significant tumor growth inhibition . This provides a viable and effective strategy for ferroptosis-associated cancer immunotherapy .
Mitochondria play a crucial role in cellular energy production , signaling and homeostasis . Respiratory supercomplexes represent evolutionary well-conserved , stable associations between membrane complexes and molecules , including proteins and lipids , within the inner mitochondrial membrane . They dynamically respond to metabolic demands and enhance the electron transfer rate , thereby reducing the production of ROS . Recent research has unveiled cytochrome c , a mobile electron carrier between complexes III and IV , as a potential key player in orchestrating the formation of these supra-associations . This study centers on elucidating the role of cytochrome c in modulating the assembly of supercomplexes , using the Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast as a model system for mitochondrial metabolism . BN-PAGE and mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis were employed to examine supercomplex organization in yeast strains expressing different cytochrome c isoforms , grown under fermentative and respiratory conditions . Our results demonstrate that both isoforms of cytochrome c contribute to supercomplex assembly , with isoform-2 significantly improving electron transfer and lowering ROS levels . We propose a model in which cytochrome c acts as a scaffold for the recruitment of assembly factors , facilitating the formation of higher order supercomplexes such as IIIIV . This model highlights cytochrome c ' s role beyond electron transfer , as it regulates supercomplex assembly and mitochondrial homeostasis .
Platycodon grandiflorum ( PG ) is a traditional medicinal herb with a history of >2000 years , exhibiting various biological activities . However , its anti-lung cancer potential remains largely unexplored . This study aimed to extract Platycodon grandiflorum polysaccharides ( PGP ) using an environmentally friendly natural deep eutectic solvent ( NADES ) system and evaluate their anti-lung cancer activity . An NADES system composed of choline chloride and oxalic acid ( 1 : 3 M ratio ) was selected based on carbohydrate yield . The extraction conditions were optimized using Box-Behnken design ( BBD ) . The structural characterization of PGP was performed using ultraviolet spectroscopy , fourier transform infrared ( FT-IR ) spectroscopy , and high-performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) , revealing that PGP are glucans with a molecular weight of 036 kDa and a glucose content of 8 % . Biological assays demonstrated that PGP promoted ferroptosis in H1299 cells through mitochondrial dysfunction , lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , and overproduction of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Also , PGP inhibited cell migration by modulating epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) -related protein expression . These findings provide novel insights into the pharmacological basis of PG and support its potential application in lung cancer therapy .
This project aimed to investigate the effect of lipid rancidity of wheat germ during storage on oxidation of wheat germ protein ( WGP ) . Wheat germ was stored at 25 degrees C under 70 % relative humidity for 2 , 4 , 10 , and 16 days . Oxidative and structural changes in WGP were subsequently characterized . The types and sites of oxidative modifications in WGP were analyzed using LC-MS/MS-based proteomics . Results showed that fatty acid value gradually increased during storage . Carbonyl content increased from 31 +/- 14 to 96 +/- 43 nmol/mg prot during storage . After 16 days of storage , free sulfhydryl content decreased by 53 % , and total sulfhydryl content by 4 % . Disulfide bonds increased by 66 % , and di-tyrosine by 39 % . These data indicate that WGP oxidation occurred concomitantly with lipid oxidation . Oxidation induced changes in surface hydrophobicity , tertiary structure , and secondary structure , accompanied by protein aggregation . Amino acid composition was altered after oxidation , with nearly all amino acids showing reduced levels . Tyr , Pro , His , and Lys exhibited the most significant losses , decreasing by 95 % , 14 % , 64 % , and 42 % , respectively , after 16 days of storage . The proteomic results showed that the amount of oxidized peptide increased from 174 in the fresh sample to 353 in the samples stored for 16 days . Primary modification types included oxidation , 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal adduction , and carbonylation . This study elucidates the oxidation mechanism of WGP induced by lipid oxidation during storage and provides a scientific basis for precise control of WGP oxidation .
Liver lipid management is a recognized strategy for the treatment and prevention of degenerative diseases and metabolic syndrome . Giant swamp taro ( GST ) starches are biomolecules extracted from GST ( Cyrtosperma merkusii ) sourced from Sangihe Island , North Sulawesi , Indonesia . GST contains naturally occurring resistant starch types 1 and GST starch was characterized by observing its structural compositions , crystallinity structure , and granule microstructure using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy , X-ray diffraction , and scanning electron microscopy , respectively , which confirmed the extracted starch macromolecule and natural presence of resistant starch in GST . GST starch was fed to male Sprague-Dawley rats ( Rattus norvegicus ) induced with a high-fat diet ( HFD ) . These rats were compared to a normal group fed a ruminant feed , a negative control group fed only an HFD , a group administered glibenclamide , and a group administered simvastatin . The results showed that GST starch has a positive impact on oxidative stress and lipid metabolism regulation . In terms of hepatoprotective activity , GST was more closely associated with lipid regulation than with sugar metabolism , as indicated by its stronger correlation with simvastatin than with glibenclamide . The resistant starch in GST is likely involved in the regulation of gut microbiota composition ; however , this mechanism has yet to be confirmed .
Scale drop disease virus ( SDDV ) is a distinct member in genus Megalocytivirus of family Iridoviridae , garnering increasing attention due to its significant threat to teleost . Ferroptosis is a new type of cell death discovered recently and involved in various viral infections . Knowledges on SDDV induced ferroptosis remains unclear . Here , we demonstrated that SDDV infection triggers ferroptosis , as evidenced by hallmark features such as iron overload , massive lipid peroxides accumulation , glutathione depletion and glutathione peroxidase 4 ( gpx4 ) downregulation . SDDV-infected MFF-1 cells exhibited increased reactive oxygen species production and mitochondrial shrinkage . Treatment with Ferrostatin-1 , a potent ferroptosis inhibitor , significantly attenuated SDDV replication in MFF-1 cells and could improve the survival of mandarin fish upon SDDV challenge . Treatment with an iron chelator mitigated ferroptosis and reduced the mortality of mandarin fish following SDDV infection , suggesting that SDDV-induced ferroptosis is iron-dependent . Finally , we demonstrated that SDDV infection could upregulate the expression of transferrin receptor protein 1 ( TfR1 ) , a critical iron transporter , to disrupt cellular iron homeostasis , induce ferroptosis , and then facilitate viral infection . Collectively , our findings provide compelling evidence that SDDV infection induces ferroptosis by targeting TfR1 to facilitate virus infection . Inhibiting ferroptosis maybe represent a promising anti-viral strategy for combating SDDV infection in aquaculture .
Cold exposure is a selective environmental stress that elicits a rapid metabolic shift to maintain energy homeostasis . In response to cold exposure , the liver rewires the metabolic state , shifting from glucose to lipid catabolism . By probing the liver lipids in cold exposure , we observed that the lysosomal bis ( monoacylglycero ) phosphate ( BMP ) lipids were rapidly increased during cold exposure . BMP lipid changes occurred independently of lysosomal abundance but were dependent on the lysosomal transcriptional regulator transcription factor EB ( TFEB ) . Knockdown of Tfeb in hepatocytes decreased BMP lipid levels and led to cold intolerance in mice . We assessed TFEB-binding sites of lysosomal genes and determined that the phospholipase a2 group XV ( PLA2G15 ) regulates BMP lipid catabolism . Decreasing Pla2g15 levels in mice increased BMP lipids , ablated the cold-induced rise in BMP lipids , and improved cold tolerance . Mutation of the catalytic site of PLA2G15 ablated the BMP lipid breakdown . Together , our studies uncover TFEB regulation of BMP lipids through PLA2G15 catabolism .
Background Constitutional thinness ( CT ) is an uncommon condition , allegedly non-pathological , defined by a persistently low body mass index ( BMI <18 kg/m ) enduring from childhood through to later stages of life , without underlying chronic illnesses or hormonal abnormalities . Although CT is not associated with poor health outcomes , its long-term cardiovascular and metabolic implications remain unclear . Given that patients with CT often aim to achieve weight gain , and considering the lack of studies examining the outcomes of high-calorie dietary interventions in this population , we aimed to evaluate vascular and metabolic risk factors associated with atherosclerosis in CT individuals . Methods This prospective before-and-after study involved 60 non-smoking , normotensive , normoglycemic participants with CT , all exhibiting normal lipid profiles ( HDL : 8 +/- 16 mg/dL ; LDL : 66 +/- 9 mg/dL ) . Changes in carotid intima-media thickness ( CIMT ) , flow-mediated dilation ( FMD ) , fasting and postprandial blood glucose levels before ( T0 ) and after ( T1 ) a 3-month high-calorie diet intervention were assessed using paired Student ' s t-test . In addition , postprandial insulin levels were evaluated to capture potential metabolic adaptations . Results No significant changes were observed in CIMT ( p = 54 ) , FMD% ( p = 423 ) , BMI ( p = 978 ) , fasting ( p = 297 ) or postprandial ( p = 511 ) glucose levels , or lipid profiles ( total cholesterol p = 138 , HDL p = 858 , LDL p = 66 ) after the 3-month high-calorie diet intervention . Both CIMT and FMD% remained within normal ranges at baseline and follow-up , suggesting that in the short term , individuals with CT do not experience substantial alterations in vascular or metabolic parameters despite increased caloric intake . A post-hoc power analysis based on postprandial insulin ( p = 007 ) showed a large effect size ( Cohen ' s d = 71 ) , with a power of 82% using G*Power software . Conclusions Short-term high-calorie dietary intervention does not lead to significant cardiovascular or metabolic changes in individuals with CT . However , these findings should be interpreted with caution due to the small sample size and short duration . Further studies with longer follow-up and larger sample sizes , or different dietary compositions , may be necessary to evaluate long-term effects . Keywords : constitutional thinness , carotid intima-media thickness , flow-mediated dilation , high-calorie diet , cardiovascular health , metabolic stability .
Aging manifests a decline of immune function , induces microbiome dysbiosis , drives organ inflammation , and impedes the resolution of inflammation . However , the mechanisms underlying age-related intestinal inflammation remain poorly described . Here , we find that the resolution of T cell-initiated intestinal inflammation is impaired with aging . This impairment is mediated by disrupting the immune-microbiota interplay , controlled by intestinal eicosanoid metabolism . Pharmacologically inhibiting eicosanoid biosynthesis , blocking the prostaglandin E receptor subtype 4 ( EP4 ) , or genetically ablating EP4 diminishes age-related impairment of intestinal inflammation resolution . Mechanistically , mononuclear phagocyte-intrinsic eicosanoid-EP4 signaling impedes the resolution of intestinal inflammation through fostering gut microbial dysbiosis and , more importantly , interrupting segmented filamentous bacterial adhesion to the intestinal epithelium . Colonization with EP4-ablated mouse microbiota or segmented filamentous bacteria improves the resolution of intestinal inflammation . These findings reveal that eicosanoid-dependent immune-microbiota interactions impair inflammation resolution in the aged intestine , highlighting potential intervention strategies for improving age-related gut health .
Antiviral defense requires signal transmission that connects the perception of viral infection to activation of plant immunity . Findings in Nature by Huang et al . describe key players whereby RING1-IBR-RING2-type ubiquitin ligase ( RBRL ) recognizes viral coat proteins to release NINJA3-mediated suppression of jasmonate signaling and initiate broad-spectrum antiviral responses in rice .
Despite intensive efforts to develop different types of vaccines against dengue virus ( DENV ) , safe and effective products are still lacking . Progress toward this goal has been especially hindered by a pathological phenomenon known as antibody-dependent enhancement ( ADE ) . In our previous study , we demonstrated that the N8 epitope within the envelope ( E ) protein of DENV2 plays a role in cross-reactivity and infection enhancement . Building on these findings , we designed mRNAs encoding structurally modified DENV2 E proteins ( E ( 1-394 ) -N8R ) to assess their antibody neutralization activity and infection-enhancing effects in comparison to wild-type E proteins ( E ( 1-394 ) -WT ) . Mice were immunized using mRNA-containing lipid nanoparticles ( mRNA-LNPs ) , carrying either the modified ( N8R-mRNA-LNP ) or wild-type ( WT-mRNA-LNP ) DENV2 mRNA vaccines . Animals immunized with N8R-mRNA-LNP exhibited higher antibody titers and enhanced neutralizing activity , along with a reduced ADE burden compared to those immunized with WT-mRNA-LNP . Furthermore , sera from N8R-mRNA-LNP-immunized animals demonstrated superior protective effects in vivo compared to sera from WT-mRNA-LNP-immunized animals . Based on these findings , mRNA vaccines with enhancing epitope modification may allow for the generation of highly effective dengue tetravalent mRNA vaccines with low potential for ADE .
Silver indium selenide - AgInSe ( AISe ) quantum dots ( QDs ) are emerging as a safe alternative to cadmium-containing QDs , particularly for biomedical applications such as imaging , probing individual molecules , and photodynamic therapy cancer . However , research on the toxicity and health risks of AISe QDs remains limited . This study aimed to evaluate the safety of AISe QDs , synthesized through green aqueous electrosynthesis , coated with zinc sulphide ( ZnS ) , and stabilized with l-glutathione ( GSH ) . To assess potential nanotoxicity , third-instar Drosophila melanogaster larvae were fed a standard diet supplemented with AISe@ZnS QDs at concentrations of 10 , 50 , 150 and 300 mug/mL for 24 h . Parameters evaluated included toxicity ( survival , negative geotaxis , phenotypic analysis ) , oxidative stress ( lipid peroxidation ( MDA ) , total ( PSH ) and non-total ( NPSH ) protein content , free iron ( Fe ( 2+ ) ) levels ) , and genotoxicity ( Comet assay ) . No evidence of toxicity , induction of oxidative stress and primary DNA damage ( Comet assay ) was observed in D . melanogaster larvae exposed to these QDs . This study demonstrates the biocompatibility of AISe@ZnS QDs and indicates that they do not present toxicity or genotoxicity to D . melanogaster , reinforcing the importance of further studies into their safety and applications .
This study aimed to evaluate the effects of different bile acid levels in the diet on the growth performance , hepatic lipid metabolism , antioxidant capacity , and cecal microbiota of Danzhou chickens . 480 one-day-old male Danzhou chickens were randomly divided into four treatments and fed diets supplemented with 0 , 200 , 400 , or 800 mg/kg bile acids . The trial lasted for 35 days . The results indicated that supplementing the diet with 400 mg/kg bile acids significantly increased average daily weight gain and reduced the feed conversion ratio ( P < 05 ) . Bile acid supplementation modulated serum lipid profiles , with 800 mg/kg increasing total bile acid levels , while 400 mg/kg reduced triglyceride and total cholesterol concentrations ( P < 05 ) . In the liver , 400 mg/kg bile acids increased total bile acid content , reduced triglycerides and total cholesterol accumulation , upregulated phospholipase C delta 1 , acyl-CoA oxidase 1 , and apolipoprotein A1 expression , and enhanced hepatic lipase and lipoprotein lipase activities ( P < 05 ) , indicating alleviated lipid deposition . All bile acids treatments improved antioxidant capacity by elevating total antioxidant capacity , catalase , superoxide dismutase , and glutathione peroxidase levels ( P < 05 ) while reducing malondialdehyde ( P < 05 ) in serum and liver , with optimal effects at 400 mg/kg . Bile acid supplementation increased levels of immunoglobulins ( IgA and IgG ) and the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 ( P < 05 ) , while reducing levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta ( P < 05 ) . Morphological analysis of the intestine revealed that 400 mg/kg of bile acids significantly enhanced villus height and the villus height-to-crypt depth ratio ( P < 05 ) in both the duodenum and ileum . Cecal microbiota analysis revealed that supplementation with 400 mg/kg bile acids increased microbial diversity and enriched Christensenellaceae_R-7_group and Weissella , whereas Barnesiellaceae_unclassified , Campylobacter , and Lactobacillus were predominant in the CON . In conclusion , the results suggest that dietary supplementation with 400 mg/kg of bile acids enhances antioxidant capacity and immune function in Danzhou chickens , potentially improving serum and hepatic lipid metabolism by modulating the cecal microbiota , thereby promoting growth performance .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is a prevalent chronic liver disease , encompassing a spectrum from simple steatosis to steatohepatitis ( MASH ) , cirrhosis , and hepatocellular carcinoma . As part of metabolic syndrome , MASLD/MASH is characterized by inflammation , oxidative stress , and fibrosis , highlighting the need for targeted therapies . The dysregulation of Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription ( JAK/STAT ) pathway and its negative regulators the suppressors of cytokine signaling ( SOCS ) , plays a critical role in liver function and contributes to MASLD progression . AIM : Based on a SOCS1 functional domain , we developed mimetic peptides ( linear and cyclic ) targeting JAK activity and assessed their hepatoprotective potential in experimental MASLD/MASH . RESULTS : In dietary mouse models of MASLD/MASH , the administration of peptides ameliorated liver damage at both early and advanced stages , as evidenced by significant decreases in serum transaminases and hepatic content of lipids , inflammatory cells , and collagen . Treatment attenuated hepatic STAT1/3 activation and downregulated genes involved in inflammation , fibrosis , and lipid metabolism . Livers from treated mice exhibited lower levels of oxidative damage markers , reduced expression of NADPH oxidase 1 ( NOX1 ) , and upregulation of the antioxidant genes catalase and superoxide dismutase . In vitro , the peptides were safe for hepatocytes at different doses and effectively counteracted palmitate-induced cytotoxicity , superoxide anion production , and cytokine and NOX1 expression , while increasing anti-inflammatory and antioxidant genes . CONCLUSIONS : SOCS1 mimetic peptides exhibit hepatoprotective effects in experimental MASLD/MASH by modulating lipotoxicity , inflammation , redox balance and fibrogenesis . This proof-of-concept supports their potential as candidates for preclinical MASLD therapy development .
BACKGROUND : Transferrin receptor 1 ( TFR1 ) , a major iron receptor for immune cells , could impair T cell metabolism and function in systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) , leading us to investigate the effects of TFR1 and possible mechanisms on lupus B cells . METHODS : B cells from lupus mouse models and systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) patients were evaluated using flow cytometry ( FCM ) for levels of TFR1 , intracellular iron deposition , reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , lipid peroxidation , and B-cell subsets . Transcript levels of TFR1 were assessed using reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) , and upstream regulatory molecules were identified by in vitro gene silencing . RESULTS : An agonist of toll-like receptor 7 ( TLR7 ) , R848 treatment significantly increased TFR1 expression in B cells from C57BL/6 ( B6 ) mice but not those from MRL/lpr mice . In in vitro cultures of mouse splenocytes , TLR7 dose-dependently promoted TFR1 expression , and its effect was probably mediated by P Anti-TFR1 antibody effectively inhibited intracellular iron deposition in lupus B cells , reduced ROS and lipid peroxidation , and prevented the production of plasmablasts and autoantibodies . Among different B cell subsets , TFR1 was predominantly expressed in double negative ( DN ) B cells , with a more pronounced effect on DN2 B cells , which could be normalized by ROS inhibitors . Similarly , in human studies , TFR1 was highly expressed in B cells of SLE patients and closely correlated with TLR7 expression and disease activity scores , as well as iron deposition and ROS production . A significant reduction in ROS production was observed after blocking TFR CONCLUSIONS : TLR7-regulated TFR1 may drive B-cell autoimmunity by promoting ROS production , thus contributing to SLE pathogenesis .
As the incidence of ulcerative colitis ( UC ) has increased globally , there is a great unmet clinical need for efficacious , tolerable , and economical , orally administered drugs for its treatment . To help meet this need , we investigated anti-inflammatory small-molecule drugs with a novel structure , high activity , and high selectivity for the treatment of UC . Here , we designed and synthesized a series of novel anti-inflammatory compounds based on the molecular hybridization strategy by merging fragments from anti-inflammatory drugs . Among them , compound 11a best-exhibited lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced inflammation in RAW7 cells in vitro . Anti-inflammatory mechanism studies showed that compound 11a inhibited the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and alleviated the inflammatory process by blocking the activation of the ASK1/p38 MAPKs/NF-kappaB signaling pathway in LPS-stimulated RAW7 cells . Analysis of the in vivo biological activity showed that compound 11a significantly alleviated dextran sodium sulfate-induced ulcerative colitis in mice while demonstrating an excellent safety in acute toxicity tests . Our study provides a novel compound for the treatment of UC that is worthy of further investigation and structural optimization .
Diabetic wound healing is extremely difficult , originating from the aspects of bacterial infection , continuous inflammation , hypoxia and excessive reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , etc . Consequently , multifunctional nanoplatforms capable of highly eliminating bacteria , scavenging ROS and promoting angiogenesis possess a promising prospect . This work reports our fabrication of lipopeptide/TiCT ( x ) MXene nanohybrid to cure bacteria-infected diabetic wounds . TiCT ( x ) nanosheet has been employed to disrupt the bacterial membrane through both the physical puncture mediated by direct contact and mild-temperature photothermal therapy ( PTT ) due to its excellent photothermal conversion efficiency . Moreover , it exhibits the capacities of ROS scavenging and pro-angiogenesis during the diabetic wound healing process . Positively charged lipopeptide integration on 2D TiCT ( x ) MXene improves the contact of TiCT ( x ) nanosheet with negative bacterial membrane for membrane-anchoring . More importantly , drug-free lipopeptide shows antibacterial capacity , which compensates the decline in therapeutic efficacy of mild-temperature PTT because of its inferior heat intensity . The cooperation between 2D TiCT ( x ) MXene and therapeutic lipopeptide allows for the effective cure on bacteria-infected diabetic wound .
BACKGROUND : Nationally representative data on recent trends in racial/ethnic differences in metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) prevalence and treatment are sparse . OBJECTIVES : The purpose of this study was to examine 20-year trends in the prevalence , treatment , and interrelationships of MetS and its individual components among U . S . adults , overall and by race/ethnicity . METHODS : We evaluated trends from 1999 to 2018 in 20 , 397 adults using data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey . Age-standardized prevalence estimates were calculated for MetS , its components , and related prescription drug use . Trends were assessed using weighted linear regression , and racial/ethnic disparities were examined using t-tests . RESULTS : The mean age was 5 ( 4-6 ) years ; 3% were female ; 9% , 8% , and 4% were White , Black , and Hispanic , respectively . MetS prevalence increased significantly from 1999 to 2018 across all groups ( P < 001 ) . Among MetS components , waist circumference and fasting glucose increased across all groups , while triglycerides increased only among Black individuals . Lipid-lowering medication use increased ( P < 001 ) , but racial/ethnic disparities persisted . Compared to White individuals , Hispanic individuals had lower antihypertensive and lipid-lowering medication use ( P < 01 ) . Despite increased prescriptions , <65% of eligible individuals received lipid-lowering therapy , and <35% received antihyperglycemic therapy , highlighting substantial treatment gaps . Racial/ethnic differences in MetS component relationships were observed : blood pressure played a larger role in Black individuals , while fasting glucose was more prominent in Hispanic individuals . CONCLUSIONS : MetS prevalence has increased over 2 decades . Persistent racial/ethnic disparities exist in antihypertensive , antihyperglycemic , and lipid-lowering medication use . Across all racial/ethnic subgroups , large opportunities remain for improving treatment strategies among individuals with medication indications .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Bariatric surgery ( BS ) leads to a durable weight loss and remission of diabetes , but the long-term impact on hypertension and lipid disorders is not unequivocal . The aim of the study was to assess the impact of BS on the level of cardiovascular ( CV ) risk factors and estimate CV risk 10 years following BS . METHODS : The study included patients who underwent BS in 2010-2015 , re-evaluated in 2023- The CV risk was estimated using the Pooled Cohort Equations calculator . RESULTS : The analysis included 188 patients ( 76 % women ) , with a mean age of 3 +/- 8 years , who underwent sleeve gastrectomy ( 4 % ) and gastric bypass ( 6 % ) . The observation period lasted 10 ( 9-11 ) years , and BMI decreased from 7 ( 2-0 ) kg/m2 to 9 ( 4-8 ) kg/m2 ( p < 001 ) . The prevalence of hypertension decreased from 6 % to 0 % ( p < 05 ) , while the prevalence of diabetes ( 9 % vs . 9 % ; p = 08 ) , hypercholesterolemia ( 1 % vs . 7 % ; p = 16 ) , and smoking ( from 6 % to 4 % ; p = 39 ) did not change significantly . CV risk increased from 6 % ( 6-2 % ) to 6 % ( 0-7 % ) ( p < 001 ) . Since patients examined during the follow-up examination were 10 years older and since age is a main driver of CV risk , we also calculated CV risk using the baseline age , which was significantly lower , 1 % ( 4-0 % ; p < 001 vs baseline ) . CONCLUSIONS : Long-term weight reduction following BS is related to the decrease in the estimated CV risk .
Etomidate ( ETO ) , a widely used anesthetic , has emerged as a concerning environmental contaminant due to its increasing misuse and demonstrated neurotoxicity in aquatic organisms . This study employed an integrated multi-omics strategy to investigate the developmental neurotoxic effects of ETO in zebrafish ( Danio rerio ) . ETO exposure induced dose-dependent toxicity in zebrafish embryos , characterized by decreased hatching rates ( 10-20 % ) , elevated mortality ( up to 30 % ) , and morphological abnormalities such as scoliosis and pericardial edema . Behavioral assays revealed marked locomotor suppression ( 40-65 % reduction ) and disrupted circadian rhythmicity . Neurochemical profiling indicated a 1-fold increase in dopamine levels , accompanied by significant reductions in GABAergic ( 38 % ) and serotonergic ( 42 % ) signaling , consistent with transcriptomic downregulation of related pathway genes . Metabolomic analysis revealed dysregulated lipid metabolism , including a 2-fold increase in eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) , and perturbations in phenylalanine metabolism . Transgenic zebrafish models ( Tg ( hb9 : eGFP ) , Tg ( coro1a : DsRed ) , Tg ( elavl3 : GCaMP6f ) ) further demonstrated motor neuron damage , inflammatory cell infiltration in the brain , and disrupted Ca ( 2 + ) dynamics , indicating blood-brain barrier disruption and neuroinflammation responses . Molecular docking analysis confirmed ETO ' s binding affinity for GABA-A receptors , aligning with observed neurotransmitter imbalances . These findings elucidate ETO ' s neurotoxic mechanisms , involving neurotransmitter imbalance , metabolic disruption , and neuroinflammatory . The results underscore the dual threat of ETO as both an emerging aquatic pollutant and a developmental neurotoxicant , highlighting the urgent need for stricter environmental monitoring and a reevaluation of its safety profile , particularly during critical developmental windows .
N-ethyl perfluorooctane sulfonamidoethanol ( N-EtFOSE ) , a known volatile perfluorooctane sulfonate ( PFOS ) precursor ( PreFOS ) , has been widely detected in the environment . However , the mechanisms underlying the behaviors and phytotoxicity of N-EtFOSE in plants are unknown . Integrative physio-biochemical and transcriptomic analyses were used to reveal the accumulation , biotransformation , and toxicity of N-EtFOSE in pakchoi ( Brassica chinensis L . ) through root and foliar exposure experiments . Root uptake from exposure medium and efficient translocation to shoot , and foliar uptake from air and inefficient root transfer of N-EtFOSE were observed . N-EtFOSE was biotransformed into various PreFOSs and ultimately into PFOS , with N-ethyl perfluorooctane sulfonamide ( N-EtFOSA ) identified as the major intermediate . Enzyme assays and gene expression analyses indicated that this biotransformation was mediated by alcohol dehydrogenase , aldehyde dehydrogenase , cytochrome P450 , glutathione S-transferase , and ATP-binding cassette transporters . N-EtFOSE led to inhibition of plant growth , photosynthetic rate , and respiration rate , as well as to lipid peroxidation , oxidative damage and subcellular damage . Transcriptomic analysis revealed that differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) mainly relative to plant endogenous phytohormones homeostasis , regulation of photosynthesis and respiration , oxidative stress , and xenobiotic metabolism and detoxification . This study highlighted the degradation and stress response mechanisms of N-EtFOSE in plants , providing important information to evaluate the environmental risks of volatile per/polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFASs ) .
The study presented the differential responses of male and female largemouth bass fed a high-fat diet , focusing on growth performance , hepatic transcriptomics , and lipid metabolism . The high-fat diet , 23 % crude protein and 46 % crude fat , was formulated and fed to female and male largemouth bass for 73 days separately . Growth parameters , such as final weight , weight gain ( WG ) and specific growth rate ( SGR ) , demonstrated superior performance in males compared to females fed the high-fat diet . Hepatic transcriptomic analysis between the sexes under high-fat diet revealed totally 267 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , of which 132 were up-regulated and 135 down-regulated . Notably , genes implicated in lipid biosynthesis , such as elovl5 , pap , aacs , hmgcra , fdft1 , ebp , and dhcr24 , were found to be down-regulated in males and are enriched in metabolic pathways . This suggests a sex-dependent modulation of lipid metabolism . Furthermore , the study revealed a stark contrast in hepatic mRNA expression levels of genes pivotal for lipid anabolism , with acc1 , ppargamma , srebf1 , fasn , and scd being more highly expressed in females compared to males . Conversely , genes associated with lipid catabolism , including cpt1 and hsl , showed elevated expression in males . These findings underscore the interplay between sex , diet , and metabolic regulation in largemouth bass . The study ' s contributions to our understanding of physiological variances between male and female largemouth bass under high-fat diet are significant , offering valuable insights for the nutritional strategies to accommodate the metabolic needs of both sexes .
Lung cancer , a major cause of cancer-related mortality , has limited therapeutic options , especially for advanced cases . Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of cell death , is a potential therapeutic strategy for this disease ; however , resistance mechanisms in the tumor microenvironment impede its effectiveness . Therefore , in this study , we aimed to investigate the efficacy of sulfasalazine ( SAS ) , a ferroptosis inducer , and auranofin ( AUR ) , a Food and Drug Administration-approved anti-inflammatory agent , combination to counteract ferroptosis resistance in lung cancer . SAS induced ferroptosis in vitro ; however , its efficacy in vivo was limited , possibly because of factors , such as nutrient deprivation and high cell density , in the microenvironment that suppressed the activities of Yes-associated protein ( YAP ) and transcriptional coactivator with PDZ-binding motif ( TAZ ) , key regulators of ferroptosis resistance . Screening of 2483 drugs revealed AUR as a compound resensitizing the YAP/TAZ-deficient lung cancer cells to ferroptosis . Moreover , SAS and AUR combination significantly enhanced lipid peroxidation and reactive oxygen species accumulation , further driving ferroptosis in cells . This combination effectively inhibited tumor growth and enhanced survival in a murine lung cancer model . Overall , our findings suggest that AUR potentiates ferroptosis-based therapies , serving as an effective candidate to overcome ferroptosis resistance in lung cancer .
Childhood cancer survivors ( CCS ) are at increased risk for various health issues , including obesity , insulin resistance , hypertension , and dyslipidemia , resulting in the development of metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) later in life . It has been suggested that anticancer treatment may lead to alterations in lipid metabolism , which play a role in the pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome among CCS . The prospective study included 110 CCS , with a follow-up time of 39 years since the end of treatment . Fasting serum of fourteen fatty acids concentrations were measured in all children using gas-liquid chromatography . Among the study group , 41 CCS ( 37% ) met 1 or more criteria for metabolic syndrome and exhibited higher concentrations of myristic ( P = 002 ) , palmitic ( P = 003 ) , stearic ( P = 017 ) , oleic ( P = 019 ) , arachidonic ( P = 002 ) , lignoceric ( P = 005 ) , docosahexaenoic ( P = 005 ) , and total fatty acids compared to CCS without metabolic syndrome factors . Additionally , overweight or obese CCS presented higher levels of myristic ( P = 048 ) , palmitic ( P = 016 ) , oleopalmitic ( P = 019 ) , stearic ( P = 024 ) , oleic ( P = 020 ) , alpha-linoleic ( P = 023 ) and behenic ( P = 036 ) acids compared to survivors with a normal BMI . Childhood cancer survivors develop abnormalities in lipid metabolism , which may contribute to an earlier onset of metabolic syndrome . Additionally , overweight or obesity significantly exacerbates changes in lipid metabolism .
OBJECTIVE : To perform metabolomic and lipidomic profiling with plasma samples from patients with placenta accreta spectrum ( PAS ) to identify possible biomarkers for PAS and to predict PAS with machine learning methods that incorporated clinical characteristics with metabolomic and lipidomic profiles . METHODS : This was a multicenter case-control study of patients with placenta previa with PAS ( case group n=33 ) and previa alone ( control group n=21 ) . Maternal third-trimester plasma samples were collected and stored at -80 degrees C . Untargeted metabolomic and targeted lipidomic assays were measured with flow-injection mass spectrometry . Univariate analysis provided an association of each lipid or metabolite with the outcome . The Benjamini-Hochberg procedure was used to control for the false discovery rate . Elastic net machine learning models were trained on patient characteristics to predict risk , and an integrated elastic net model of lipidome or metabolome with nine clinical features was trained . Performance using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUC ) was determined with Monte Carlo cross-validation . Statistical significance was defined at P< . RESULTS : The mean gestational age at sample collection was 33 3/7 weeks ( case group ) and 35 5/7 weeks ( control group ) ( P< . 01 ) . In total , 786 lipid species and 2 , 605 metabolite features were evaluated . Univariate analysis revealed 31 lipids and 214 metabolites associated with the outcome ( P< . 05 ) . After false discovery rate adjustment , these associations no longer remained statistically significant . When the machine learning model was applied , prediction of PAS with only clinical characteristics ( AUC 685 , 95% CI , 65-72 ) performed similarly to prediction with the lipidome model ( AUC 699 , 95% CI , 60-80 ) and the metabolome model ( AUC 71 , 95% CI , 66-76 ) . However , integration of metabolome and lipidome with clinical features did not improve the model . CONCLUSION : Metabolomic and lipidomic profiling performed similarly to , and not better than , clinical risk factors using machine learning to predict PAS among patients with PAS with previa and previa alone .
The phase separation of lipid bilayers , composed of mixtures of saturated and unsaturated lipids and cholesterol , is a topic of fundamental importance in membrane biophysics and cell biology . The formation of lipid domains , including liquid-disordered domains enriched in unsaturated lipids and liquid-ordered domains enriched in saturated lipids and cholesterol , is believed to be essential to the function of many membrane proteins . Experiment , theory , and simulation have been used to develop a general understanding of the thermodynamic driving forces underlying phase separation in ternary and quaternary lipid mixtures . However , the kinetics of early events in lipid phase separation in the presence of transmembrane proteins remain relatively understudied . Using large-scale all-atom and coarse-grained simulations , we explore the kinetics and phase separation of ternary lipid mixtures of saturated lipid , unsaturated lipid , and cholesterol in the presence of transmembrane proteins . Order parameters employed in the Cahn-Hilliard theory provide insight into the kinetics and mechanism of lipid phase separation . We observe three distinct time regimes in the phase separation process : a shorter exponential time phase , followed by a power-law phase , and then a longer plateau phase . Comparison of lipid , protein , and lipid-protein dynamics between all-atom and coarse-grained models identifies both quantitative and qualitative differences and similarities in the phase separation kinetics . Moreover , timescaling of the dynamics of the AA and CG simulations yields a similar kinetic mechanism of phase separation . The findings of this study elucidate fundamental aspects of membrane biophysics and contribute to ongoing efforts to define the role of lipid rafts in the structure and function of the cellular membrane . FAU - Pantelopulos , George A
Friedelin , a pentacyclic triterpenoid , exhibits anti-inflammatory , anticancer , antibacterial , and neuroprotective properties . It also serves as a precursor to celastrol , a potential anticancer drug . Despite the potential of friedelin as a valuable triterpenoid , its low natural abundance in plants and high extraction costs , along with the challenges of chemical synthesis , highlight the need for more efficient and sustainable production methods . While synthetic biology and microbial cell factories , particularly Saccharomyces cerevisiae , have emerged as promising alternatives , further optimization of these systems is required to enhance friedelin biosynthesis . In this study , we aimed to construct a de novo biosynthetic pathway for friedelin in S . cerevisiae by expressing the friedelin synthase gene , TwOSC The results showed that friedelin production in the Z16 strain increased to 270 mg/L after enhancing the activity of key enzymes in the pathway , alleviating promoter inhibition , and reducing the metabolic flux of competing pathways in YPD medium . Further improvements in friedelin production were achieved via medium optimization and lipid droplet engineering , which enhanced cell density and mitigated product cytotoxicity . The friedelin titer of the Z28 strain reached a record level of 1500 mg/L in 250 mL shake-flask fermentation , representing a 30-fold improvement compared to that observed in the initial strain . This study establishes a foundation for the microbial production of friedelin and provides an important precursor for the biosynthesis of high-value compounds such as celastrol . FAU - Zhou , Hanlin
Base editors can correct disease-causing genetic variants . After a neonate had received a diagnosis of severe carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase 1 deficiency , a disease with an estimated 50% mortality in early infancy , we immediately began to develop a customized lipid nanoparticle-delivered base-editing therapy . After regulatory approval had been obtained for the therapy , the patient received two infusions at approximately 7 and 8 months of age . In the 7 weeks after the initial infusion , the patient was able to receive an increased amount of dietary protein and a reduced dose of a nitrogen-scavenger medication to half the starting dose , without unacceptable adverse events and despite viral illnesses . No serious adverse events occurred . Longer follow-up is warranted to assess safety and efficacy . ( Funded by the National Institutes of Health and others . ) .
Activity-based sensing of hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) in specific organelles of interest is significant for deciphering its physiological functions at the subcellular level . However , currently reported HO-responsive moieties lack organelle targetability , necessitating an auxiliary navigation to direct the probe molecule to the targeted cellular local region . Herein , we propose an economical strategy by integrating a dual-functional moiety that combines molecular recognition and organelle targeting . By exploiting the oxidation reaction of dicyanofuran , two novel HO-activatable probes capable of targeting lipid droplets ( LDs ) were rationally designed based on the coumarin scaffold . Notably , the dicyanofuran-fused coumarin derivative FC1 could effectively image endogenous and exogenous HO in LDs of living cells and has been successfully utilized to distinguish cancer cells from normal cells by leveraging the synergistic combination of elevated HO levels and LD abundance . Our work not only presents a new activity-based sensing mechanism for HO but also provides a versatile approach for the development of subcellular fluorescent probes in the future . FAU - Shi , Lei
Phytophthora cinnamomi is a globally destructive pathogen causing disease in over 5000 plant species . As sterol auxotrophs , Phytophthora species rely on host-derived phytosterols for reproduction , yet the effects of pathogen infection on plant sterol biosynthesis remains unclear . We utilised a soil-free plant growth system to analyze the impacts of P . cinnamomi on Nicotiana benthamiana roots , a new model for studying P . cinnamomi -plant root interactions . Our results show that P . cinnamomi successfully infected all ecotypes tested , but infection was inhibited by the systemic chemical , phosphite . While phosphite is traditionally associated with the activation of plant defence mechanisms , we show that phosphite also modulates plant immune receptors and phytosterol biosynthesis . qPCR analyses revealed a two-fold upregulation of the N . benthamiana elicitin receptor , Responsive to Elicitins ( REL ) , and its co-receptor , suppressor of BIR1-1 ( SOBIR ) during P . cinnamomi infection when compared with infected , phosphite-treated plants . Furthermore , key genes related to plant sterol biosynthesis were upregulated in their expression during pathogen infection but were suppressed in phosphite-treated and infected plants . Notably , the cytochrome P450 family 710 ( CYP710A ) gene encoding a C22-sterol desaturase , involved in stigmasterol production , a phytosterol known to be linked to plant susceptibility to pathogens , was downregulated in phosphite-treated plants , independent of infection status . These findings reveal novel insights into the role of phosphite in modulating plant immune responses and sterol metabolism , with potential in managing diseases caused by P . cinnamomi . FAU - Kharel , Aayushree
The association of lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) and the likelihood of endometriosis prevalence has not been previously mentioned . The research aimed to assess the possible potential association between LAP and endometriosis in nationwide research . This cross-sectional analysis was conducted on 2 , 216 participants selected from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) in the 1999-2006 cycles . Logistic regression and stratified analysis by age , race , level of education , BMI , marital status , PIR , glycohemoglobin , drinking , and smoking status were used to analyze the association of the LAP index and odds of endometriosis prevalence . Moreover , smoothed curve fitting was used to evaluate the relevancy of LAP and endometriosis . The multivariate logistic regression model showed a positive association between ln LAP and endometriosis . This trend remained after a full adjustment ( odds ratio = 37 , 95% confidence interval : 08-75 , P = 010 ) . Compared to the minimum ln LAP quartile , participants in the highest ln LAP had a 93% higher chance of endometriosis incidence ( odds ratio = 93 , 95% confidence interval : 08-46 , P = 027 ) . After conducting subgroup analysis and interaction testing , it was found that this positive association was most prominent among women aged 35 years and above and participants with glycohemoglobin>/=6% . This nationwide study suggested that an elevated ln LAP was related to an increased endometriosis prevalence . Therefore , LAP may be a valuable tool for predicting the occurrence of endometriosis . Follow-up studies are critical to assess the association between LAP and odds of endometriosis prevalence and explain the potential mechanisms of this relationship .
Many viruses alter the phospholipid metabolism to benefit their own life cycles . It is unclear whether the host or the virus is driving phospholipid metabolism reprogramming , and how virus infections are affected by the metabolic status . Here we report that phospholipase A2 inhibitor and LY6/PLAUR domain-containing protein ( PINLYP ) inhibits Kaposi ' s sarcoma-associated herpesvirus ( KSHV ) lytic reactivation by remodeling phospholipid metabolism and especially triacylglycerol ( TAG ) biosynthesis . PINLYP deficiency led to increased phospholipase cPLA2alpha activity , cPLA2alpha-mediated AKT phosphorylation , and KSHV lytic reactivation . Analyses of RNA-seq and lipidomics reveal that PINLYP regulates long-chain fatty acid CoA ligase ACSL5 expression and TAG production . The inhibition of ACSL5 activity or TAG biosynthesis suppresses AKT phosphorylation and KSHV lytic reactivation , restoring the phenotype of PINLYP deficiency . This finding underscores the pivotal role of PINLYP in remodeling phospholipid metabolism and promoting viral latency , which sheds new light on how phospholipid metabolism is regulated by herpesvirus and provides a potential target for controlling chronic herpesvirus infection .
In oilseeds , energy-rich carbon is stored as triacylglycerols in organelles called lipid droplets ( LDs ) . While several of the major biogenetic proteins involved in LD formation have been identified , the full repertoire of LD proteins and their functional roles remains incomplete . Here , we show that the low-abundance , seed-specific LD protein LIPID DROPLET PROTEIN OF SEEDS ( LDPS ) contains an amphipathic alpha-helix and proline hairpin motif that serves as an LD-targeting signal and a separate region that binds to the LD protein OLEOSIN 1 ( OLEO1 ) . Loss of LDPS function results in smaller LDs and less seed oil in comparison to wild type , while over-expression of LDPS results in an increase in LD size and seed oil content . Loss of LDPS function also results in an inability of LDs to undergo fusion during post-germinative seedling growth . Analysis of oleo1 and ldps single and double mutant seeds and freeze-thaw treatment of seeds revealed that OLEO1 suppresses the ability of LDPS to promote larger LDs . Collectively , our results identify LDPS as an important player in LD biology that functions together with OLEO1 to determine LD size in Arabidopsis ( Arabidopsis thaliana ) seeds and seedlings through a process that involves LD-LD fusion .
Biological systems do not exist in isolation . Analogous to the intricate design of a spider web , the metabolic adaptations propagated by glioblastoma cells are interlaced , creating a " defense mechanism " that increases the likelihood of mutagenesis and proliferation , while mitigating stress-induced tumor cell death and immune evasion . Previous studies have observed the role of cardiolipin ( CL ) in the electron transport chain ( ETC ) function and several other intracellular signaling pathways . Our review provides a synopsis of the existing knowledge about CL in glioblastoma and its complex relationship with metabolic reprogramming at the subcellular level . Through a meticulous examination of CL defects due to its biogenesis and stress-induced modifications , we seek to elucidate the multifaceted connections between aberrant CL variants and the metabolic alterations that underlie glioblastoma progression . A comprehensive grasp of these mechanisms could provide future direction in designing chemotherapeutic agents that selectively target glioblastoma , are less harmful to normal cells , and therefore , may extend patient survival .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Extracellular matrix protein 1 ( ECM1 ) is known to inhibit transforming growth factor beta ( TGF-beta ) signalling and hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) activation , thereby attenuating liver fibrosis . RNA-seq profiling of livers from wild-type ( WT ) and Ecm1-deficient mice revealed different enrichments in metabolic changes in fatty acid synthesis and inflammatory pathways , suggesting a regulatory role for ECM1 in liver steatosis . Here , we studied the role of ECM1 in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) pathogenesis and underlying mechanisms . APPROACH AND RESULTS : Hepatic ECM1 expression was evaluated and found to be significantly reduced in liver samples from patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) , and in four established MASH mouse models ( HFD , MCD , HFHC , and ob/ob-/- ) . Although overexpression of ECM1 effectively blocked hepatic insulin resistance , steatosis , and inflammation , ECM1 ablation exacerbated diet-induced MASH progression . Mechanistically , ECM1 interacted with the K-Homology 3 ( KH3 ) domain of poly rC binding protein 1 ( PCBP1 ) to suppress iron overload , mitigating lipid peroxidation and consequently impeding metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) advancement under metabolic stress . Re-expression of ECM1 and PCBP1 ameliorated liver disease progression . CONCLUSION : Our study reveals that ECM1 is a critical regulator in MASH , modulating lipid peroxidation by maintaining PCBP1-mediated intracellular iron homeostasis . Targeting ECM1 to restore PCBP1-dependent iron homeostasis may offer a novel therapeutic avenue for MASH .
Ferroptosis , a regulated cell death triggered by overload-dependent lipid peroxidation , is implicated in multiple human cancers . The mechanisms underlying ferroptosis in multiple myeloma ( MM ) remain enigmatic . Here , we confirmed that HSPA9 is overexpressed in MM samples and correlates with unfavorable outcomes . Functionally , HSPA9 enhances MM cell viability , ferroptosis resistance , and tumorigenicity , suggesting its oncogenic role . Proteomics screening identified SLC7A11 , a key ferroptosis suppressor , as a HSPA9 interactor . Mechanistically , HSPA9 serves as a bridge to strengthen the interaction between USP14 and SLC7A11 , modulating USP14-mediated SLC7A11 deubiquitination . Furthermore , the inhibition of USP14 with IU1 enhances the SLC7A11 ubiquitination and degradation , promoting ferroptosis and showing therapeutic efficacy in MM xenograft models . Clinically , HSPA9 , USP14 , and SLC7A11 expression are positively correlated in MM samples , which have a prognostic value . Our study reveals HSPA9-USP14-SLC7A11 axis as a key regulator of ferroptosis in MM and a potential therapeutic target .
Excess dietary sugar profoundly impacts organismal metabolism and health , yet it remains unclear how metabolic adaptations in adipose tissue influence other organs , including the brain . Here , we show that a high-sugar diet ( HSD ) in Drosophila reduces adipocyte glycolysis and mitochondrial pyruvate uptake , shifting metabolism toward fatty acid oxidation and ketogenesis . These metabolic changes trigger mitochondrial oxidation and elevate antioxidant responses . Adipocyte-specific manipulations of glycolysis , lipid metabolism , or mitochondrial dynamics non-autonomously modulate Draper expression in brain ensheathing glia , key cells responsible for neuronal debris clearance . Adipocyte-derived ApoB-containing lipoproteins maintain basal Draper levels in glia via LpR1 , critical for effective glial phagocytic activity . Accordingly , reducing ApoB or LpR1 impairs glial clearance of degenerating neuronal debris after injury . Collectively , our findings demonstrate that dietary sugar-induced shifts in adipocyte metabolism substantially influence brain health by modulating glial phagocytosis , identifying adipocyte-derived ApoB lipoproteins as essential systemic mediators linking metabolic state with neuroprotective functions .
Patients with myalgic encephalomyelitis/chronic fatigue syndrome ( ME/CFS ) have a deficiency in energy production as a result of dysfunctions in their mitochondrial metabolism , defects in the complexes of the electron transport chain , and in the regulation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . This can lead to an imbalance and excess of these species with subsequent modifications of proteins , lipids , and DNA . Oxidative stress is defined as an accumulation of ROS due to a loss of regulation and the subsequent inability to detoxify them . The modifications to the cellular macromolecules by ROS can be used as biomarkers of oxidative stress and so have the potential to monitor the disease course of a condition like ME/CFS . Proteins are especially vulnerable to oxidative stress as amino acid residues are naturally modified as part of cell signaling so , in an imbalance between ROS and antioxidants , proteins become modified at multiple sites potentially altering structure and function . Protein carbonyl modifications are stable and can be measured using 2 , 4-dinitrophenylhydrazine using a commercial ELISA assay . This has been applied here to immune cell proteins and plasma from ME/CFS patients who had moderate functional activity before and during an exercise protocol , and was shown to have potential as a marker of oxidative stress in these patients . The methods used to measure the DNA modification , 8-hydroxy-2 ' -deoxyguanosine ( 8-OHdG ) are known to give varied results depending on the technology used . Here , a commercial ELISA assay did not have the sensitivity to detect the modifications in the DNA before and during the exercise protocol of these ME/CFS patients .
Ischemic stroke ( IS ) is emerging as an increasingly serious social issue with elusive etiology , few diagnostic markers , and limited treatment methods . Another concern in contemporary society is the prevalence of obesity , which is indicative of suboptimal well-being . Despite its association with established risk factors for stroke ( such as hypertension and diabetes ) , several studies have reported a controversial phenomenon known as the " obesity paradox , " whereby certain obese patients with stroke exhibited unexpectedly positive outcomes . In this study , a total of 68 plasma samples were collected including 36 controls and 32 IS patients , with further differentiation between obese and non-obese individuals in each group . A quantitative metabonomic approach based on H nuclear magnetic resonance ( H NMR ) was employed to identify differential metabolic markers of IS , and elucidate the impact of obesity on IS . The final results demonstrated that obesity did not have a significant impact on metabolites . It is important to note , however , that reliance on BMI as the sole indicator of obesity may be insufficient . Additional parameters , such as waist-to-hip ratio and waist circumference , should be considered . Furthermore , the impact of obesity on stroke is probably mediated through metabolic health , making it an intermediate factor rather than a direct cause . Additionally , the study identified approximately 30 metabolites exhibiting significant alterations in IS patients , with the primary metabolic pathways being energy metabolism , amino acid metabolism , lipid metabolism , and folic acid deficiency . These findings are significant for comprehending the potential mechanisms of IS and facilitating its rapid and early diagnosis for effective treatment .
Diflubenzuron ( DFB ) is important to study due to its widespread use in agriculture and vector control . These harmful chemicals can persist at trace concentrations in aquatic systems for extended periods , potentially exerting adverse effects on aquatic life . This research investigated the toxic effects of DFB on the water flea ( Daphnia magna ) at environmental concentrations during a chronic exposure period of 21-days . D . magna is a key indicator species in freshwater ecosystems and plays a vital role in the aquatic food web . The EC value was found to be 76 ng L ( -1 ) , with a 95% confidence interval ( CI ) of 65-70 ng L ( -1 ) . The survival rate of D . magna was 5% at a DFB concentration of 10 ng L ( -1 ) during the chronic exposure period , which was significantly lower than that of the other groups ( p < 05 ) . Moreover , the increased DFB concentration significantly reduced the fecundity of D . magna . In detail , the total of reproduction was significantly decreased according to increasing DFB concentration , while an increase in undeveloped embryos and male offspring was increased ( p < 05 ) . Ultimately , the number of normal offspring capable of reproduction decreased , and the growth of organisms showed a concentration-dependent decline . Exposure to DFB induced a notable increase in the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase , as well as lipid peroxidation in daphnids , suggesting an activation of the antioxidant system and cellular damage in organisms . Furthermore , chitin content increased in response to DFB exposure , suggesting a potential compensatory mechanism to strengthen the exoskeleton . These findings underscore the adverse effects of DFB on D . magna reproduction , growth , and overall physiological health , even at environmentally relevant concentrations . This research indicates the necessity of investigating the ecotoxicological risk of DFB contamination in aquatic ecosystems .
Only a few reports have generated induced pluripotent stem cells from patients with prion diseases , making it important to conduct translational studies using cells derived from individuals with prion protein ( PRNP ) mutations . In this study , we established induced pluripotent stem cells from a patient with a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchorless PRNP mutation ( Y162X ) , which leads to abnormal deposits of prion protein in various organs . While no abnormal intracellular prion protein deposits were observed in the neurons differentiated from PRNP Y162X induced pluripotent stem cells , extracellular PrP aggregates secretions were significantly increased , and these cells were significantly more sensitive to oxidative stress compared to control cells . Utilizing this PRNP Y162X iPSC-derived neuron model , we discovered that edaravone reduced the sensitivity of PRNP Y162X cells to oxidative stress . Following this finding , we treated a PRNP Y162X patient with edaravone for two years , which successfully suppressed indicators of disease progression . Our study demonstrates that the pathology of the glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchorless PRNP mutation is associated with oxidative stress and highlights the potential of induced pluripotent stem cell technology in identifying novel treatments for rare prion diseases .
Funding Pyroptosis is a type of programmed cell death ( PCD ) pathway distinguished by inflammation . It is activated by specific inflammasomes . Once activated , it causes the physical breakdown of the cell , along with the discharge of pro-inflammatory cytokines , such as interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) and interleukin-18 ( IL-18 ) . Abundant evidence has demonstrated the existence of pyroptotic cell death within atherosclerotic plaques , which has significance for the development of atherosclerosis ( AS ) . As a result , pyroptosis has become a new and important topic in cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) research . Cholesterol , it is recognized to have a connection with inflammation , exerts a crucial function in the development process of AS , and has been linked to the initiation of pyroptosis . This review aims to briefly summarize the fundamental aspects of pyroptosis and the influence of cholesterol-related inflammation in AS . Additionally , this review will explore potential therapeutic approaches based on pyroptosis that could be utilized for the prevention and treatment of AS .
Homologous proteins share similar sequences , enabling them to work together in cells to support normal physiological functions . Phosphatidylserine synthases 1 and 2 ( PSS1 and PSS2 ) are homologous enzymes that catalyze the synthesis of phosphatidylserine ( PS ) from different substrates . PSS2 shows a preference for phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) as its substrate , whereas PSS1 can utilize either PE or phosphatidylcholine . Previous studies showed that inhibiting PSS1 promotes SREBP-2 cleavage . Interestingly , despite their homology , our findings reveal that PSS2 exerts an opposing effect on the cleavage of both SREBP-1 and SREBP- We resolved the cryo-electron microscopy ( cryo-EM ) structure of human PSS2 at 3 A resolution . Structural comparison of the catalytic cavities between PSS1 and PSS2 along with molecular dynamics simulations uncovers the molecular details behind the substrate preference of PSS2 for PE . The lipidomic analysis showed that PSS2 deficiency leads to PE accumulation in the endoplasmic reticulum , which has been shown to inhibit the cleavage of sterol regulatory element-binding proteins ( SREBPs ) in mice . Thus , our findings reveal the intricate network of intracellular phospholipid metabolism and underscore the distinct regulatory roles of homologous proteins in cellular activities . FAU - Li , Dongyu
Lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) have extensively been used in drug delivery over the years , and the perspective of their significance has been well established . Latest findings have demonstrated the inherent adjuvant capacity of some specific lipid components , especially in stimulating immune compartments , which prompted the rational use of lipid-based delivery vehicles in drug R&D . In this concise review , we summarize current knowledge on the adjuvant properties of LNP , with a particular focus on the key components that mediate such effects . Specifically , we describe the vital role of ionizable lipids in triggering innate immune activation and inflammation and highlight the importance of these lipids in determining vaccine effectiveness or safety . Furthermore , the mechanisms by which LNP enhance the immune response are discussed in detail , shedding light on their potential applications in next-generation vaccine design and development . We also present compelling pre-clinical studies that serve as strong evidence for the adjuvant properties of LNP components in enhancing vaccine immunogenicity .
This study investigates the impact of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum postbiotics ( LPP ) on microbiological and chemical alterations in raw rainbow trout fillets stored at 4 degrees C . LPP , containing chemicals such as methyl ester , oleic acid , and eucalyptol , demonstrated considerable radical scavenging action and improved cellular safety , enhancing cell survival by 70% to 60% and elevating SOD ( 10-14 mU mg-1 ) and GSH-Px ( 80-30 mU mg-1 ) activity . The use of LPP ( 5% , 8% , 5% ) and potassium sorbate ( PS ) in raw fish fillets resulted in a significant decrease in microbial proliferation , with the 5% LPP treatment achieving a reduction in Listeria monocytogenes count by 6 +/- 07 log CFU g-1 by day Additionally , chemical parameters showed marked stability ; the pH value increased from 22 +/- 08 to 4 +/- 03 in the 5% LPP-treated fillets by day Total volatile basic nitrogen levels for the same treatment remained below the acceptable threshold of 25 mg 100 g-1 until day 8 ( 23 +/- 19 mg 100 g-1 ) , while TBA levels peaked at 1 +/- 02 mg kg-1 on day This approach prolonged shelf life by up to 12 days , maintaining fillet quality with no adverse sensory consequences .
The organic fraction of municipal solid waste ( OFMSW ) must be stored for hours or days before being fed to the anaerobic digestion reactors . This storage leads to spontaneous lactic acid fermentation , and volatile fatty acids ( VFAs ) and ethanol are produced by naturally occurring microorganisms . This research deals with fermentation and hydrolysis by controlling the OFMSW storage ( silage ) conditions . Using only naturally occurring microorganisms as inoculum , OFMSW fermentation in a semi-continuous reactor at pH values of 4 , 5 , and 6 was performed . During 6 days , samples were collected and analyzed daily for VFAs , ethanol , and lactic acid . At pH 4 , the main products were ethanol , lactic acid , and acetic acid ; at pH 5 , lactic acid predominated , decreasing after day 4 ; at pH 6 , acetic acid formed rapidly and after day 1 , the concentration remained constant . At pH 6 , butyric acid reached the highest concentration of all VFAs . The microbial diversity increased with pH . Metataxonomic analysis supports the possibility that the fungus of the Pichia genus is responsible for ethanol production and that various bacteria are responsible for VFAs , lactic acid production , and acetogenesis . Acetogenesis was the main pathway for the decrease in lactic acid and ethanol over time .
Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 8 ( LRP8 ) is a crucial regulator of lipid metabolism and is implicated in the development and treatment of various cancers . However , its role in bladder cancer ( BCa ) remains unknown . We analyzed LRP8 expression in BCa using the TCGA database and clinical samples . We manipulated LRP8 expression in tumor cell lines using siRNA or overexpression plasmid transfection . Cell proliferation , migration , invasion , apoptosis , and drug resistance were assessed through CCK-8 , transwell , flow cytometry , and IC assays . Additionally , a rescue experiment confirmed the association between LRP8 and lipid metabolism . LRP8 was significantly upregulated in BCa tissues and cells . Knockdown of LRP8 reduced tumor cell proliferation , migration , invasion , and increased apoptosis while enhancing cisplatin sensitivity . Overexpression of LRP8 boosted malignant progression and cisplatin resistance in tumor cells . The expression level of LRP8 is positively linked with the expression of lipid metabolism-related genes , phospholipid accumulation , and triglyceride accumulation . Notably , inhibiting lipid metabolism reversed the malignant progression and cisplatin resistance induced by LRP8 overexpression . LRP8 could promote BCa malignant progression and cisplatin resistance through lipid metabolism regulation .
Recently , the first small-molecule positive allosteric modulators ( PAMs ) of the dopamine D receptor ( DR ) were identified . The more potent PAM potentiated the effects of DR signaling in vitro and in an in vivo model predictive of anti-Parkinson ' s efficacy . We reveal , based on the results of our site-directed mutagenesis and molecular dynamics experiments , that this scaffold binds to a hitherto unexploited lipid-exposed extrahelical allosteric site in the DR that lies in a cleft toward the intracellular aspect of the DR defined by residues in transmembrane domains 1 and 7 and helix By binding to this site , the PAM acts to potentiate the binding affinity of efficacious agonists , such as dopamine . Our simulations suggest that the PAM achieves this effect by stabilizing an active-like conformation of the receptor , similar to the G protein-bound state with TM5 and the tyrosine toggle switch playing the major role . FAU - Lim , Herman D
SARS-CoV-2 , the virus responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic , encodes several accessory proteins , among which ORF6 , a potent interferon inhibitor , is recognized as one of the most cytotoxic . Here , we investigated the structure , oligomeric state , and membrane interactions of ORF6 using NMR spectroscopy and molecular dynamics simulations . Using chemical-shift-ROSETTA , we show that ORF6 in proteoliposomes adopts a straight alpha-helical structure with an extended , rigid N-terminal part and flexible C-terminal residues . Cross-linking experiments indicate that ORF6 forms oligomers within lipid bilayers , and paramagnetic spin labeling suggests an antiparallel arrangement in its multimers . The amphipathic ORF6 helix establishes multiple contacts with the membrane surface with its N-terminal residues acting as membrane anchors . Our work demonstrates that ORF6 is an integral monotopic membrane protein and provides key insights into its conformation and the importance of the N-terminal region for the interaction with the membrane . FAU - Ninot-Pedrosa , Marti
CONTEXT : Dyslipidemia adversely affects female fertility ; however , its relation with recurrent pregnancy losses ( RPL ) and underlying mechanism remains unclear . OBJECTIVE : This study aims to analyze the impact of dyslipidemia on natural killer ( NK ) cell cytotoxicities and autoimmunity in women with RPL and to elucidate how lipids affect cellular immunity . DESIGN : A retrospective cross-sectional study with ex vivo experiments . SETTING : University Clinic . PATIENTS : 115 RPL women , including 70 non-dyslipidemia , and 45 dyslipidemia . INTERVENTIONS : Dyslipidemia . MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES : Cellular immune activity , and autoimmune parameters were evaluated . RESULTS : Out of 115 women , 45 ( 1% ) had dyslipidemia . The prevalence of anti-single strand ( ssDNA ) and anti-thyroglobulin antibodies was significantly higher in dyslipidemia women . Natural killer ( NK ) cell cytotoxicity , measured at effector to target cell ( E : T ) ratio of 25 : 1 and 5 : 1 , was significantly higher in women with dyslipidemia ( P < 05 ) . NK cell cytotoxicities ( E : T ratios of 25 : 1 and 5 : 1 ) were positively correlated with serum total cholesterol and LDL-C levels ( all P < 05 ) . However , there were no differences in the T helper 1 ( Th1 ) /Th2 cytokine-producing cell ratios between the two groups . The in-vitro study revealed that pretreatment with oxLDL enhanced the conjugation of NK cells with target cells and increased perforin secretion . NK cell cytotoxicities were significantly increased after pretreatment with 5 and 50 mug/mL oxLDL ( P < 05 each ) . CONCLUSION : A significant proportion of women with RPL have dyslipidemia , and the risk of autoimmune and cellular immune abnormalities is increased in women with a history of RPL and dyslipidemia .
Enterobacter cloacae complex ( ECC ) comprises numerous species that can be difficult to identify . Among these species , Enterobacter bugandensis is recognized as a threat in neonatal intensive care units due to its involvement in septic shock . A potential virulence factor responsible for its virulence is the modification of the lipid A of the lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . This modification corresponds to a hydroxylation of the myristate component of lipid A . A collection of 168 ECC , including 10 E . bugandensis and one isolate involved in fatal septic shock in the neonatal intensive care unit , were tested for the presence of 2-hydroxymyristate . All isolates were sequenced to determine the genetic diversity of this collection and detect the presence of the lpxO gene responsible for this hydroxylation . matrix assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry ( MALDI-TOF ) analysis revealed that only a fraction ( 4/11 ) of E . bugandensis were able to modify their lipid A , which correlates with the presence of the lpxO gene . Genomic analysis of E . bugandensis revealed that only half of the genomes carried the lpxO gene . Lpxo-negative isolates exhibited a deletion of 1 , 094 bp encompassing the lpxO gene . Lipid A analysis also revealed that hydroxylation of myristate was not specific to E . bugandensis since this modification was systematically found in several species including Enterobacter chengduensis , Enterobacter chuandaensis , or Enterobacter cloacae subsp cloacae . Here , we provide a simple detection test allowing the rapid identification of hydroxymyristate of lipid A involved in the virulence of E . bugandensis . Rapid identification of lipid A modification might help clinicians to adapt procedures when an Enterobacter spp . is identified in newborns . IMPORTANCE : Enterobacter bugandensis is now recognized as a potential threat in neonatal wards due to its ability to survive in incubators and its virulence properties . Its increased virulence is linked to the addition of 2-hydroxymyristate on lipid A , resulting from the action of the LpxO enzyme . Here , we proposed a rapid and simple assay to decipher the presence of 2-hydroxymyristate on lipid A directly from the bacterial colony . This assay can be performed easily on MALDI-TOF routine machine using a commercial kit ( MBT Lipid Xtract Kit , Bruker Daltonic ) . This test can accurately detect the 2-hydroxymyristate on lipid A of lpxO-positive ECC isolates , including E . bugandensis . In neonate wards , newborns are now screened for ECC carriage . Accordingly , the MALDIxin test might help clinicians detect the presence of lpxO-positive E . bugandensis , which can be considered a risk factor for the newborn , and implement measures to avoid potentially fatal septicemia . FAU - Bonnin , Remy A
Malassezia are commensal lipid-dependent yeasts and opportunistic pathogens that cause superficial mycoses and systemic infection . Azole antifungals target cell wall ergosterol synthesis and are the first line of antifungal treatment . ERG11 gene mutations and overexpression are major mechanisms conferring azole resistance and resulting in antifungal therapy failure . Malassezia restricta is found ubiquitously on healthy and diseased skin , with azole-resistant isolates described . Malassezia arunalokei is a relatively new , closely related common skin species . Ketoconazole and itraconazole were the most effective at inhibiting both species . Isolates of M . restricta and M . arunalokei from healthy skin of Singapore subjects were cultured , evaluated , and generally susceptible to common over-the-counter azoles , including clotrimazole , except for select less-susceptible strains . Some less-susceptible strains have novel or reported non-synonymous mutations in the ERG11 gene , such as R88C . The QK178RQ ERG11 sequence variation was observed to be associated with differences in M . restricta and M . arunalokei as independent species . In the absence of identified ERG11 mutations , strains with elevated MICs were observed to have elevated ERG11 expression and drug efflux pump expression/activity . We conclude that antifungal susceptibility is determined by a combination of intrinsic ( e . g . , mutations , gene expression , efflux pump activity ) and extrinsic ( e . g . , skin condition , prior antifungal exposure ) factors and that the skin microbiome serves as a reference for the emergence of new mutations and strain phenotypes . IMPORTANCE : Malassezia over colonization is associated with conditions such as dandruff and seborrheic dermatitis , which give rise to unpleasant itching and swelling on the skin . Azole antifungals such as ketoconazole , clotrimazole , and miconazole are the primary treatments of choice available as over-the-counter creams or shampoos . However , the emergence of antifungal resistance leads to a loss of treatment efficacy and persistent fungal infection . To understand the mechanisms underlying antifungal resistance , we profiled the susceptibility profiles of commensal Malassezia isolates from the skin and identified novel ERG11 mutations . Our results indicate that antifungal susceptibility is determined by a combination of factors ( mutations , efflux pump activity , gene expression , copy number ) and suggest that the healthy skin microbiome serves as a reference for the emergence of new mutations and strain phenotypes . FAU - Leong , Cheryl
Dihydroorotate dehydrogenases ( DHODs ) are common to all life and catalyze the oxidation of dihydroorotate ( DHO ) to orotate the precursor of all pyrimidine nucleotides . The core structure of all DHODs has a TIM-barrel topology ( the PyrD subunit or domain ) that harbors an FMN cofactor that interacts with DHO . There are two classes of DHOD enzymes . Each has unique structures and oxidant substrates that conserve part of the energy available by coupling the reaction to ATP synthesis . The class 1 enzymes are soluble and divided into classes 1A and 1B . Class 1A has fumarate as the electron acceptor forming succinate and is the simplest form of DHOD , successively binding DHO and fumarate at the same active site locale . Class 1B uses NAD ( + ) as the oxidant and this form of DHOD is heterodimeric having , in addition to the PyrD subunit , a subunit ( PyrK ) whose structure is like those of ferredoxin reductases . PyrK adds a second active site with a bound FAD that interacts with the NAD ( + ) substrate and includes an FeS center that resides at the interface of the subunits , forming a conduit for electrons . Class 2 DHODs have ubiquinone ( UQ ) as the electron acceptor . This form of DHOD is membrane associated via an N-terminal domain that also forms a quinone binding site end-on to the FMN xylene moiety . This arrangement uses the flavin to mediate between the substrates and as a redox partition between water-soluble NAD ( + ) and lipid soluble UQ . In this review , we summarize the structure and mechanism of DHOD enzymes . FAU - Smith , Corine O
AIMS : Omega-3 ( n-3 ) and omega-6 ( n-6 ) polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) are indispensable for human health . Notably , imbalanced levels of maternal PUFAs during pregnancy can exert lasting impacts on the developing fetus . There is an urgent need for a robust and rapid method that can simultaneously quantify multiple n-3 and n-6 PUFAs in plasma and adapt to large-scale clinical screening . METHODS : Sample preparative process consisted of non-derivatized alkali hydrolyzing and liquid-liquid extraction followed by reconstituting after being blown dry with nitrogen , and the total chromatographic run time was only 6 min . RESULTS : The LC-MS/MS method was validated according to current national and international guidelines . Acceptable reproducibility and accuracy were shown based on the intra-day precision was 79%-02% , the inter-day precision was 01%-63% , and the accuracy was 42%-78% . The correlation coefficients of linearity were > All measured plasma individual PUFAs levels in pregnant women significantly increased , apart from eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA , C20 : 5n3 ) and n-6/n-3 PUFA ratio levels decreased were observed . The analysis performance is satisfactory and suitable for clinical routine detection . CONCLUSION : This method could be a valuable tool for 10 kinds of n-3 and n-6 PUFAs nutritional assessment , supplementary guidance , and intervention during pregnancy . FAU - Yan , Xu
Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease I ( APE1 ) acts as both an endonuclease and a redox factor to ensure cell survival . The two activities require different conformations of APE As an endonuclease , APE1 is fully folded . As a redox factor , APE1 must be partially unfolded to expose the buried residue Cys65 , which reduces transcription factors including AP-1 , NF-kappaB , and HIF-1alpha and thereby enables them to bind DNA . To determine a molecular basis for partial unfolding associated with APE1 ' s redox activity , we characterized specific interactions of a known redox inhibitor APX3330 with APE1 through waterLOGSY and H-N HSQC NMR approaches using ethanol and acetonitrile as co-solvents . We find that APX3330 binds to the endonuclease active site in both co-solvents and to a distant small pocket in acetonitrile . Prolonged exposure of APE1 with APX3330 in acetonitrile resulted in a time-dependent loss of H-N HSQC chemical shifts ( ~35% ) , consistent with partial unfolding . Regions that are partially unfolded include adjacent N- and C-terminal beta strands within one of the two sheets comprising the core , which converge within the small binding pocket defined by the CSPs . Removal of APX3330 via dialysis resulted in a slow reappearance of the H-N HSQC chemical shifts suggesting that the effect of APX3330 is reversible . APX3330 significantly decreases the melting temperature of APE1 but has no effect on endonuclease activity using a standard assay in either co-solvent . Our results provide insights on reversible partial unfolding of APE1 relevant for its redox function as well as the mechanism of redox inhibition by APX
Lyotropic liquid crystal gels of phytantriol and monoolein are well known examples of self-assembled systems in water , which have multiple applications across biomedical and materials science . However aqueous systems can be restricted by rapid solvent evaporation , and the limited solubility of some species in water . Here we explore the formation of liquid crystalline phases of phytantriol and monoolein in mixtures of water with two protic ionic liquids , ethylammonium nitrate ( EAN ) and ethanolammonium nitrate ( EtAN ) , and three deep eutectic solvents ( DES ) formed from mixtures of choline chloride with urea , fructose or citric acid . The structures of the gel phase in excess solvent were measured using small angle X-ray scattering for a fixed lipid concentration ( 5% w/w ) as a function of temperature . The phase diagrams of both lipids in DES-water mixtures and the non-amphiphilic ionic liquid , EtAN , indicate that higher negative curvature inverse hexagonal structures are favoured by addition of water . However , the amphiphilic ionic liquid EAN swells and stabilises the cubic Pn3m structure . The interplay of solvent structure , polarity and molecular size are key to understanding the formation and stability of lyotropic liquid crystalline gels in these systems . FAU - Edler , Karen J
Oligodendrogenesis and myelin formation are important processes in the central nervous system ( CNS ) of jawed vertebrates , underpinning the highly efficient neural computation within the compact CNS architecture . Myelin , the dense lipid sheath wrapped around axons , enables rapid signal transmission and modulation of neural circuits . Oligodendrocytes are generated from oligodendrocyte precursor cells ( OPCs ) , which are widely distributed in the adult CNS and continue to produce new oligodendrocytes throughout life . Adult oligodendrogenesis is integral to adaptive myelination , which fine-tunes neural circuits in response to neuronal activity , contributing to neuroplasticity , learning , and memory . Emerging evidence also highlights the role of oligodendrogenesis in specialized brain regions , linking oligodendrocytes to metabolic and homeostatic functions . In the aging and diseased brain , dysregulated oligodendrogenesis exacerbates myelin loss and may contribute to pathogenesis . In addition , maladaptive myelination driven by aberrant neuronal activity could sustain a dysfunction in conditions such as epilepsy . This review summarizes the current understanding of oligodendrogenesis , with insights into its evolution , regulation , and impact on aging and disease .
Atherosclerosis is a slowly progressing inflammatory disease characterized with cholesterol disorder and intimal plaques . Asparagine endopeptidase ( AEP ) is an endolysosomal protease that is activated under acidic conditions and is elevated substantially in both plasma and plaques of patients with atherosclerosis . However , how AEP accelerates atherosclerosis development remains incompletely understood , especially from the view of cholesterol metabolism . This project aims to reveal the crucial substrate of AEP during atherosclerosis plaque formation and to lay the foundation for developing novel therapeutic agents for Atherosclerosis . Here , we show that AEP is augmented in the atherosclerosis plaques obtained from patients and proteolytically cuts apolipoprotein A1 ( APOA1 ) and impairs cholesterol efflux and high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) formation , facilitating atherosclerosis pathologies . AEP is activated in the liver and aorta of apolipoprotein E-null ( APOE-null ) mice , and deletion of AEP from APOE-/- mice attenuates atherosclerosis . APOA1 , an essential lipoprotein in HDL for cholesterol efflux , is cleaved by AEP at N208 residue in the liver and atherosclerotic macrophages of APOE-/- mice . Blockade of APOA1 cleavage by AEP via N208A mutation or its specific inhibitor , #11a , substantially diminishes atherosclerosis in both APOE-/- and LDLR-/- mice . Hence , our findings support that AEP disrupts cholesterol metabolism and accelerates the development of atherosclerosis . FAU - Wang , Mengmeng
BACKGROUND : Lifestyle factors toward diet and physical activity ( PA ) may directly influence the pathophysiology of dyslipidemia . However , the associations of the specific macronutrient-to-PA ratio with dyslipidemia , and the underlying mechanisms regarding gut microbiota and metabolites , remain largely unexplored . METHODS : Dietary and PA information from 273 participants with or at risk of metabolic syndrome was collected via a food frequency questionnaire and the International Physical Activity Questionnaire . Gut microbial genera and fecal metabolites were profiled through 16S rRNA sequencing and untargeted LC-MS metabolomics , respectively . Machine-learning algorithms were applied to identify gut microbiome features of macronutrient-to-PA ratios and to construct microbiome risk score . RESULTS : Higher macronutrient-to-PA ratios , especially for high saturated fatty acid intake , were associated with increased risks of dyslipidemia , with adjusted odds ratio ( 95% CIs ) of 87 ( 41-99 ) for hypercholesteremia , 21 ( 11-48 ) for hypertriglyceridemia , and 52 ( 26-16 ) for high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol . Microbiome risk scores were significantly associated with elevated levels of total cholesterol , triglycerides , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol . Additionally , for each macronutrient-to-PA ratio , a core group of gut microbial genera were identified ( eg , Phocaeicola , Lachnoclostridium , Limosilactobacillus , and Tyzzerella ) , exhibiting positive associations with lipid disorders and superior discrimination capacities for hypercholesterolemia , hypertriglyceridemia , and high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol . Furthermore , we identified 9 metabolites ( eg , acetyl phosphate , glycerol , and pyruvic acid ) , predominantly enriched in dyslipidemia-related pathways and associated with both core gut microbial taxa and macronutrient-to-PA ratios . CONCLUSIONS : This study identified varied associations between macronutrient-to-PA ratios and dyslipidemia and depicted the potential modulatory roles of gut microbiota and fecal metabolites . FAU - Wang , Menghan
BACKGROUND : Weight reduction through lifestyle , activity , and dietary interventions are the mainstay of initial therapy for metabolic dysfunction associated steatotic liver disease . Data on the relative effectiveness and metabolic pathways linking weight loss and decreased hepatic steatosis are lacking . We sought to identify coordinated changes between the circulating proteome and hepatic steatosis within a randomized clinical trial of alternate day fasting and exercise and prioritize proteins relevant to hepatic steatosis within a broader context using a community cohort . METHODS AND RESULTS : We quantified a broad cardiometabolic proteome ( >300 proteins ) in 67 individuals randomized in a 2x2 factorial design to alternate day fasting and exercise before and after the 3-month intervention to identify proteomic signatures of hepatic steatosis ( measured by magnetic resonance imaging proton density fat fraction ) . Then , we analyzed the cross-sectional relationship of overlapping proteins ( approximately 170 ) with hepatic attenuation ( a computed tomographic technique linked to steatosis ) in 707 participants from a community cohort . Principal component analysis demonstrated a proteomic signature associated with intrahepatic triglyceride content ( Spearman rho=55 , P<001 ) and insulin resistance ( homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance , Spearman rho=39 , P=001 ) . Changes in this proteomic signature were associated with changes in intrahepatic triglyceride content over the intervention period ( beta=12 , P<001 ) . Moreover , cross-sectional analysis of overlapping proteins with hepatic attenuation in the community cohort showed generally , directionally consistent associations with hepatic steatosis . CONCLUSIONS : These findings highlight the potential for broad proteomic profiling in small nutritional interventional studies with serial phenotyping alongside confirmatory large cohort epidemiology to prioritize targets of hepatic steatosis and cardiometabolic risk for mechanistic study . FAU - El-Sabawi , Bassim
OBJECTIVERS : To investigate the complex interplay between autoimmune disorders , metabolic dysfunction , and vascular health , we assessed the relationship between ADAMTS13 , systemic sclerosis-scleroderma ( SSc ) , and insulin resistance . METHODS : A cross-sectional study was conducted involving 81 individuals diagnosed with SSc and 76 healthy age- and sex-matched controls . Comprehensive clinical and laboratory characterisations were performed for both groups . Serum levels of ADAMTS13 , standard lipid profiles , and indices of insulin resistance were assessed in all participants . To determine whether ADAMTS13 serum levels differed significantly between SSc patients and healthy controls , as well as to examine the relationship between ADAMTS13 values , disease characteristics , and cardiometabolic features , multivariable linear regression analyses were performed . RESULTS : Serum ADAMTS13 levels were significantly decreased in patients with SSc compared to healthy controls after multivariable analysis . A significant negative correlation was observed between C-reactive protein levels and circulating ADAMTS13 levels . However , disease characteristics , including pulmonary , articular , and cutaneous manifestations , did not show significant associations with ADAMTS13 values . Regarding cardiometabolic features , ADAMTS13 levels demonstrated a significant positive association with indices of insulin resistance , a relationship not observed in the control group . CONCLUSIONS : ADAMTS13 serum levels are decreased in patients with SSc . Additionally , a positive correlation exists between ADAMTS13 levels and insulin resistance in SSc . FAU - Ferraz-Amaro , Ivan
OBJECTIVES : Plasma myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) levels have been associated with cardiovascular disease in the general population . However , their relationship to cardiovascular manifestations in systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) remains unexplored . This study aims to investigate the association between circulating MPO and SSc disease characteristics , incorporating a comprehensive assessment of lipid profiles , carotid atherosclerosis , and metabolic syndrome . METHODS : This cross-sectional study encompassed 81 individuals with confirmed systemic sclerosis ( SSc ) . All SSc patients underwent a complete clinical evaluation . Serum MPO levels and lipid profiles were assessed . To elucidate potential associations between MPO and both SSc-specific manifestations and cardiometabolic parameters , we employed multivariable linear regression analyses . RESULTS : Disease characteristics , including SSc subtype ( diffuse or limited ) , Rodnan skin score , and the presence of visceral involvement ( e . g . , pulmonary , or other organ involvement ) and autoantibody profiles , showed no correlation with MPO levels . However , significant and positive associations were observed , after multivariable adjustment , between MPO values and the presence of metabolic syndrome , LDL : HDL cholesterol ratio , non-HDL cholesterol , apolipoprotein B levels , apolipoprotein B : A1 ratio , and the atherogenic index . CONCLUSIONS : Circulating MPO levels do not correlate with specific SSc disease manifestations . However , higher MPO values are associated with the presence of metabolic syndrome and an unfavorable lipid profile in patients with this condition . FAU - Ferraz-Amaro , Ivan
Pueraria as a legume vine is mainly produced in East Asia and Southeast Asia . Its most widely used part is the tuber . Pueraria is often used to treat various diseases such as fever and headache since ancient times . Recently , pueraria as a valuable source of polysaccharides , phytochemicals , proteins , minerals , and other nutrients has anticancer , immunomodulatory , hypoglycemic , lipid-lowering , antiatherosclerotic , neuroprotective , hepatointestinal regulatory , hormonal regulatory activities , and so forth . This review provides a comprehensive overview of the resources and distribution , processing procedures and application , nutritional and phytochemical composition , and biological activities of pueraria , and gives insights into developing pueraria as a potential and novel ingredient for its versatile food and nonfood applications along with the latest researches conducted worldwide . Furthermore , it highlights the safety and regulatory issues for consumption of pueraria as food ingredient .
Frozen desserts are highly valued for their creamy texture and rich mouthfeel , primarily due to their high-fat content . However , the increasing consumption of these products has raised concerns regarding excessive fat intake , which has been linked to health issues such as obesity , diabetes , and cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) . Therefore , there is growing interest in developing fat replacers . Fat replacers can mimic the physicochemical and sensory properties of natural fats in frozen desserts , including texture , mouthfeel , and flavor interaction , providing a comparable experience with a reduced calorie content . However , fat reduction in frozen desserts often leads to undesirable changes , including reduced smoothness and creaminess , increased chalkiness , and the emergence of dark colors and off-flavors . To mitigate these challenges , various strategies have been explored , including optimizing the ratio of ingredients , incorporating masking flavors , modifying processing techniques , and blending with stabilizers . While existing reviews highlight the benefits of fat replacers , they often focus on limited frozen dessert types and provide insufficient insight into replacement mechanisms and improvement strategies . This review aims to bridge this gap by examining a wide range of frozen desserts , comprehensively analyzing protein-based , carbohydrate-based , lipid-based , and complex fat replacers , and detailing their mechanisms of action , application challenges , and effects on the final product quality . Additionally , strategies for enhancing the sensory attributes of reduced-fat frozen desserts and future directions are discussed , ultimately supporting the development of sustainable , healthier , and consumer-acceptable fat alternatives in the food industry .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas are rare neuroendocrine tumors , responsible for inappropriate secretion of catecholamines , inducing metabolic disorders , increasing basal metabolic rate . Our study aimed to analyze the metabolic profile pre- and post-operatively in patients undergoing surgery for pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas and additionally to determine the predictive factors of metabolic remission . METHODS : This was a retrospective , unicentric , descriptive , and analytical study with a duration of 9 years . It includes data from 35 patients followed up for pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma in the Endocrinology-Diabetology and Nutrition Department of a University Hospital Center . All patients underwent surgery for pheochromocytoma or paraganglioma . RESULTS : Among the 35 patients , 4% of the patients with pheochromocytomas had diabetes mellitus , and 8% had dyslipidemia . We found that high levels of catecholamines were associated with the onset of diabetes . We also noted that patients with a long history of the disease were statistically at greater risk of developing dyslipidemia . After surgery , the body mass index of our patients had statistically increased , and 50% of patients experienced resolution or improvement of their diabetes . Improvement of dyslipidemia was observed in 53% of patients . We also found that the percentage of dyslipidemia was higher in patients who did not resolve their diabetes . CONCLUSION : Diabetes mellitus and dyslipidemia are metabolic complications that must be investigated in patients with pheochromocytoma . Post-operative monitoring of body mass index and changes in glycemic and lipid levels is essential to adapt therapeutic management . FAU - Bentebbaa , Fatim Zahra
Drinking water is becoming more difficult to treat , especially in the UK , due to the changing concentration and composition of aquatic dissolved organic matter ( DOM ) . The spatial and temporal variations in the DOM composition are not well understood . This study investigated how DOM composition varies along a north/south gradient in the UK , over four years , and between headwaters and reservoirs . There were trends in DOM composition metrics from north to south ; carbohydrate and peptide-like compounds were lower in northern sites , while lipid-like compounds were lower further south , suggesting different sources of DOM in north/south catchments . DOM collected in Autumn 2021 , after a Summer of low rainfall , was more aromatic , less oxidized , and more diverse than DOM collected in 2018- Decreased lipid content and increased oxy-aromatic content occurred in Autumn , at the end of the plant growing season , when increased rainfall rewets catchments and mobilizes soil OM into surface waters . These seasonal changes in DOM composition coincide with increased DOM concentrations in raw drinking water , leading to more challenges for drinking water treatment , especially as climate change alters rainfall distribution in the UK .
Exosomes , as vital mediators of intercellular communication , play a critical role in the progression of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) . Recently , macrophage-derived exosomes ( Mphi-Exos ) have garnered increasing attention because of their significant potential in early diagnosis , pathological processes , and therapeutic applications for CVD . Exosomes contain diverse nucleic acids ( e . g . , miRNAs , mRNAs , and long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) ) and proteins , which serve as specific biomarkers that regulate various stages of CVD . For example , miRNAs encapsulated within exosomes ( e . g . , miR-21 , miR-133a , and miR-155 ) are closely associated with atherosclerosis , myocardial infarction , coronary artery disease , and stroke , and changes in their abundance can serve as diagnostic and prognostic indicators . Additionally , the composition of Mphi-Exos , including miRNAs , lipids , and proteins , plays a significant role in the initiation , progression , and inflammation of CVD . Research on Mphi-Exos provides new directions for early diagnosis , mechanistic exploration , and novel therapeutic targets in CVD . However , challenges remain regarding exosome isolation and identification technologies . Future studies need to further explore the biological properties of exosomes and develop more efficient , economical , and straightforward isolation methods . This review summarizes the multifaceted regulatory roles of Mphi-Exos in CVD , encompassing key processes such as inflammation , angiogenesis , metabolism , and cell death . Research has shown that M1-Exos promote the progression and exacerbation of CVD through pro-inflammatory and pro-fibrotic mechanisms , while M2-Exos demonstrate significant therapeutic potential via anti-inflammatory , pro-angiogenic , and metabolic reprogramming pathways . These findings not only reveal the complex mechanisms of Mphi-Exos in CVD but also provide new perspectives and potential targets for early diagnosis and precision treatment of the disease .
Sepsis-associated encephalopathy ( SAE ) is a common yet poorly understood complication of sepsis , which poses a burden in clinical settings , as its management relies on supportive care without targeted pharmacological interventions . Meldonium is a drug approved for ischemic heart disease but has also gained attention for its neuroprotective effects . In animal models of sepsis , meldonium pretreatment exerted antioxidative , antiapoptotic , and anti-inflammatory effects , but its neurological effects have not been studied in SAE . In the present study , rats were pretreated with meldonium for 4 weeks , before sepsis was induced via a faecal intraperitoneal injection ( FIP ) or a lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) injection . The cerebellum , medulla oblongata , and prefrontal cortex were examined due to their involvement in functions that are often impaired in sepsis . Eight hours post-sepsis induction , markers of brain injury were assessed , including reflexes scores , dry to wet brain mass ratio , prooxidant-antioxidant balance ( PAB ) , advanced oxidation protein products ( AOPP ) , lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) to lysophosphatidylcholine ( LPC ) ratio , HMGB1 and haptoglobin protein expression , and CD73 activity . Meldonium-pretreated FIP-septic rats showed an earlier decline in reflex scores compared to the sepsis-only group , accompanied by a slight brain water accumulation . However , in both models of sepsis , meldonium pretreatment prevented alterations in the PAB , AOPP , and LPO in a region-specific manner . It also preserved the PC/LPC ratio in the prefrontal cortex of FIP-septic rats and in all regions of LPS-septic rats . Haptoglobin protein content was altered only in FIP-septic rats , and preserved by meldonium pretreatment in the cerebellum and medulla oblongata of these rats . Additionally , meldonium pretreatment preserved CD73 activity in the medulla oblongata and prefrontal cortex of FIP-septic rats and in the cerebellum and prefrontal cortex of LPS-septic rats . In conclusion , our study is the first to demonstrate that pretreatment with meldonium , a drug that has shown neuroprotective effects in other invasive models can also provide benefits in SAE , with the extent of protection depending on both the model of sepsis induction and the specific brain region investigated . Our findings support the discussion on the importance of selecting the right sepsis model and studying individual brain regions when investigating SAE and potential therapeutic approaches .
OBJECTIVE : Diabetic wounds are a severe complication of diabetes , with persistently high incidence and mortality rates , often leading to severe clinical outcomes such as amputation . Beta-boswellic acid ( beta-BA ) is a plant-derived pentacyclic triterpene with activities of inflammatory control and ferroptosis regulation . However , the protective effect of beta-BA on DW has not been described . METHOD : We employed network analysis approaches and molecular docking to predict the potential targets and pathways of beta-BA in the treatment of diabetic wounds ( DW ) . Both in vitro and in vivo models were established , including high-glucose-induced fibroblast models and diabetic rat wound models . The effects of beta-BA on diabetic wounds were investigated through CCK-8 assay , wound healing assay , immunofluorescence staining , western blotting , fluorescent probe analysis , gross observation , and histopathological experiments . RESULT : In this study , we predicted potential targets for beta-BA using public databases and identified 29 key genes , with STAT3 being the most significant . GO analysis revealed that these targets are involved in biological processes closely related to ferroptosis , such as regulation of inflammatory response and lipid metabolism . Our results showed that HG induced ferroptosis in HSFs , as evidenced by decreased cell viability , altered GSH/MDA , Fe2+ , and ROS levels , and changes in the expression of ferroptosis-related genes ACSL4 and GPX Notably , treatment with the ferroptosis inhibitor Ferr-1 partly reversed these effects . CCK-8 assays showed that beta-BA improved HSFs viability in a concentration-dependent manner . Immunofluoresc-ence staining and further biochemical analyses demonstrated that beta-BA reduced Fe2+ and lipid peroxide levels , prevented oxidative damage , and improved cell migration ability impaired by HG . Western blot analysis confirmed that beta-BA reversed the changes in ACSL4 and GPX4 expression induced by HG . Molecular docking validated the potential binding between beta-BA and STAT Western blot analysis revealed that beta-BA increased the level of phosphorylated STAT3 in HSFs . Introducing a STAT3 inhibitor diminished the beneficial effects of beta-BA on HG-induced cell dysfunction and suppressed its protective effect against ferroptosis . Finally , we assessed the efficacy of beta-BA in the treatment of diabetic wounds in rats . BA administration accelerated wound closure , reduced inflammatory cell infiltration , improved granulation tissue arrangement , and increased collagen deposition . Immunohistochemical staining showed that BA upregulated the number of STAT3-positive cells and upregulated the number of GPX4-positive cells in the wounds , suggesting that BA can inhibit ferroptosis and accelerate wound healing in diabetic rats . CONCLUSION : Our findings suggested that beta-BA may exert its therapeutic effects on diabetic wounds by targeting STAT3 and inhibiting ferroptosis .
INTRODUCTION : Pulmonary arterial hypertension ( PAH ) remains a challenge to tackle despite various available medications . Metformin , although promising , has major adverse effects ; the use of an appropriate drug delivery method may improve its efficacy and safety . The aim of this study was to develop a novel treatment for PAH using metformin . We developed a novel approach of using low-dose metformin encapsulated in pulmonary artery-targeted nanocapsules to alleviate PAH while avoiding adverse effects . METHODS : Metformin-loaded lung-targeted nanocapsules ( MET nanocapsules ) were created using a specific lipid composition , including cationic lipids . Their uptake and effects on cell viability were assessed in human pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells ( hPASMCs ) from healthy individuals and patients with PAH . Their therapeutic effects were assessed in a PAH rat model . The safety of MET nanocapsules was confirmed using rat serum biochemical tests . RESULTS : We successfully prepared MET nanocapsules and demonstrated their effectiveness in inhibiting PASMC proliferation . In PAH model rats , MET nanocapsule treatment led to improved hemodynamics , right ventricular hypertrophy , and pulmonary arterial medial thickening . The nanocapsules effectively accumulated in the lungs of PAH model rats . CONCLUSION : Intravenous administration of MET nanocapsules is a safe and innovative therapeutic approach for PAH . This method could improve PAH treatment outcomes while minimizing adverse effects , with potential applications in other types of pulmonary hypertension .
AIM : Limited researches have investigated the association between the Triglyceride-glucose index ( TyG ) and frailty vulnerability in middle-aged and older Chinese populations . This study aims to strengthen the scientific foundation for frailty prevention and management by analyzing the correlation between TyG and frailty , ultimately providing more targeted intervention strategies . METHODS : This study included middle-aged and older individuals who participated in the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) from A multiple logistic regression model was constructed to assess the correlation between the TyG index and frailty . Additionally , restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) analysis was employed to evaluate the dose-response correlation between the two variables . RESULTS : Among the 3 , 978 participants included in the study , 667 individuals ( 8% ) were identified with frailty . After adjusting for multiple factors in a logistic regression model , it was determined that individuals in the highest quartile group of the TyG index had a 43 times higher risk of frailty compared to those in the lowest quartile group ( OR = 43 , 95% CI : 10 ~ 85 , p = 007 ) . The RCS analysis further revealed a positive dose-response relationship , indicating that a higher TyG index was associated with an increased risk of frailty in middle-aged and older adults . CONCLUSION : Research has shown a significant positive linear relationship between an increased TyG index and a higher prevalence of frailty in middle-aged and older individuals . Elevated TyG index levels could signal an increased vulnerability to frailty among individuals .
BACKGROUND : Recent studies have highlighted an association between lipid disorders and sarcopenia . The role of the non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio ( NHHR ) has not been explored among Chinese adults . This study aimed to investigate the association between the NHHR and incident sarcopenia in the Chinese population . METHODS : The study included a total of 4 , 046 participants aged 50 years and older without a history of sarcopenia , from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) . A multivariate logistic regression model and a restricted cubic spline model were used to investigate the association between NHHR and sarcopenia . Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of the findings . RESULTS : A total of 309 ( 6% ) participants were newly diagnosed with sarcopenia in the 2015 wave . Participants in the highest NHHR quartile ( >/=99 ) had a significantly lower adjusted odds ratio for sarcopenia ( OR = 40 ; 95% CI , 58 ; p < 001 ) compared with those in the lowest quartile ( <24 ) . Restricted cubic spline analysis revealed a nonlinear relationship between NHHR and sarcopenia risk ( p for nonlinearity <05 ) . In piecewise regression models , the adjusted OR for sarcopenia was 65 ( 95% CI , 78 , p < 001 ) among participants with NHHR <4 , whereas no significant correlation was observed among those with NHHR >/= No significant interactions were found between NHHR and age , sex , hypertension , or diabetes in stratified analysis ( p for interaction >05 ) . CONCLUSION : There is an inverse relationship between NHHR and sarcopenia risk in the Chinese population . A higher NHHR is associated with a lower risk of sarcopenia below the inflection point , beyond which NHHR is no longer significantly associated with sarcopenia risk .
Despite biomolecule delivery is a natural function of extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) , low loading of exogenous macromolecules such as proteins into EVs limits their interest as convincing protein delivery systems for health applications . In this context , lipid-anchorage of exogenous cargo into EV membrane recently emerged as a promising option to enable their vectorisation into cells . Nevertheless , this option was not explored for protein intracellular delivery , and further characterisation of critical parameters governing the association of a lipid-anchored cargo protein to EVs is still needed to confirm the relevance of this anchorage strategy . Therefore , we sought to identify these parameters in a precise and quantitative manner , using bulk and single nanoparticle analysis methods to identify protein loading capacity and subsequent intracellular delivery . We identified incubation temperature , cargo concentration , lipid anchor ( LA ) structure ( lipid nature , linker ) and EV origin as critical factors influencing maximal EV loading capacity . Precise control of these parameters enabled to load cargo protein close to EV saturation without hindering cellular delivery . The structural properties of LA influenced not only cargo protein/EV association but also intracellular delivery into different carcinoma cell lines . By thoroughly characterising Lipid-PEG-protein anchorage , this study evidences the interest of this tunable and controllable approach for efficient EV protein delivery .
Tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance is a key factor affecting the prognosis of patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . Previously , our group demonstrated that HCC patients with high stomatin-like protein 2 ( STOML2 ) expression were poorly sensitive to systemic therapy . Whether STOML2 is involved in sorafenib resistance is unclear . Recent mechanistic studies have demonstrated that selective activation of ferroptosis pathways is expected to restore sorafenib sensitivity . The aim of the present study was to investigate the STOML2-ferroptosis axis and its contribution to sorafenib resistance . In this study , STOML2 expression was detected in tissue microarrays from patients with primary HCC and in human cell lines . Functional proliferative clone formation assay was used to study the biological function of STOML Ferroptosis was detected by flow cytometry , cellular lipid peroxidation and the malondialdehyde ( MDA ) test . Western blotting and qPCR assays were used to verify the STOML2-AKT-solute carrier family 7 membrane 11 ( SLC7A11 ) axis and to explore the possible mechanism of the combination of LY294002 ( an AKT inhibitor ) in patients with advanced HCC . The results indicated that patients with poor efficacy demonstrated higher expression of STOML2 compared with that in samples derived from patients with good efficacy . Knockdown of STOML2 expression inhibited colony formation and IC in HCC cell lines treated with sorafenib . High STOML2 expression was negatively correlated with ferroptosis as shown by Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis . STOML2 inhibited ferroptosis by activating the AKT-SLC7A11 axis , which promoted increased intracellular antioxidant capacity . The AKT inhibitor LY294002 exhibited synergistic antitumor effects with sorafenib in HCC . In conclusion , the present study demonstrated that STOML2 could enhance the AKT-SLC7A11-mediated antioxidant capacity in HCC , inhibit ferroptosis and reduce the sensitivity of HCC to sorafenib , providing a theoretical basis for the combination of LY294002 and sorafenib .
The Endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) , an organelle present in various eukaryotic cells , is responsible for protein synthesis , modification , folding , and transport , as well as for the regulation of lipid metabolism and Ca ( 2+ ) homeostasis . ER stress plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis and therapeutic response of non-small cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) , significantly influencing cellular fate decisions through its unique sensing and regulatory mechanisms . This review aims to elucidate the key role of ER stress sensors and to explore how they mediate cell autophagy , apoptosis , and non-apoptotic modes of cell death in the context of drug-treated NSCLC . This investigation lays a solid foundation for optimizing future treatment strategies for NSCLC .
Fatty acids in pork are involved in cellular physiological functions and related to meat nutrition , tenderness , and flavor . Increasing evidences have suggested that short-chain fatty acids produced by the gut microbiota may affect host metabolism and energy utilization . However , the association between gut microbiota and long-chain fatty acids ( LCFAs ) in pork has been largely unknown . In this study , the microbial compositions of 243 cecum content samples from Erhualian pigs and 235 fecal samples from Bamaxiang pigs were determined by high throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing . The contents of 12 LCFAs in longissimus dorsi ( LD ) muscle were also determined for all experimental pigs of both pig populations . We systematically evaluated the contribution of gut microbiota to the variations of muscle fatty acid contents from the alpha-diversity of gut microbiota , co-abundance groups ( CAGs ) of Amplicon Sequence Variants ( ASVs ) , and fatty acid-associated bacterial taxa . We identified hundred ASVs and > 40 bacterial taxa that were significantly associated with muscle fatty acid contents in two pig populations . Different numbers and bacterial taxa associated with the content of specific LCFAs in muscle were detected between cecum luminal content and fecal samples , suggesting the heterogeneity of the specific LCFA-associated bacterial taxa between two gut locations . We uncovered some interesting associations between bacterial taxa and muscle fatty acid contents . The strongest association was observed between the ASV annotated to Akkermansia and the n-6/n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid ratio ( p = 45E-04 , Z = -65 ) . The gut microbiota could explain 47-62% variation of muscle contents of twelve fatty acids . The functional prediction analysis identified that the KEGG pathways related to the metabolisms of carbohydrate and lipids , and to fat digestion and absorption were positively associated with the contents of muscle fatty acids . However , adipocytokine signaling pathway and thermogenesis were negatively associated with muscle fatty acid contents . The results from this study provided the basic knowledge for improving the muscle fatty acid contents by regulating the gut microbiome .
OBJECTIVE : To assess the prognostic value of lipid profiles and their ratios , particularly the white blood cell to high-density lipoprotein ( WBC/HDL ) ratio , for predicting 28-day and 1-year all-cause mortality in ischemic stroke patients admitted to the ICU . METHODS : A retrospective cohort study was conducted using the MIMIC-IV ICU database , including 2 , 894 ischemic stroke patients . Lipid profiles-including total cholesterol , triglycerides , low-density lipoprotein , and high-density lipoprotein-and derived ratios were analyzed . Associations with mortality were assessed using Cox proportional hazards models adjusted for demographic and clinical factors . Restricted cubic spline and Kaplan-Meier survival analyses were utilized to explore the relationship between the WBC/HDL ratio and mortality risk . RESULTS : Traditional lipid profiles and their ratios were not significantly associated with 28-day or 1-year mortality . Conversely , an elevated WBC/HDL ratio was independently associated with increased mortality risk at both 28 days ( hazard ratio : 198 ; 95% confidence interval : 864-225 ) and 1 year ( hazard ratio : 163 ; 95% confidence interval : 947-334 ) . Restricted cubic spline analysis demonstrated a linear relationship between the WBC/HDL ratio and mortality risk , while Kaplan-Meier analyses indicated significantly poorer survival outcomes for patients with higher WBC/HDL ratios . INTERPRETATION : The WBC/HDL ratio is a superior prognostic marker for mortality in ischemic stroke patients admitted to the ICU , outperforming traditional lipid profiles . Incorporating this measure into clinical practice may enhance early risk stratification and guide targeted interventions .
The evolution of nanotechnology-driven lipid and metalloid-based nanoformulations has garnered significant attention for developing effective drug delivery systems with position/time precision and efficacy . This study focuses on challenges of blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) and their pivotal role in drug targeting in chronic diseases such as brain tumors ( BTs ) . These formulations encapsulate therapeutic agents within lipidic matrices , enhancing drug solubility , bioavailability , and targeted delivery . The diverse lipid materials used in these nanoformulations highlight their biocompatibility and versatility , covering a wide range of drugs . Emphasis is placed on metal nanoparticles , liposomes , ethosomes , quantum dots , carbon nanotubes , nanorobots , and micelles . The analysis explores their drug loading , stability , release characteristics , and bioavailability modulation . It also delves into the enhanced-permeability and retention ( EPR ) effect , crucial for passive targeting of tumors . Recent nanocarrier systems enable better penetration of therapeutic compounds through the BBB , addressing treatment failures in invasive BTs . This review highlights the latest nanotechnology developments and potential therapeutic approaches , serving as a valuable resource for researchers , clinicians , and pharmaceutical scientists .
Cholesteryl ester hydrolase ( CEH ) is a critical enzyme in cholesterol ester hydrolysis , influencing cholesterol metabolism and efflux . This study demonstrates that CEH overexpression promotes free cholesterol efflux from macrophages , thereby reducing the lipid burden in existing atherosclerotic plaques . To enable targeted delivery , galactose-functionalized polyamidoamine ( PAMAM ) dendrimeric nanoparticles were utilized as nanocarriers for hepatic delivery of the CEH expression vector . The therapeutic potential of CEH plasmid-loaded dendrimeric nanoparticles was evaluated in Ldlr ( -/- ) mice . Results showed a significant reduction in total lesion area ( 21% ) and aortic arch lesion area ( 23% ) compared to baseline . Lesion component analysis revealed marked decreases in total cholesterol ( 36% ) , free cholesterol ( 35% ) , and cholesterol esters ( 44% ) . Collectively , these results support CEH overexpression as an effective strategy to enhance cholesterol efflux and mitigate lipid accumulation in atherosclerotic plaques . Moreover , galactose-functionalized PAMAM dendrimeric nanoparticles demonstrate strong potential as a targeted hepatic gene delivery system for therapeutic intervention in atherosclerosis .
Inflammatory response , oxidative stress , and pyroptosis play important roles in the pathogenesis of diabetic kidney disease ( DKD ) , and the NOD-like receptor protein 3 ( NLRP3 ) inflammasome complex and pyroptosis are possible cellular regulators dependent on these processes . Treatment of DKD relies on sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 inhibitors ( SGLT2is ) ; however , its effects on oxidative stress and the NLRP3 complex have not yet been fully elucidated . This study aimed to evaluate the role of a SGLT2i in the regulation of the redox system , inflammatory profile , and NLRP3 inflammasome in an experimental model of DKD . Briefly , C57BL/6 mice were subjected to a DKD model induced by the combination of a high-caloric diet and streptozotocin ( 40 mg/kg ) . The animals were exposed to empagliflozin 35 mg/kg , and clinical ( plasma glucose , water and caloric intake , and weight gain ) and functional ( glycosuria and albuminuria ) parameters were subsequently evaluated . After 25 weeks , the animals were euthanized for evaluation of histological parameters , redox activity , NLRP3 complex activity , and pyroptosis . Our results showed that DKD model animals had clinical features of DKD , namely , high body mass index , glucose levels , albuminuria , and glomerular area . Empagliflozin reduced glycemia levels , glomerular area , HO levels , IL-1beta , IL-1alpha , and TNF-alpha levels , lipid peroxidation , and protein carbonylation . It also improved urinary albumin excretion and decreased gasdermin D levels . No changes were observed in the NLRP3 complex proteins . In conclusion , the SGLT2i empagliflozin improved glycemic control and reduced glomerular damage through control of the redox profile and inflammatory parameters , indicating its potential as a treatment for DKD .
INTRODUCTION : Cholesterolosis bulbi is an ocular condition characterized by the accumulation of cholesterol crystals in the vitreous cavity . This case describes the development of anterior chamber cholesterolosis bulbi secondary to retinal capillary hemangioma . CASE PRESENTATION : A 26-year-old female , tested negative for von Hippel-Lindau ( VHL ) syndrome , presented with yellow shinny crystals filling the anterior chamber of the left eye and similar depositions filling the vitreous cavity along with reactivated hemangioma with new feeder vessels . She was diagnosed previously with bilateral capillary retinal hemangiomas . Anterior chamber and vitreous washout and endo-laser photocoagulation for the hemangioma were performed . Analysis of the aqueous sample revealed numerous well-demarcated , rectangular , or polygonal lipid-like crystals on light microscopy . Cholesterolosis bulbi secondary to retinal capillary hemangioma was established . CONCLUSIONS : Cholesterolosis bulbi secondary to retinal capillary hemangioma is a rare association and would warrant for extensive tumor or associated complications .
Background Psoriasis is a chronic , immune-mediated inflammatory disease primarily affecting the skin and joints , but it also induces systemic inflammation that disrupts metabolic processes . This systemic involvement contributes to a myriad of comorbidities , including diabetes , dyslipidemia , hypertension , obesity , cardiovascular disease , and psoriatic arthritis . Objective This study aimed to examine the relationship between psoriasis and the development of dyslipidemia and , ultimately , cardiovascular diseases . Materials and methods A comparative cross-sectional study was conducted with a total of 164 individuals ( 82 psoriasis cases and 82 controls ) within a study period of two years ( June 2022 to June 2024 ) . The severity of psoriasis was calculated using the psoriasis area and severity index ( PASI ) score . Fasting lipid levels and electrocardiography ( ECG ) were done for patients who consented . Results Among 82 cases , the mean PASI score was 89 , with the majority ( 37 , 1% ) having mild psoriasis . The prevalence of dyslipidemia was significantly higher in psoriasis patients ( 61 , 3% ) compared to controls ( 34 , 4% ) , with the majority ( 26 , 71% ) having elevated low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) levels . The most commonly observed ECG change among psoriasis patients was rhythm abnormalities ( 17 , 7% ) , followed by conduction block ( 6 , 3% ) and ischemic changes ( 5 , 1% ) , with ECG changes being more prevalent in cases ( 33 , 24% ) than controls ( 25 , 49% ) , but with no statistical significance . Conclusion The higher prevalence of dyslipidemia , particularly elevated LDL levels , highlights the need for cardiovascular risk assessment in psoriasis patients . Although ECG changes were observed , their relevance to psoriasis needs to be further studied . Overall , this study emphasizes the importance of comprehensive management strategies addressing both dermatological manifestations and associated systemic conditions to improve patient outcomes in psoriasis .
The objective of the present study was to evaluate the effects of exogenous bile acids ( BAs ) on production performance , serum biochemistry , lipid metabolism , and intestinal morphology in broilers . A total of 20 , 000 one-day-old Arbor Acres broilers were randomly assigned to two treatment groups , with eight replicates of 1 , 250 chicks each , for a duration of 42 days . The control group broilers were provided with normal drinking water , while the treatment group broilers were provided with drinking water supplemented with 100 mL of BAs per ton . The results showed that BAs supplementation significantly decreased abdominal fat yield ( p < 05 ) , while having no significant effect on other slaughter characteristics ( p > 05 ) . In addition , BAs supplementation significantly decreased serum acrylic aminotransferase concentrations ( p < 05 ) . Moreover , BAs supplementation also significantly decreased the mRNA expression of lipogenesis-related genes ( p < 05 ) and increased the mRNA expression of lipolysis-related genes in the liver ( p < 05 ) . Furthermore , BAs supplementation significantly improved jejunal morphology by increasing jejunum villus height ( VH ) ( p < 05 ) . In summary , BAs supplementation improved production performance , serum enzyme activity , lipid metabolism , and intestinal morphology in broilers , providing a theoretical basis for the application of BAs in broiler production .
Superovulation and embryo transfer technologies provide strong support for improving the productivity of cattle population . A non-invasive diagnostic method for superovulation prediction is necessary to improve its efficiency . Compared to macromolecular substances , there has been an increasing number of studies on small molecular metabolites as biomarkers . This study aimed to identify key biomarkers associated with superovulation outcomes in cows through serum metabolomics analysis . In this study , 36 induced estrus cows were selected , and the blood samples were collected at three time points : before FSH injection , before artificial insemination , and before embryo collection . Then , the cows were classified into high embryonic yield ( HEY ) and low embryonic yield ( LEY ) groups based on the total number of embryos . Furthermore , a serum untargeted metabolomics analysis of the two groups was conducted using liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) . A total of 372 embryos were collected . The metabolomics analysis revealed that 1 , 158 metabolites were detected , and 617 were annotated . In the before FSH injection samples , 121 differential metabolites were identified between the two groups . In the before artificial insemination samples , 129 differential metabolites were identified . In the before embryo collection samples , 201 differential metabolites were identified . A total of 11 differential metabolites were shared between the before FSH injection and before artificial insemination samples , while five differential metabolites were shared across all three samples . The majority of the differential metabolites were significantly enriched in pathways related to amino acid and fatty acid metabolism , digestive system secretion , and ovarian steroidogenesis . This study showed that phosphatidylcholine [PC ; 14 : 0/22 : 1 ( 13Z ) ] , phosphatidylethanolamine [PE ; DiMe ( 11 , 3 ) ] , triacylglycerol [TG ; 15 : 0/16 : 0/22 : 4 ( 7Z , 10Z , 13Z , 16Z ) ] , phosphatidylinositol [PI ; 16 : 0/22 : 2 ( 13Z , 16Z ) ] , and phosphatidylserine [PS ; 18 : 0/20 : 4 ( 8Z , 11Z , 14Z , 17Z ) ] were differentially expressed in the serum during the superovulation period . These could serve as potential biomarkers for embryonic yield prediction in bovine superovulation . The lipid and amino acid metabolic pathways may have an impact on the ovarian response . The results of this study could provide novel screening indexes of donors for bovine superovulation , although the accuracy of the relevant factors requires further investigation .
BACKGROUND : Acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) is characterized by diffuse lung injury and high mortality rates due to severe inflammation . Adipose tissue , functioning as both an endocrine and immune organ , plays a crucial role in immune regulation by secreting a variety of adipokines . Among these , adipose tissue-derived extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) have emerged as novel mediators of intercellular communication , capable of delivering bioactive molecules such as microRNAs to target cells . This study aimed to elucidate the immunomodulatory roles and underlying mechanisms of adipose tissue-derived EVs in the pathogenesis of ARDS . METHODS : Subcutaneous adipose tissue extracellular vesicles ( SAT-EVs ) were collected from the mice via ultracentrifugation . C57BL/6 mice were administered SAT-EVs ( 1x10 ; 9 particles per mouse ) via tail vein injection , followed by an intraperitoneal Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) injection three hours later to induce acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ARDS ) . The mice were euthanized after 18 h to evaluate the permeability of the microvessels and level of inflammation in the lungs . For in vitro experiments , RAW 7 macrophages were stimulated with LPS , with or without SAT-EVs , as a control , to evaluate the inflammatory response of the macrophages . RESULTS : SAT-EVs treatment enhanced the survival rate of ARDS mice and reduced pulmonary vascular permeability . SAT-EVs were internalized by alveolar macrophages , leading to an attenuation of inflammation , as indicated by decreased levels of TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , iNOS , PTGS2 , and CCL Notably , SAT-EVs transferred miR-26a-5p to alveolar macrophages , which directly targeted conserved helix-loop-helix ubiquitous kinase ( CHUK ) , a key regulator of the NF-kappaB pathway . This inhibition resulted in reduced transcription of inflammatory mediators ( iNOS , PTGS2 , and IL-1beta ) . In vitro , SAT-EVs were internalized by RAW 7 macrophages , leading to the suppression of LPS-induced inflammation , as shown by decreased expression of TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , iNOS , PTGS2 , and CCL These findings suggest that miR-26a-5p plays a crucial role in the anti-inflammatory effects of SAT-EVs by suppressing CHUK and modulating the NF-kappaB pathway . CONCLUSION : SAT-EVs significantly attenuated LPS-induced ARDS , potentially through the CHUK/NF-kappaB pathway mediated by miR-26a-5p , thereby exerting protective effects against inflammatory lung injury . These findings provide mechanistic insights into the role of SAT-EVs in immune modulation and suggest their potential as a therapeutic strategy for ARDS .
BACKGROUND : Given the global prevalence of vitamin D deficiency , this study examines the association between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D ( 25 ( OH ) D ) levels and lipid profiles , including total cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , and triglycerides ( TG ) . METHODS : In a cross-sectional analysis at the Yuhuan People ' s Hospital Physical Examination Center , 1535 asymptomatic individuals underwent anthropometric assessment and blood sampling . Serum 25 ( OH ) D levels were quantified by a chemiluminescent immunoassay , while lipid parameters were evaluated by an enzymatic method on a fully automated analyzer . RESULTS : The mean serum 25 ( OH ) D level of the participants was 6 +/- 3 nmol/L , with 7% demonstrating vitamin D deficiency . Female participants had significantly lower mean 25 ( OH ) D levels ( 2 +/- 7 nmol/L ) than males ( 1 +/- 0 nmol/L , P < 001 ) . After adjustment for age and BMI , multivariate ordinal logistic analysis revealed a 71-fold higher dyslipidemia-associated risk of vitamin D deficiency in the population ( OR=71 , 95% CI=07-79 ) , more pronounced in females ( OR=84 , 95% CI=17-09 ) compared to males ( OR=44 , 95% CI=82-58 ) . Notably , vitamin D deficiency was significantly associated with elevated LDL-C levels in females ( OR=17 , 95% CI=47-96 ) , in contrast to males . CONCLUSION : This study highlights a significant association between 25 ( OH ) D deficiency and an increased risk of dyslipidemia , especially in females , highlighting the importance of considering gender-specific risk factors in the management of 25 ( OH ) D deficiency .
BACKGROUND : Hyperuricemia ( HUA ) is a metabolic disorder characterized by elevated serum uric acid levels resulting from dysfunction in purine metabolism and/or inadequate uric acid excretion . It is an independent risk factor for many chronic diseases and is associated with a poor long-term prognosis . Existing uric acid-lowering drugs often lead to numerous adverse reactions , resulting in poor patient compliance and limited clinical application . Therefore , this study aims to investigate the effect of Kuiyuan Chewing Tablet ( KYCT ) on serum uric acid ( SUA ) levels in patients with HUA , and to seek a safe alternative therapy for reducing uric acid . METHODS AND ANALYSIS : This study is a multicenter , randomized , double-blind , parallel-controlled trial . HUA patients who meet the inclusion criteria will be randomly assigned in a 1 : 1 ratio to either the control group ( placebo of KYCT , specifications : 3g per tablet , 2g per dose , twice a day , taken with warm water 30 minutes after meals ) or the experimental group ( KYCT , specifications : 3g per tablet , 2g per dose , twice a day , taken with warm water 30 minutes after meals ) . Both groups will receive dietary control , comorbidity prevention , and health education during the intervention period . The primary outcome will be the proportion of subjects with SUA levels <420 umol/L . Secondary outcomes will include the proportion of subjects with SUA levels <360 umol/L , the percentage change in SUA levels from baseline to each visit , the maximum percentage change in SUA levels from baseline to the third month , the number of gout attacks , changes in body measurements ( weight , waist circumference , hip circumference , BMI ) , blood pressure , blood lipids , fasting blood glucose levels , and the proportion of subjects reporting gout attacks ( cumulative up to each visit ) . Each group of patients will be assessed at baseline , as well as at the 4th , 8th , and 12th weeks . DISCUSSION : This study aims to evaluate the effects of a 12-week treatment with KYCT on patients with HUA . We hypothesize that compared to placebo , KYCT would significantly improve SUA levels without provoking significant adverse reactions . These findings potentially pave the way for a safe and effective alternative therapy for HUA .
OBJECTIVE : To ascertain whether vascular complications and high lipoprotein ( a ) [Lp ( a ) ] concentrations are related in individuals with early-onset type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) . METHODS : This observational cross-sectional study included 591 individuals with early-onset T2DM who were divided into four groups based on Lp ( a ) values which was measured using immunoturbidimetry and presented as mg/dL : high , >50 ; intermediate , 30</=Lp ( a ) <50 ; low , 10</=Lp ( a ) <30 ; and very low , < The relationship between the risk of vascular complications and Lp ( a ) level was examined using a logistic regression model . RESULTS : The median age of onset for individuals with early-onset T2DM ( n=591 ) was 37 years , duration of diabetes was 12 years , and glycated hemoglobin ( HbA1c ) level was 8% . The median Lp ( a ) was 40 ( 80-80 ) mg/dL , and Lp ( a ) concentration did not correlate with age , sex , or glycemic control ( P>05 ) . Individuals in the low Lp ( a ) ( OR=12 , 95% CI 17-84 , P<05 ) , intermediate Lp ( a ) ( OR=76 , 95% CI 10-98 , P<05 ) and high Lp ( a ) ( OR=79 , 95% CI 03-31 , P<01 ) groups had an increased risk of coronary heart disease ( CHD ) compared with those in the very low Lp ( a ) group after adjustment . Nevertheless , among individuals with early-onset T2DM , there was no correlation between Lp ( a ) concentration and the risk of cerebrovascular disease ( CVL ) and microvascular complications ( P>05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In patients with early-onset T2DM , Lp ( a ) concentration was independently associated with CHD . Lp ( a ) testing is essential to determine who has a latent high risk of CHD among patients with early-onset T2DM .
BACKGROUND : Osteoporotic fractures ( OPFs ) pose a considerable global health burden and are linked with an elevated mortality risk . The triglyceride-glucose index ( TyG-I ) is a recognized marker of insulin resistance across various populations . The association between all-cause mortality ( ACM ) and the TyG-I has been widely investigated in a variety of clinical settings . The potential sex-specific differences in this association among OPF patients remain uncertain . METHODS : In this retrospective cohort study , 2 , 307 patients >/= 50 years old admitted to the hospital between January 2018 and August 2023 for surgical treatment of OPFs were included . The TyG-I was determined using fasting triglyceride and glucose levels measured at admission . The association between ACM and the TyG-I was evaluated by Cox proportional hazards regression , adjusting for possible confounding variables . Analyses were categorized by sex , and subgroup analyses evaluated possible interaction effects . The ACM rates among TyG-I tertiles were compared via Kaplan-Meier curves . RESULTS : This research study analyzed 2 , 307 patients , of whom 247 ( 71% ) died from any cause during the follow-up period . In females , a linear association of the TyG-I with ACM was observed even after adjusting for confounders , with each unit increase in the TyG-I correlating with a 37% increased risk of death ( HR : 37 , 95% CI : 06-77 , p = 02 ) . However , in males , there was a non-linear correlation , where patients in the uppermost TyG-I tertile showed a substantially decreased mortality risk relative to those in the lowest tertile ( HR : 53 , 95% CI : 30-92 , p = 02 ) . TyG-I indicated a statistically significant relation with sex ( P for interaction = 01 ) . CONCLUSION : In patients diagnosed with OPFs , distinct sex-specific variations were observed in the relationship between ACM and the TyG-I . Among female patients , each unit increase in the TyG-I was linked to a 37% greater risk of mortality . Conversely , male patients within the highest TyG-I tertile indicated a lower mortality risk than those in the lowest tertile . Further research is required to confirm these sex-specific associations .
BACKGROUND : The relationship between the low-density lipoprotein/high-density lipoprotein ( LDL/HDL ) ratio , an indicator of lipid metabolism and assessment of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk , and Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is unclear . METHODS : Multivariable Cox regression analyses were used to examine the association of LDL/HDL ratio and the risk of AD . Multiple linear regression and mixed effects models used to assess associations between LDL/HDL and cognitive function , AD pathology , and brain structure . Mediation analyses examined AD pathology ' s potential mediating role between the LDL/HDL ratio and cognition . RESULTS : Higher LDL/HDL ratio correlated with lower AD risk ( HR 644 [431 , 962] ) . In the linear regression analyses , the LDL/HDL ratio were positively associated with cognition . Longitudinally , the LDL/HDL ratio also positively with cognitive measures . Besides , higher LDL/HDL ratio were associated Abeta and decreased Tau , pTau , Tau/Abeta , pTau/Abeta , and pTau/Tau . The LDL/HDL ratio was positively associated with brain structures such as hippocampal volume . Mediation analyses revealed AD pathology mediated the association between LDL/HDL ratio and cognition . CONCLUSION : The LDL/HDL ratio is associated with AD risk , cognition , AD biomarkers and brain structure and can affect cognition by AD biomarkers .
BACKGROUND : The relationship between acne vulgaris and lipid profiles has been the subject of limited research across diverse populations , yielding conflicting results . The aim of this study was to determine whether there are any significant differences in lipid profile and selected apolipoproteins between two groups : adolescents and young adults with acne vulgaris and an age- and sex-matched control group . Additionally , the study aimed to identify indicators associated with severe acne vulgaris . METHODS : The cross-sectional study involved 100 adolescent and young adult patients ( 50 adolescents aged 11-18 years and 50 young adults aged 19-26 years ) who were visitors to the Dermatology Unit of Azadi Teaching Hospital in Duhok City , Kurdistan Region of Iraq , diagnosed with acne vulgaris . These patients were compared with a control group of 90 healthy individuals who were matched for age , sex , and BMI ( body mass index ) . Measurements included lipid profile , apolipoprotein A ( Apo A ) , apolipoprotein B , and lipase . The Ethics Committee of the Directorate of Health of Duhok City Governate approved the study ( reference number : 15092021-9-3 ) . Data were statistically analyzed using SPSS software ( version 0 for Windows ) , and the p value </= 05 was considered statistically significant . RESULTS : The results showed an increase in total cholesterol , triglycerides , HDL-C ( high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ) , non-HDL-C , and Apo A in the acne vulgaris group compared with the control group ( 5 +/- 36 , 4 +/- 5 , 9 +/- 9 , 6 +/- 41 , and 5 +/- 26 versus 129 +/- 5 , 1 +/- 9 , 4 +/- 1 , 6 +/- 1 and 6 +/- 4 , respectively ) , all with p values of </= The regression model showed that an increase in one unit of cholesterol resulted in a 4% increase in the odds of acne vulgaris ( p < 001 ) . The severity of acne vulgaris was associated with age ( mild ( 9 +/- 7 ) , moderate ( 09 +/- 8 ) , severe ( 20 +/- 7 ) , p < 05 ) and with a decrease in Apo A levels compared with the mild group ( 2 +/- 5 and 200 +/- 9 , respectively , p < 05 ) . There was a significant increase in non-HDL-C levels in young adult patients compared with adolescent patients ( 8 +/- 3 versus 5 +/- 9 , p = 01 ) . CONCLUSIONS : High cholesterol is a feature of adolescent and young adult patients with acne vulgaris . Older patients tend to have more severe forms of acne , which are significantly associated with elevated non-HDL-C levels . Decreased Apo A levels have also been identified as an additional indicator of severe cases of acne vulgaris .
CONTEXT : Patients with adult-onset craniopharyngioma ( CP ) show metabolic dysfunction and panhypopituitarism . Growth hormone ( GH ) deficiency is often left unaddressed despite the benefits of GH replacement on body composition and lipoprotein metabolism in the general population . OBJECTIVE : The aim was to analyze data from Hypopituitary Control and Complications Study ( HypoCCS ) , a global prospective surveillance study of adult GH replacement , and assess the impact of GH replacement on metabolic outcomes in adult-onset CP . METHODS : Primary outcome was a composite endpoint of adverse hepatic outcomes including metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ; secondary outcomes included body composition , lipids , blood pressure , glycemic measures , mortality , bone density , and cardiovascular endpoints . RESULTS : In total , 592 patients with adult-onset CP were identified ; 544 received GH for a median of 03 years ( IQR 28-82 ) . The 3972 patients with pituitary adenoma ( 3346 receiving GH ) were analyzed for context . GH replacement did not impact hepatic outcomes in either cohort . In adult-onset CP , bone mineral content was significantly lower with GH replacement ( estimated mean [est] : 90 g ; 95% CI -49 , -31 ; P = . 034 ) ; lower waist-hip ratio and less dyslipidemia medication use were also seen . In pituitary adenomas , fasting blood glucose ( est 45 ; 95% CI 24 , 66 ; P < . 001 ) , diastolic blood pressure ( est 44 ; 95% CI 45 , 43 ; P = . 005 ) , and mean arterial pressure ( est 20 ; 95% CI 14 , 26 ; P = . 027 ) were significantly higher . CONCLUSION : GH led to decreased waist-hip ratio and lipid medication use but adversely impacted bone mineral content in adult-onset CP . Prospective studies of GH replacement in adult-onset CP can further define the benefits on metabolic outcomes in these patients .
BACKGROUND : Cardiovascular disease remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality globally . International guidelines recommend aggressive lipid-lowering therapy ( LLT ) in patients with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) , targeting a low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) level of < 55 mg/dL and a >/= 50% reduction from baseline . However , real-world studies continue to show suboptimal LDL-C target achievement . This study aimed to assess the proportion of post-acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) patients achieving both LDL-C < 55 mg/dL and a >/= 50% reduction from baseline at 6 months . A secondary objective was to evaluate target achievement after 1 year and analyze outcomes across different LLT regimens . METHODS : We conducted a retrospective cohort study at a single tertiary center , including patients aged >/= 18 years who presented with ACS between January 2021 and January 2022 , underwent percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ) , and had documented LDL-C levels at baseline and at least one follow-up within 12 months . Patients with baseline LDL-C </= 55 mg/dL or on ongoing LLT were excluded . RESULTS : A total of 122 patients were included ( mean age 5 years ; 8% had both diabetes and hypertension ) . At 6 months , only 13/82 patients ( 9% ) achieved the primary LDL-C target . The highest achievement was seen in the rosuvastatin + ezetimibe group ( 0% ) , followed by rosuvastatin ( 9% ) , atorvastatin + ezetimibe ( 3% ) , and atorvastatin monotherapy ( 0% ) . A >/= 50% LDL-C reduction without meeting the < 55 mg/dL threshold was observed in 24/82 patients ( 3% ) . CONCLUSIONS : LDL-C target achievement remains low among post-ACS patients despite high-intensity statin use . Combination therapy with rosuvastatin + ezetimibe showed more favorable outcomes , particularly in older adults . These findings underscore the need for structured follow-up , treatment intensification , and broader use of advanced therapies such as proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( PCSK9 ) inhibitors to close the real-world treatment gap .
The clinical antiprotozoal drug nitazoxanide has been demonstrated to improve the experimental diabetes mellitus , lipid metabolism disorders , atherosclerosis and inhibit inflammation . Since the pathogenesis of heart failure with preserved ejection ( HFpEF ) is multifactorial and closely associated with the aforementioned diseases , we aim to study the effect of nitazoxanide on high-fat diet ( HFD ) plus L-NAME ( N omega-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester ) -induced HFpEF and metabolic syndrome in mice . We found that oral nitazoxanide improved cardiac hypertrophy , cardiac fibrosis , cardiac diastolic dysfunction , increased blood pressure , impaired exercise tolerance , impaired glucose handling , serum lipid disorders , hepatic steatosis , increased weight of white adipose tissues and kidney fibrosis in HFD + L-NAME-treated mice . In the established HFD + L-NAME-induced HFpEF and metabolic syndrome mouse model , therapeutic treatment with nitazoxanide rescued HFD + L-NAME-induced pathological phenotypes as mentioned above . The in vitro experiments revealed that tizoxanide , the active metabolite of nitazoxanide , increased the basal mitochondria metabolism of cardiomyocytes , inhibited cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and collagen secretion from cardiac fibroblasts , and relaxed phenylephrine- and U46619-induced constriction of rat mesenteric arteries , indicating that the direct effect of tizoxanide might partly contribute to the protective effect of nitazoxanide against HFpEF in vivo . The present study suggests that nitazoxanide might be a potential drug for HFpEF and metabolic syndrome therapy .
Iron overload is strongly associated with heart disease . Ferroptosis is a new form of regulated cell death indicated in cardiac ischemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) injury . However , the specific molecular mechanism of myocardial injury caused by iron overload in the heart is still unclear , and the involvement of ferroptosis in iron overload-induced myocardial injury is not fully understood . In this study , we observed that ferroptosis participated in developing of iron overload and I/R-induced cardiomyopathy . Mechanistically , we discovered that Parkin inhibited iron overload-induced ferroptosis in cardiomyocytes by promoting the ubiquitination of long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase 4 ( ACSL4 ) , a crucial protein involved in ferroptosis-related lipid metabolism pathways . Additionally , we identified p53 as a transcription factor that transcriptionally suppressed Parkin expression in iron-overloaded cardiomyocytes , thereby regulating iron overload-induced ferroptosis . In animal studies , cardiac-specific Parkin knockout mice ( Myh6-CreER ( T2 ) /Parkin ( fl/fl ) ) fed a high-iron diet presented more severe myocardial damage , and the high iron levels exacerbated myocardial I/R injury . However , the ferroptosis inhibitor Fer-1 significantly suppressed iron overload-induced ferroptosis and myocardial I/R injury . Moreover , Parkin effectively protected against impaired mitochondrial function and prevented iron overload-induced mitochondrial lipid peroxidation . These findings unveil a novel regulatory pathway involving p53-Parkin-ACSL4 in heart disease by inhibiting of ferroptosis .
Homeostasis and energy and substance metabolism reprogramming shape various tumor microenvironment to sustain cancer stemness , self-plasticity and treatment resistance . Aiming at them , a lipid-based pharmaceutical loaded with CaO and glucose oxidase ( GOx ) ( LipoCaO/GOx , LCG ) has been obtained to disrupt calcium homeostasis and interfere with glycometabolism . The loaded GOx can decompose glucose into HO and gluconic acid , thus competing with anaerobic glycolysis to hamper lactic acid ( LA ) secretion . The obtained gluconic acid further deprives CaO to produce HO and release Ca ( 2+ ) , disrupting Ca ( 2+ ) homeostasis , which synergizes with GOx-mediated glycometabolism interference to deplete glutathione ( GSH ) and yield reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Systematical experiments reveal that these sequential multifaceted events unlocked by Ca ( 2+ ) homeostasis disruption and glycometabolism interference , ROS production and LA inhibition , successfully enhance cancer immunogenic deaths of breast cancer cells , hamper regulatory T cells ( Tregs ) infiltration and promote CD8 ( + ) T recruitment , which receives a considerably-inhibited outcome against breast cancer progression . Collectively , this calcium homeostasis disruption glycometabolism interference strategy effectively combines ion interference therapy with starvation therapy to eventually evoke an effective anti-tumor immune environment , which represents in the field of biomedical research .
Although cancer immunotherapy has made great strides in the clinic , it is still hindered by the tumor immunosuppressive microenvironment ( TIME ) . The stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) pathway which can modulate TIME effectively has emerged as a promising therapeutic recently . However , the delivery of most STING agonists , specifically cyclic dinucleotides ( CDNs ) , is performed intratumorally due to their insufficient pharmacological properties , such as weak permeability across cell membranes and vulnerability to nuclease degradation . To expand the clinical applicability of CDNs , a novel pH-sensitive polycationic polymer-modified lipid nanoparticle ( LNP-B ) system was developed for intravenous delivery of CDNs . LNP-B significantly extended the circulation of CDNs and enhanced the accumulation of CDNs within the tumor , spleen , and tumor-draining lymph nodes compared with free CDNs thereby triggering the STING pathway of dendritic cells and repolarizing pro-tumor macrophages . These events subsequently gave rise to potent anti-tumor immune reactions and substantial inhibition of tumors in CT26 colon cancer-bearing mouse models . In addition , due to the acid-sensitive property of the polycationic polymer , the delivery system of LNP-B was more biocompatible and safer compared with lipid nanoparticles formulated with an indissociable cationic DOTAP ( LNP-D ) . These findings suggest that LNP-B has great potential in the intravenous delivery of CDNs for tumor immunotherapy .
BACKGROUND : Periodontitis ( PD ) is a highly prevalent inflammatory disease associated with complex microbial infection in the subgingival cavity . We have previously shown that polybacterial periodontal infection led to aortic atherosclerosis and lipid profile modulation ; however , the underlying mechanism ( s ) has not been yet demonstrated . METHODS : Primary human aortic endothelial cells ( pHAECs ) were infected periodically for 48 hours either with P . gingivalis ( monobacterial infection ) or polybacterial periodontal pathogens , P . gingivalis ( Pg ) , T . forsythia ( Tf ) , T . denticola ( Td ) , and F . nucleatum ( Fn ) , using HoxBan coculture technique . Cell viability was assessed using MTT assay . Nitric oxide synthesis was measured in the form of total nitrite released into the media after incubation period . Inflammatory and oxidative gene expression were evaluated in the cell lysate using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR ) at each time point ( 12-48h ) . Statistical analysis was performed using two-way ANOVA . RESULTS : pHAEC cell viability was significantly ( p<05 ) reduced in both mono and poly-bacterial infection when compared with non-infected cells in a time dependent manner . Nitrite levels in the media were significantly impaired in both infection groups . mRNA expression for cytokines ( TLR-4 , IL-6 , and TNF-alpha , ) and inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) were significantly ( p<05 ) elevated in both experimental groups . In contrast , endothelial ( e ) NOS , tetrahydrobiopterin ( BH ) synthesis , GCH -1 , Nrf2 , and Nqo 1 were significantly ( p<05 ) reduced in both experimental groups . Finally , polybacterial infection group showed greater changes in cell viability , nitrite levels , cytokines , eNOS/BH/Nrf2 expression in a time dependent manner . CONCLUSIONS : Our study highlights the adverse effects of in vitro PD infection in NO mediated vascular endothelial cell function . FAU - Sampath , Chethan
BACKGROUND : Mastitis is an inflammatory condition of the mammary gland , commonly observed in lactating and non-puerperal women , posing significant health and economic challenges . Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) , a component of the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria , is a major inducer of mastitis . Ammonia , a key molecule in nitrogen metabolism , has been implicated in inflammatory pathways , yet its specific role in mastitis remains unclear . This study aims to investigate the mechanism by which ammonia influences the development of mastitis , particularly its effects on T cell activity and inflammatory factor expression . METHODS : qRT-PCR and ELISA were performed to measure the levels of IL-6 , TNF , and IL-1beta in the breast tissue of mice with LPS-induced mastitis , with or without ammonia treatment . HE staining was used to evaluate the degree of inflammation in the mammary tissue . FACS analysis was employed to assess the percentage , viability , and proliferation of immune cells in the breast tissue . CRISPR-Cas9 technology was used to knockout the SLC4A11 gene in T cells . RESULTS : Ammonia treatment significantly alleviated LPS-induced mastitis by reducing inflammation and inflammatory factor levels . It also decreased the percentage of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells , inhibited T cell viability and proliferation , and reduced pro-inflammatory cytokine expression ( TNF and IFN-gamma ) . Knockdown of the ammonia transporter Slc4a11 in T cells exacerbated mastitis , suggesting that Slc4a11 regulates T cell activity and inflammation during the progression of mastitis . CONCLUSION : In summary , these findings highlight the critical role of ammonia and its transporter Slc4a11 in LPS-induced mastitis , providing potential therapeutic targets for future interventions .
Laryngeal squamous cell carcinoma ( LSCC ) is a prevalent malignancy with high mortality and recurrence rates , necessitating novel therapeutic strategies . Recent research highlights the pivotal role of metabolic reprogramming and immune microenvironment alterations in LSCC pathogenesis , providing promising avenues for targeted therapy . This review summarizes the metabolic characteristics of LSCC , including glycolysis , lipid metabolism , and amino acid biosynthesis , and their implications for tumor progression and therapeutic resistance . Additionally , this review further describes the tumor microenvironment ' s immunosuppressive landscape , including immune checkpoint regulation , tumor-associated macrophages , and T-cell dysfunction . The integration of metabolic and immune-targeted strategies represents a promising frontier in LSCC treatment , warranting further investigation .
Pediatric solid tumors represent a significant subset of childhood cancers , accounting for approximately 60% of new diagnoses . Despite advancements in therapeutic strategies , survival rates remain markedly disparate between high-income and resource-limited settings , underscoring the urgent need for novel and effective treatments . Lipid metabolic reprogramming is a fundamental hallmark of cancer , driving tumor progression , therapeutic resistance , and immune evasion through enhanced fatty acid uptake , increased de novo lipid synthesis , and activated fatty acid beta-oxidation ( FAO ) . Ubiquitination , a dynamic post-translational modification mediated by the ubiquitin-proteasome system ( UPS ) , plays a crucial role in regulating lipid metabolism by modulating the stability and activity of key metabolic enzymes and transporters involved in cholesterol and fatty acid pathways . This review comprehensively examines the complex interplay between ubiquitination and lipid metabolic reprogramming in pediatric solid tumors . It delineates the mechanisms by which ubiquitination influences cholesterol biosynthesis , uptake , efflux , and fatty acid synthesis and oxidation , thereby facilitating tumor growth and survival . Furthermore , the review identifies potential UPS-mediated therapeutic targets and explores the feasibility of integrating ubiquitination-based strategies with existing treatments . By targeting the UPS to disrupt lipid metabolism pathways , novel therapeutic avenues may emerge to enhance treatment efficacy and overcome resistance in pediatric oncology . This synthesis of current knowledge aims to provide a foundation for the development of innovative , precision medicine approaches to improve clinical outcomes for children afflicted with solid tumors .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide , with limited treatment options for advanced stages . Metabolic reprogramming is a hallmark of cancer , enabling tumor cells to adapt to the harsh tumor microenvironment ( TME ) and evade immune surveillance . This review involves the role of metabolic reprogramming in HCC , focusing on the dysregulation of glucose , lipid , and amino acid metabolism , and its impact on immune evasion . Key metabolic pathways , such as the Warburg effect , fatty acid synthesis , and glutaminolysis , are discussed , along with their influence on tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and immune cell function . Targeting these metabolic alterations presents a promising therapeutic approach to enhance immunotherapy efficacy and improve HCC patient outcomes .
Diabetes mellitus is a persistent and chronic metabolic disease characterized by high blood glucose levels . The aim of this work was to evaluate the antihyperglycemic and antioxidative stress effects of Erythrophyllum africanum trunk bark powder fractions in diabetes-induced rats . 30 male rats subdivided into 6 groups of five rats each received daily a sweetened hypercaloric diet supplemented with sucrose ( 4 g/kg bw ) , except for the normal control , which received a normal diet . Normal and diabetic controls subsequently received distilled water ( 10 mL/kg bw per os ) , the positive control received metformin ( 20 mg/kg bw per os ) and the test rats received powder fractions ( </= 50 mum </= 50-120 mum ) or unsieved powder of E . africanum ( 300 mg/kg bw per os ) for 7 weeks . Dexamethasone ( 2 mg/kg ) was administered intraperitoneally once a week from the third week , except for the normal control , which received saline . Fasting blood glucose , lipid profile , and biochemical parameters of oxidative stress were assessed during and at the end of treatment . Blood glucose levels of the animals at the 7th week were 92 +/- 03 , 52 +/- 08 , 78 +/- 04 , 77 +/- 03 , 13 +/- 03 , and 40 +/- 01 g/L in the normal control , diabetic control , metformin-treated animals , </= 50 mum fraction , 50-120 mum fraction , and unsieved powder , respectively . Powder fraction </= 50 mum significantly improved ( p < 01 ) the lipid profile ( decrease in triglyceride and LDL cholesterol levels , an increase in HDL cholesterol levels ) by reducing the atherogenic index . E . africanum has antihyperglycemic and antioxidative stress effects and would be less toxic to the liver and kidneys . The fine powder ( </= 50 mum ) of E . africanum could be used as a food additive to prevent the occurrence of diabetes in vulnerable patients .
Iron-based nanozymes are an emerging class of nanomaterials demonstrating significant potential in tumor therapy by inducing ferroptosis-a regulated form of cell death marked by iron-mediated lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) . These nanozymes exhibit unique enzymatic activities , including peroxidase , oxidase , and glutathione oxidase-like functions , enabling them to generate reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and disrupt tumor microenvironment homeostasis . Leveraging Fenton chemistry , iron-based nanozymes amplify oxidative stress within tumor cells , thereby overcoming therapeutic challenges such as drug resistance and nonspecific toxicity . Despite significant advancements , the precise mechanisms by which iron-based nanozymes influence ferroptosis and their therapeutic efficacy remain underexplored . This review systematically categorizes these iron-based nanozymes , including iron oxides , single-atom enzymes , and metal-organic frameworks . We further elucidate their mechanisms in enhancing ferroptosis , focusing on their structural attributes , ROS generation pathways , and their enzymatic activities . Additionally , we summarized their biochemical applications alongside challenges in biosafety , nanozyme specificity , and advanced design and analysis approaches essential for maximizing their therapeutic efficacy . FAU - Deng , Chi
INTRODUCTION : Targeted cancer therapy has significantly transformed the field of oncology by improving treatment precision and reducing the occurrence of unintended side effects . Lipid-based nanocarriers have become a viable platform for delivering chemothera-peutic drugs due to their biocompatibility , flexibility , and ability to be functionalised . AIM AND OBJECTIVES : The objective of this research is to investigate the present tactics and future prospects of lipid-based nanocarriers in the field of targeted cancer treatment . The goals include the examination of recent progress in the development of lipid nanocarriers , evaluating their effectiveness in clinical uses , and pinpointing opportunities for enhancement and novelty . MATERIAL AND METHOD : An extensive literature analysis was performed , including examining current research on the use of lipid-based nanocarriers in cancer treatment . An analysis was conducted on data pertaining to nanocarrier formulations , targeting mechanisms , treatment results , and clinical trials in order to detect trends and new technologies . RESULTS : Recent progress in lipid-based nanocarriers , including liposomes , solid lipid nano-particles , and nanoemulsions , has shown enhanced drug delivery and decreased toxicity . Targeting methods , such as the utilisation of ligand-receptor interactions and stimuli-responsive systems , have significantly improved the precision and effectiveness of therapeu-tics . CONCLUSION : Lipid-based nanocarriers have great potential for advancing targeted cancer treatment in the future . Although there has been significant progress , it is essential to con-tinue developing formulation processes and targeting tactics to overcome existing con-straints and improve clinical results . Ongoing cooperation across several fields of study will be crucial in effectively applying these nanotechnologies from the laboratory to practical use in healthcare .
AIMS : This study aimed to explore the association between serum osteocalcin and cardiometabolic risk factors in latent autoimmune diabetes in adults ( LADA ) . BACKGROUND : Patients with LADA tend to experience poorer glycaemic control , placing them at a higher risk of cardiovascular disease . OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to explore the relationship between osteocalcin levels and cardiometabolic risk factors , such as HbA1c , lipids , insulin resistance and obesity , in patients with LADA . METHOD : This retrospective study included 110 patients suffering from LADA with high glutamic acid decarboxylase ( GAD ) levels ( >/=180 IU/ml ) and 286 with low GAD levels ( <180 IU/ml ) between January 2018 and December All participants were aged >/=30 years . Blood samples , collected after 8 hours of fasting , were analysed for osteocalcin and other biomarkers using chemiluminescence immunoassay . Logistic regression analysis assessed the relationship between osteocalcin and cardiometabolic risk factors . RESULTS : The LADA ( high ) group had a lower body mass index ( 5 vs 4 kg/m , p = 014 ) and a lower proportion of obesity ( 1% vs 2% , p = 001 ) compared with the LADA ( low ) group . Participants in the LADA ( high ) group were slightly older ( 7 vs 3 years , p = 641 ) . Fasting blood glucose was higher ( 9 vs 4 mmol/l , p = 068 ) , and C-peptide was lower ( 0 vs 8 ng/ml , p = 024 ) . Osteocalcin levels were significantly lower in the LADA ( high ) group ( 19 vs 96 ng/ml , p = 004 ) . Subgroup analyses revealed significant correlations , such as those between osteocalcin and HbA1c in the LADA ( low ) group and an inverse relationship with triglyceride in men from the LADA ( high ) group . Logistic regression analysis indicated that lower osteocalcin levels were significantly associated with a higher risk of poor glycaemic control and increased obesity . CONCLUSION : Lower osteocalcin levels in patients with LADA with high GAD are associated with worse cardiometabolic parameters and increased cardiovascular risk . Osteocalcin may be a potential marker for assessing cardiometabolic risk in patients with LADA .
BACKGROUND : Hesperidin is a flavonoid found in citrus fruits , particularly in the peel and pulp of oranges and lemons . By encapsulating drugs or bioactive compounds within NPs , it ' s possible to enhance their stability , solubility , and bioavailability . The current investigation aims to optimize hesperidin nanoparticles ( Hes-NPs ) and evaluate their hepatoprotective and antioxidant effects in paracetamol-intoxicated mice . METHODS : The characteristics of Hes-NPs were elucidated , including morphology , particle size , zeta potential , UV-vis , entrapment efficiency , and FT-IR spectra . Hes-NPs were also tested for their hepatoprotective and antioxidant effects in paracetamol-treated mice . Safety and toxicity assessments are crucial before pharmacological studies . In addition , liver enzymes , oxidative stress , inflammatory biomarkers , and gene expression of CYP2E1 and CYP3A11 were measured . Furthermore , the study examined the molecular docking of hesperidin with the CYP2E1 and CYP3A11 proteins . RESULTS : The synthesized Hes-NPs were uniform , spherically shaped , and well dispersed , with no aggregation noted , with a size range of 12 +/- 13 nm . The measured zeta potential value of Hes-NPs was -57 +/- 8 mV with a polydispersity index ( PDI ) of Also , the UV spectra of hesperidin are at 220 and 279 nm , and Hes-NPs have strong absorption at 225 and 280 nm . Also , the LD50 of Hes-NPs was 5 mg/kg b . w . Moreover , administering paracetamol-intoxicated mice with Hes-NPs resulted in improved plasma lipid profile &amp ; #40 ; TC , TG , and HDL-C&amp ; #41 ; and liver enzymes ( ALT , AST , ALP , and LDH ) as well as oxidative stress ( GSH , SOD , CAT , Pr-SHs , and MDA ) and inflammatory ( TNF-alpha ) biomarker levels , as well as attenuated CYP2E1 , and CYP3A11 gene expression . In-silicon results proved that hesperidin showed a stronger estimated binding affinity with a G of -6 and -5 kcal/mol . towards CYP2E1 , and CYP3A11 activity , respectively . Our results showed that hesperidin forms hydrogen bonds with amino acid residues through the 9 and 12 bonds of CYP2E1 and CYP3A11 , respectively . CONCLUSION : Hes-NPs could offer several advantages . It can be designed to specifically target liver cells , minimizing off-target effects , enhancing bioavailability , and shielding hesperidin from degradation in the body . The current results suggest that Hes-NPs may enhance antioxidant defenses and protect against oxidative stress in paracetamol-intoxicated mice .
BACKGROUND : Eriobotrya japonica Lindl , also known as loquat , is a subtropical fruit tree widely used in traditional Chinese medicine for thousands of years to treat many diseases such as asthma and chronic cough . Traditional healers also use it for weight reduction . In our present study , we validated the impact of E . japonica leaf extract on body weight , glycemic control , and lipid profile . METHODS : The anti-obesity , anti-diabetic , and antihyperlipidemic effects of E . japonica leaf extract were screened in high-fat diet-fed rats . After treatment with different E . japonica leaf extract concentrations , body weight , blood glucose levels , HBA1c , and lipid profile were determined . RESULTS : The high-fat diet group treated with Loquat leaf extract >= 200 mg/ml/kg showed significant weight loss and a beneficial lipid marker profile . However , the glycemic markers were not significantly different . CONCLUSION : The findings demonstrate that E . japonica leaf extract at doses of >/=200 mg/kg significantly reduces body weight and improves lipid markers in HFD-fed rats . However , glycemic markers such as blood glucose and HbA1c were not significantly affected . These results highlight the potential of E . japonica as a natural weight loss and lipid control aid , warranting further investigation into its mechanisms and clinical applicability .
Nine Tn-based cancer vaccines were designed and synthesized using Mincle agonists as a carrier to elucidate the structure-immunogenicity relationships of Mincle-dependent vaccines . The Immunological evaluation showed that the immune response levels were significantly influenced by the acyl chains of trehalose , coupling site of antigen and carriers , antigen copy number , and coupling mode of acyl chains and trehalose . Notably , installing the antigen onto the lipid chains of the carrier could also effectively improve the immunogenicity . Among them , conjugate 9 showed the highest activity . In the presence of EcMPLA ( TLR4 agonist ) and aluminum hydroxide ( Al ) , the immunological activity of conjugate 9 could further be improved and significantly inhibit tumor growth , prolonging the survival time of tumor-challenged mice . Survived mice also successfully rejected subsequent tumor attacks without any additional treatment . This work provides guidance for developing and applying self-adjuvanted cancer vaccines using Mincle agonists as both the carrier and " build-in " adjuvant . FAU - Li , Xiaohui
Chondrocytes store lipids in the form of lipid droplets ( LDs ) and maintain cartilage lipid metabolic homeostasis by consuming or regenerating LDs . This modulation is largely mediated by a series of biochemical factors . Fibroblast growth factor 8 ( FGF8 ) is one of the most important factors involved in the proliferation , differentiation , and migration of chondrocytes and has attracted increasing attention in the physiology and pathology of cartilage . However , the effect of FGF8 on LD accumulation in chondrocytes remains unclear . This study aims to elucidate the role of FGF8 in LDs and explore the underlying biomechanism involved . The results reveal that FGF8 promotes LD accumulation in chondrocytes by upregulating perilipin1 ( Plin1 ) expression . FGF8 activates the cytoplasmic p-p38 signaling pathway via fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 ( FGFR1 ) to increase LD accumulation in chondrocytes . Subsequent experiments with siRNAs and specific inhibitors further confirm the importance of the FGFR1/p38 axis for LD accumulation in chondrocytes exposed to FGF The results increase our understanding of the role of FGF8 in the lipid metabolic homeostasis of chondrocytes and provide insights into the physiology and pathology of cartilage . FAU - Huang , Minglei
Emulsion gels can be potentially used to structure lipids when developing novel plant-based food products . Current emulsion gels comprising a single polymeric network in the continuous phase are limited in their ability to deliver the desired textural and functional properties . In biomedical engineering , double-network hydrogels are extensively used . Here , the concept was applied to create double-network emulsion gels with enhanced stability , texture , and encapsulation of bioactive ingredients to closely mimic animal-based food . The existence of a second network is crucial to tuning the thermal characteristics for cooking stability and controlled release for functional food applications . The textural and thermal characteristics in dual gel network systems could be modulated by varying the concentration of individual biopolymers and/or gelators . Albeit the improvement compared to a single gel system , there are still challenges in creating double-network emulsion gel systems from food proteins and polysaccharides , mainly due to the differences in osmotic pressure of the hydrophilic continuous polysaccharide gel network and the hydrophobic dispersed oil phase . This led to apparent phase separations in these mixed protein-polysaccharide systems that have negative implications on the gel strength of these gels . This review provides a summary of the current understanding of double-network emulsion gels in terms of formation , network interaction , and implications on their properties relevant to food processing and product applications . The double-network emulsion gels could be a better option for structuring lipids than single-network emulsion gels and oleogels in plant-based food products .
Mendelian randomization ( MR ) method utilizes genetic variants as instrumental variables to infer the causal effect of an exposure on an outcome . However , the impact of rare variants on traits is often neglected , and traditional MR assumptions can be violated by correlated horizontal pleiotropy ( CHP ) and uncorrelated horizontal pleiotropy ( UHP ) . To address these issues , we propose a multivariable MR approach , an extension of the standard MR framework : MVMR incorporating Rare variants Accounting for multiple Risk factors and shared horizontal plEiotropy ( RARE ) . In the simulation studies , we demonstrate that RARE effectively detects the causal effects of exposures on outcome with accounting for the impact of rare variants on causal inference . Additionally , we apply RARE to study the effects of high density lipoprotein and low density lipoprotein on type 2 diabetes and coronary atherosclerosis , respectively , thereby illustrating its robustness and effectiveness in real data analysis .
AIMS : The impact of antidiabetic and lipid-lowering medications on fibrosis in patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) is poorly understood . We evaluated associations between the use of these medications and serum liver fibrosis biomarkers , and whether they vary by genetic factors . MATERIALS AND METHODS : This cross-sectional study used baseline medication and fibrosis biomarker ( aspartate aminotransferase-to-platelet ratio index [APRI] , Enhanced Liver Fibrosis [ELF] , Fibrosis-4 Index ( FIB-4 ) and FibroSure/FibroTest ) data from two phase 3 trials ( N = 1649 ) of MASH with bridging fibrosis ( NCT03053050 , N = 785 ) or compensated cirrhosis ( NCT03053063 , N = 864 ) . A weighted polygenic risk score ( wPRS ) for MASH was derived for participants of European ancestry ( N = 742 ) using six genetic variants . Least-squares means and 95% confidence interval ( CIs ) were derived using multivariable linear regression . RESULTS : Combined use of antidiabetic and lipid-lowering medications was associated with statistically significantly lower adjusted mean ELF ( -34 [95% CI : -47 , -20] or - 2% ) , FIB-4 ( -53 [95% CI : -74 , -32] or - 0% ) , APRI ( -27 [95% CI : -37 , -18] or - 1% ) and FibroSure/FibroTest scores ( -08 [95% CI : -11 , -06] or - 7% ) compared with nonuse . Among participants of European ancestry , the inverse association for FIB-4 ( interaction p = 01 ) or APRI ( interaction p = 004 ) was stronger in participants with high ( >median ) versus low ( </=median ) wPRS ; no significant interactions were observed for ELF or FibroSure/FibroTest . CONCLUSIONS : Antidiabetic and lipid-lowering medication use was associated with lower serum liver fibrosis biomarkers . Among participants with European ancestry , associations between combined use of these medications and lower FIB-4 or APRI scores were stronger in those at high genetic risk of MASH . Longitudinal studies are warranted to extend upon these potentially clinically important findings .
Symbiotic germination in orchids is a complex biological process driven by a unique dependence on mycorrhizal fungi . It is generally assumed that , due to a lack of endosperm , orchids fully rely on fungi for carbon sources . However , orchid seed embryos store substantial nutrient reserves , but the metabolic functions of these reserves and their roles in establishing symbiosis during germination remain unclear . Here , we used time-series transcriptomics and ultrastructural morphological analyses to investigate the early stages of symbiotic germination in Gymnadenia conopsea , a terrestrial orchid widely distributed across Eurasia . We identify three distinct phases during early seed germination ( seed imbibition , fungal invasion and symbiotic establishment ) that correspond with pronounced changes in gene expression and energy metabolism . During imbibition , lipid metabolism was already active , leading the oleosomes to fuse into large lipid vacuoles , whereas carbohydrate metabolism became dominant after fungal invasion , with lipid droplets appearing within fungal hyphae . Based on this transcriptomic and morphological evidence , we propose a potential model in which lipid vacuoles facilitate lipid transfer from the seeds to the fungi during the initial invasion , after which the fungi supply carbohydrates to the seeds for further development .
OBJECTIVE : To observe the efficacy of " Biaoben acupoint compatibility " moxibustion for abdominal obesity and its effect on blood lipid , lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) and cardiometabolic index ( CMI ) . METHODS : A total of 150 patients with abdominal obesity were randomly divided into an observation group ( 75 cases , 5 cases dropped out ) and a control group ( 75 cases , 6 cases dropped out ) . The control group received lifestyle guidance . The observation group received " Biaoben acupoint compatibility " moxibustion at Zhongwan ( CV12 ) , Guanyuan ( CV4 ) and bilateral Tianshu ( ST25 ) , Zusanli ( ST36 ) on the basis of the control group , 20 min each time , once every other day , 3 times a week for 8 weeks . Before and after treatment , the waist circumference , hip circumference , weight , body mass index ( BMI ) were observed , the levels of total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) were measured , and the LAP and CMI were calculated in the two groups . RESULTS : After treatment , the waist circumference , weight and BMI were decreased compared with those before treatment in both groups ( P<05 ) , the changes of the above indexes in the observation group were larger than those in the control group ( P<05 ) . After treatment , the hip circumference , TC level , TG level , LAP and CMI in the observation group were decreased compared with those before treatment ( P<05 ) , the HDL-C level was increased compared with that before treatment ( P<05 ) the changes of the TC level , TG level , LAP , CMI and HDL-C level in the observation group were larger than those in the control group ( P<05 ) . CONCLUSION : " Biaoben acupoint compatibility " moxibustion can reduce the degree of obesity in patients with abdominal obesity , and improve blood lipid and reduce lipid accumulation . FAU - Fu , Chengwei
BACKGROUND Acute pancreatitis ( AP ) occurs when pancreatic enzymes activate within the pancreas , causing damage . In the USA , 210 000 patients are hospitalized annually due to AP . Although statin-induced pancreatitis is rare and often misdiagnosed , it is crucial to investigate , as avoiding the causative medication can prevent attacks . There is conflicting evidence , and further research is needed to determine if statins increase the risk of AP . CASE REPORT In this report , we detail the case of a 48-year-old man with a history of dyslipidemia , for which he was prescribed atorvastatin 40 mg/day as a lipid-lowering agent . He developed acute pancreatitis after using atorvastatin . He initially presented to the emergency room with worsening epigastric pain . Elevated levels of lipase , amylase , and alanine aminotransferases in laboratory tests indicated acute pancreatitis . Given these findings , supportive care was promptly initiated , and atorvastatin , identified as the potential trigger , was discontinued . Notably , the patient had no history of alcohol or tobacco use , and extensive diagnostic efforts ruled out other common causes of acute pancreatitis . The absence of other risk factors reinforced the likelihood that atorvastatin was responsible for his condition , as noted in Table This case underscores the importance of careful monitoring of symptoms and laboratory findings in patients treated with statin medications , particularly when prescribed for dyslipidemia . CONCLUSIONS Documenting such unusual cases could help highlight the potential risks of acute pancreatitis associated with statin use . FAU - Alshammari , Fahad
Valproate is an antiseizure drug required by many epileptic patients to manage their symptoms . During pregnancy , its use has been shown to increase the risk of neurobehavioral deficits in the offspring . The present study used a rat model of absence epilepsy , Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rat from Strasbourg ( GAERS ) , to investigate the effects of gestational valproate exposure on early postnatal brain cortex and lateral choroid plexus transcriptomes . Females were provided with either a control diet or a valproate-laced diet ( 20 g/kg ) from 2 weeks prior to mating and throughout gestation . At parturition , all dams received a control diet . Pups at Postnatal Day 5 were used for RNA sequencing . Differential expression analyses were conducted between transcriptomes from valproate-exposed and control animals . In the choroid plexus , 5694 genes significantly altered their expression compared to 214 in the cortex , a difference of nearly 25 times . Dysregulation was identified in choroidal expression of ion channels and metal transporters including six members of the Slc4a family , Cacna1h and Kcne Several drug transporting ATP-binding cassette transporters and solute carriers were significantly upregulated and drug-metabolising enzymes downregulated . In the cortex , 11 genes associated with the development of the central nervous system were differentially expressed . Finally , in both tissues , foetal valproate exposure appeared to result in dysregulation of genes related to adaptive and innate immune responses . These results indicated that gestational exposure to valproate resulted in distinct and greater effects on the choroid plexus transcriptome compared to the cortex , potentially suggesting additional targets related to developmental valproate neurotoxicity .
BACKGROUND : The supramolecular structure and composition of milk fat globules in breast milk is complex . Lipid droplets in formula milk are typically smaller compared to human milk and differ in their lipid and protein composition . These droplets play an important role in gut and immune maturation , and their components possess antimicrobial and antiviral properties . Here , the influence of a concept infant formula ( IF ) containing large milk phospholipid-coated lipid droplets on the maturation of the infant microbiota , metabolome , and weight gain in the first year of life was investigated . RESULTS : Formula-fed infants were randomized to receive either a standard IF ( Control ) or a Test formula containing large milk phospholipid-coated lipid droplets ( Test ) until 17 weeks of age . A breast-fed Reference group was also investigated . At 3 months of age , several taxa identified as opportunistic pathogens ( e . g . , Enterobacter , Klebsiella , Enterococcus , Streptococcus ) were less abundant in the Test stools compared to Control , while an enrichment of the butyrate-producing Ruminococcaceae and Lachnospiraceae was observed . These findings indicate that the Test formula resulted in gut microbiota maturation trajectories more comparable to healthy breast-fed infants . This was accompanied by variation in several fecal and plasma metabolites at 3 months of age related to gut microbial metabolism including bile acids , hippurate , phenylacetylglycine , trimethylamine , and various lipids and fatty acids . At 12 months , measures of subcutaneous fat and body mass index ( BMI ) were significantly higher in infants receiving standard IF compared to those receiving breast milk . However , this weight gain and adiposity was attenuated in the Test group infants . CONCLUSIONS : The presence of large phospholipid-coated lipid droplets in formula milk positively influenced the development of the infants ' gut microbiota , their metabolomic profiles , and their body composition to more closely resemble breast-fed infants compared to standard IF . These droplets may further enhance the restriction of pathogenic bacteria seen with standard infant formula and suggest a potential impact on infant metabolic programming that may contribute to physiological development . Video Abstract .
BACKGROUND : In recent years , rising temperatures due to climate change have become significant stressors in aquatic environments , impacting disease incidence , growth , and gut microbiota in fish . Cold-water species , such as the olive flounder ( Paralichthys olivaceus ) , are particularly vulnerable to increasing water temperatures . Despite its economic importance as a species farmed in East Asia , research on temperature-dependent shifts in the gut microbiota and metabolome of olive flounder remains limited . This study investigates the effects of water temperature on the gut microbiota and metabolome of olive flounder using full-length 16 S rRNA sequencing with Oxford Nanopore Technologies and metabolomics analysis with high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) . The analysis compares individuals exposed to three water temperatures ( 18 degrees C , 22 degrees C , and 26 degrees C ) . RESULTS : Temperature significantly influenced the composition of gut microbiota , with an increase in Gammaproteobacteria abundance at higher temperatures . Potential pathogens such as Vibrio and Photobacterium increased from 22 degrees C to 26 degrees C , while Pseudomonas declined , suggesting an elevated risk of pathogen infection at 26 degrees C . Functional predictions revealed that gut bacteria regulated host metabolism , particularly carbohydrate , amino acid , and lipid pathways . Metabolomic analysis showed reduced levels of polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) and phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) -related metabolites at higher temperatures . Notably , the umami flavor-related compound aspartic acid decreased , while the bitter flavor-related compound phenylalanine increased . Correlation analysis identified significant associations between bacterial genera , such as Comamonas , Pseudomonas , Sphingomonas , and Stentotrophomonas ( positive correlation ) , and Legionella and Phaeobacter ( negative correlation ) , with shifts in PUFAs and PC metabolites . CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates that environmental temperature significantly affects the gut microbiota and muscle metabolites of olive flounder . Higher temperatures diversified gut bacterial communities and altered metabolite profiles , with reductions in PUFAs and PC-related compounds linked to specific bacterial genera . These findings highlight the potential of these bacterial genera as biomarkers or probiotics for improving aquaculture practices and environmental adaptation strategies . By establishing a strong correlation between gut microbiota and muscle metabolites , this research provides insights that could contribute to sustainable flounder farming and enhance resilience to climate change .
BACKGROUND : Abnormal lipid droplet ( LD ) dynamics in oral squamous cell carcinoma ( OSCC ) indicate lipid metabolism alterations that facilitate malignancy progression . However , the specific mechanisms by which disruptions in lipid homeostasis affect malignancy processes remain poorly understood . This study investigated the role of LD-associated protein Caveolin2 ( CAV2 ) in OSCC lipid homeostasis and progression . METHODS : The clinical relevance of CAV2 in OSCC was assessed through transcriptomics , single-cell sequencing , and functional validation in OSCC cells . CAV2 knockdown via shRNA was used to analyze its effects on growth , apoptosis , lipid homeostasis , and mitochondrial function . RNA sequencing , lipidomics , and molecular docking elucidated mechanisms of lipid metabolic disruption . Lipolysis was evaluated via glycerol release , lipidomics , and expression of related genes and proteins . Seahorse assays were used to evaluate mitochondrial dysfunction by analyzing mitochondrial respiration , while additional experiments assessed ROS levels , MMP , morphology , mass , and organelle interactions . In vivo , studies examined tumor progression in nude mice implanted with CAV2-knockdown OSCC cells . The regulatory role of PPARgamma on CAV2 was explored through bioinformatics , correlation analysis , and dual-luciferase assays . Coimmunoprecipitation assessed CAV2 and NCOR1 binding with PPARgamma , while the PPARgamma inverse agonist T0070907 was used to enhance NCOR1-mediated repression of CAV RESULTS : CAV2 was upregulated in OSCC and correlated with poor clinical outcomes . CAV2 knockdown increased apoptosis , reduced proliferation , and disrupted lipid homeostasis , elevating polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) . Regulatory networks responsible for PUFA accumulation were mapped in CAV2-knockdown OSCC cells , from upstream regulators to downstream effects . Furthermore , lipolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction were also enhanced following CAV2 silencing . In vivo , CAV2 knockdown suppressed OSCC progression . Mechanistically , PPARgamma regulated CAV2 transcription via NCOR1 , but OSCC cells disrupted this repression . The PPARgamma inverse agonist T0070907 restored NCOR1-mediated repression , synergistically enhancing the effects of CAV2 knockdown on apoptosis , lipolysis , and mitochondrial dysfunction . CONCLUSIONS : Alteration of CAV2 disrupted lipid homeostasis and inhibited OSCC progression by affecting key processes , including apoptosis , lipolysis , and mitochondrial dysfunction . The disruption was driven by the dysregulation of the PPARgamma/NCOR1 axis , highlighting the potential of targeting CAV2 and its interaction with PPARgamma as a therapeutic strategy for OSCC .
AIMS AND OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the effects of dietary intervention and the commonly used behaviour change techniques ( BCTs ) on clinical outcomes in patients with T2DM . BACKGROUND : Effective dietary management is crucial in the management of diabetes . Behavioural change strategies are important in improving dietary adherence , but limited understanding of available evidence currently exists . DESIGN : A systematic review and meta analysis using the PRISMA checklist were used to synthesise the evidence . METHODS : Systematic review of five databases was completed using selected key terms . Meta-analysis was conducted to test the effects of the dietary interventions and to identify effective BCTs . RESULTS : Nine studies were included in this research . Overall , the dietary interventions showed significant HbA1c reduction , with merits from personalised dietary interventions tailored to patient characteristics . Meanwhile , there was a sustained reduction in HbA1c after three , six , and twelve months post intervention . Moreover , significant improvements in weight and lipid profile were observed by the sixth month . Regarding employed BCTs , ' Credible Source ' and ' Conserving Mental Resources ' were deemed to be both clinically and statistically significant in reducing HbA1c ( > 3% ) , while 14 other BCTs were identified as being associated with a clinically meaningful reduction in HbA1c ( > 3% ) . CONCLUSION : Comprehensive dietary interventions incorporating selective BCTs significantly improved HbA1c , weight , and lipid profiles in patients with T2DM . Identified BCTs and the commonly used intervention features tailored to patient characteristics were most effective in dietary behaviour interventions . RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE : It is suggested that , besides the commonly used BCTs ( e . g . , ' Goals and Planning ' and ' Feedback on Behavior ' ) , the application of ' Conserving Mental Resources ' and ensuring ' Credible Source ' should be incorporated into dietary interventions for patients with T2DM in clinical practice . PATIENT OR PUBLIC CONTRIBUTION : The is no patient or public contribution in this paper . TRIAL REGISTRATION : This study was registered at the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews . PROSPERO ID : CRD
BACKGROUND : T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( T-ALL ) is a relatively rare hematological malignancy , characterized by the uncontrolled proliferation of immature T lymphoblasts and associated with a generally unfavorable prognosis . Our previous research has demonstrated that decreased mitochondrial activity is associated with the aggressiveness of T-ALL tumors . However , the mechanisms underlying this phenomenon and its contribution to treatment resistance remain largely elusive . METHODS : We have built up the largest known T-ALL tumor bank , with a median follow-up of 32 months , including our transcriptomic data from 79 newly sequenced tumors that adds to the 54 publicly accessible samples . Computational analyses and a series of functional assays were performed to investigate the molecular links between altered mitochondrial activity and drug resistance . RESULTS : The transcriptomic analysis revealed that down-regulation of mitochondrial activity is a potent driver of ABCB1 activation , a gene strongly associated with multidrug resistance . In tumors with low mitochondrial activity , the impaired fatty acids beta-oxidation leads to intracellular lipid accumulation , which is directly involved in ABCB1 activation . Indeed , our data show that lipid neo-synthesis and accumulation promotes the activation of lipogenic transcription factors , liver X receptors ( LXRs ) , which act as drivers of ABCB1 expression . Tumor data analyses confirmed that high ABCB1 expression in tumour samples is indeed associated with reduced mitochondrial gene expression , lipid droplet enrichment , increased tumour aggressiveness , and significantly shorter patient survival . CONCLUSIONS : Our study demonstrates that reduced mitochondrial activity drives multidrug resistance in adult T-ALL via lipid-mediated activation of ABCB These findings enhance our understanding of the biology of aggressive T-ALL and provide insight into mechanisms of resistance to conventional chemotherapy . Consequently , we propose that targeting de novo lipogenesis and restricting dietary fats , such as caprylic acid , may help overcome treatment resistance in patients with T-ALL exhibiting low mitochondrial activity . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The clinical trial was registered under the identifiers ChiCTR-ONRC-14004968 and ChiCTR2000031553 at ClinicalTrials . gov .
BACKGROUND : While the phenotypic link between body mass index ( BMI ) and some female reproductive disorders is well established , the genetic architecture and causal relationships have not been systematically studied . We aimed to create an atlas of the shared genetic associations of BMI and 16 female reproductive disorders and to identify their common risk loci , biological pathways , and potential mechanisms . METHODS : We assessed the genetic correlations between BMI and 16 reproductive disorders using summary data from large-scale genome-wide association studies . Cross-trait pleiotropic analysis identified shared loci and genes , while functional annotation and tissue-specific analysis revealed relevant biological pathways and tissues . Multi-trait colocalization analysis examined the role of hormones and metabolites in these traits . Additionally , bidirectional Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis was employed to assess causal relationships between BMI and reproductive outcomes . We also conducted summary data-based MR ( SMR ) analysis to identify potential drug targets . RESULTS : Our results revealed a significant genetic correlation between BMI and eight female reproductive diseases . Furthermore , we identified 50 shared pleiotropic loci between BMI and these traits , with 21 of them showing significant colocalization , suggesting a complex shared genetic architecture across the genome . In addition , the top biological pathways and tissues enriched with these pleiotropic loci were associated with RNA metabolism , macromolecule biosynthesis , type B pancreatic cell apoptosis , various brain regions , and the pituitary . Moreover , multi-trait colocalization indicated that insulin , lipid metabolites , glucose , glycine , and glutamine mediate shared mechanisms between BMI , gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) , and endometrial cancer . MR analysis suggested BMI may cause several reproductive diseases , with only GDM affecting BMI reversely . Finally , SMR analysis revealed EIF2S2P3 and MCM6 , which may have a causative effect on both BMI & GDM and BMI & gestational hypertension . CONCLUSION : Our results suggest a significant genetic link between BMI and eight female reproductive diseases , highlighting a shared and causal genetic basis . Reducing BMI in women may serve as an effective strategy to lower the risk of female reproductive disorders . The identified pleiotropic loci , genes , and shared pathways could provide new therapeutic targets for both obesity and reproductive diseases , along with their comorbidities . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : Resistance to organophosphate compounds is a serious concern in dealing with the control of mosquito vectors . Understanding the genetic and molecular basis of resistance is important not only to create strategies aimed at detecting and monitoring resistance in the field but also to implement efficient control measures and support the development of new insecticides . Despite the extensive literature on insecticide resistance , the molecular basis of metabolic resistance is still poorly understood . METHODS : To better understand the mechanisms of Aedes aegypti resistance to temephos , we performed high-throughput sequencing of RNA from the midgut tissue of Aedes aegypti larvae from a temephos-resistant laboratory colony , with long-term and continuous exposure to this insecticide ( RecR ) , as well as from a reference , temephos-susceptible , colony ( RecL ) . Bioinformatic analyses were then performed to assess the biological functions of differentially expressed genes , and the sequencing data were validated by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( RT-qPCR ) . RESULTS : The transcriptome analysis mapped 084 genes , of which 202 were considered upregulated in RecR , including known and new genes representing many detoxification enzyme families , such as cytochrome-P450 oxidative enzymes , glutathione-S-transferases and glucosyl transferases . Other upregulated genes were mainly involved in the cuticle , carbohydrates and lipid biosynthesis . For the downregulated profiles , we found 106 downregulated genes in the RecR colony , with molecules involved in protein synthesis , immunity and apoptosis process . Furthermore , we observed an enrichment of KEGG metabolic pathways related to resistance mechanisms . The results found in RT-qPCR confirm the findings of the transcriptome data . CONCLUSIONS : In this study , we investigated transcriptome-level changes maintained in a temephos-resistant Ae . aegypti colony under continuous and prolonged selection pressure . Our results indicate that metabolic resistance might involve a larger and more significant number of detoxification enzymes , with different functional roles , than previously shown with other mechanisms , also contributing to the resistance phenotype in the Ae . aegypti RecR colony .
BACKGROUND : Oxytosis/ferroptosis is a form of non-apoptotic regulated cell death characterized by specific changes in the redox balance that lead to lethal lipid peroxidation . It has been hypothesized recently that aging predisposes the brain to the activation of oxytosis/ferroptosis in Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , and consequently that inhibition of oxytosis/ferroptosis offers a path to develop a new class of therapeutics for the disease . The goal of the present study was to investigate the occurrence of oxytosis/ferroptosis in the AD brain by examining transcriptomic signatures of oxytosis/ferroptosis in cellular and animal models of AD as well as in human AD brain samples . RESULTS : Since oxytosis/ferroptosis has been poorly defined at the RNA level , the publicly available datasets are limited . To address this limitation , we developed TrioSig , a gene signature generated from transcriptomic data of human microglia , astrocytes , and neurons treated with inducers of oxytosis/ferroptosis . It is shown that the different signatures of oxytosis/ferroptosis are enriched to varying extents in the brains of AD mice and human AD patients . The TrioSig signature was the most frequently found enriched , and bioinformatic analysis of its composition identified genes involved in the integrated stress response ( ISR ) . It was confirmed in nerve cell culture that oxytosis/ferroptosis induces the ISR via phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 alpha ( eIF2alpha ) and activating transcription factor 4 ( ATF4 ) signaling . CONCLUSIONS : Our data support the involvement of oxytosis/ferroptosis in AD . The implications of the ISR for the progression and prevention of AD are discussed .
BACKGROUND : Recent basic biological research found that obesity accelerates biological aging and increases cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk . However , there is still a lack of real-world population evidence . This study aimed to explore the potential mediation roles of biological age acceleration in the associations between different dimensions of obesity characterization and incident CVD . METHODS : This international multi-cohort study included participants aged over 45 years with 3 waves longitudinal data from China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) . China Health and Nutrition Survey ( CHNS ) was used to develop Klemera-Doubal method-biological age ( KDM-BA ) , and the validation analysis was performed in UK Biobank ( UKB ) and Hongguang Elderly Health Examination Cohort ( HEHEC ) . Obesity indices including body mass index ( BMI ) , waist circumference ( WC ) , waist height ratio ( WtHR ) , body roundness index ( BRI ) for body shape ; Chinese visceral adiposity index ( CVAI ) , lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) for visceral fat accumulation ; triglyceride-glucose index ( TyG ) and its derivatives ( TyG-BMI , TyG-WC , TyG-WtHR ) for metabolic function were used to measure obesity across different dimensions . Biological age acceleration was evaluated by the classic KDM-BA acceleration ( KDM-BAacc ) . Causal mediation analyses assessed the role of biological age acceleration in mediating obesity and incident CVD . RESULTS : In CHARLS , the median follow-up period was 00 years , with a baseline age of 58 ( 52 , 65 ) years . Obesity , KDM-BAacc , and CVD were all significantly associated with each other . For each 1-year increase in KDM-BAacc , the risk of incident stroke , heart disease and CVD increased by 68% ( OR 68 , 95% CI 35-09 ) , 35% ( OR 35 , 95% CI 15-59 ) , and 44% ( OR 44 , 95% CI 25-65 ) , respectively . KDM-BAacc mediated the associations between BMI , WC , WtHR , BRI , CVAI , LAP , TyG-BMI , TyG-WC , TyG-WtHR , with CVD , with the mediation proportions ranging from 03 to 46% . However , the mediating effect was significant mostly in middle-aged individuals aged 45-65 years . Furthermore , sex differences existed in the mediation mechanisms . Biological age acceleration strongly mediated body shape indices and incident CVD in males , whereas in females , it predominantly mediated visceral fat accumulation and metabolic function dimensions with incident CVD . Similar main results were found in UKB and HEHEC . CONCLUSIONS : Biological age acceleration partially mediates the relationship between obesity and incident CVD . This temporal evidence firstly validated the mediation pathway based on international cohorts , emphasizing the importance of addressing biological aging processes in population aged 45-65 years while providing sex-specific obesity intervention strategies to prevent CVD .
BACKGROUND : Existing evidence suggests that elevated 1-hour post-load plasma glucose ( 1-h PG >/= 6 mmol/L ) during an oral glucose tolerance test ( OGTT ) is associated with atherogenic lipid parameters which are linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) . However , it remains unclear whether normal glucose tolerance ( NGT ) individuals with elevated 1-h PG ( NGT-1hPG-high ) should still be considered low-risk . Therefore , this study aims to demonstrate comprehensive lipid characteristics in individuals with different glycemic status stratified by 1-h PG , with a particular focus on those with NGT-1hPG-high . METHODS : This cross-sectional study included individuals aged 25-55 years with high-risk of diabetes from the Daqing Diabetes Prevention Study II ( Daqing DPS-II ) . Individuals were categorized into different glycemic status based on the World Health Organization ' s 1999 criteria and the International Diabetes Federation ' s 2024 position statement on 1-h PG . Traditional ( TC , TG , HDL-C , LDL-C ) and non-traditional lipid parameters [ApoA-1 , ApoB , sdLDL-C , Lp ( a ) , non-HDL-C , remnant cholesterol ( RC ) , ApoB/ApoA-1 , LDL-C/ApoB] were measured . Dyslipidemia was defined according to the 2023 Chinese Guidelines for Lipid Management . The China-PAR equation was used to estimate 10-year CVD risk . Spearman ' s correlation coefficients were calculated to evaluate the correlation between lipid parameters and 10-year CVD risk . Logistic and multiple linear regression models were performed to assess the association between 1-h PG and dyslipidemia as well as lipid parameters adjusting for covariates . RESULTS : Among 2 469 individuals , 7% had NGT with normal 1-h PG ( NGT-1hPG-normal ) , 9% had NGT-1hPG-high , 6% had prediabetes with normal 1-h PG ( PDM-1hPG-normal ) , 2% had prediabetes with elevated 1-h PG ( PDM-1hPG-high ) , and 6% had newly diagnosed diabetes . The prevalence of dyslipidemia did not significantly differ between NGT-1hPG-high and PDM-1hPG-high ( OR = 13 , 95%CI : 88-44 , P > 05 ) . Higher 1-h PG levels were consistently associated with an atherogenic lipid profile , characterized by increased TC , TG , LDL-C , ApoB , sdLDL-C , non-HDL-C , RC and ApoB/ApoA-1 , along with decreased ApoA-1 , HDL-C and LDL-C/ApoB ( all P < 05 ) . Among lipid parameters , TG , sdLDL-C , RC , ApoB/ApoA-1 , LDL-C/ApoB and HDL-C showed the strongest correlation with 10-year CVD risk , with Spearman ' s correlation coefficients of 41 , 38 , 35 , 31 , - 37 and - 36 , respectively . In the NGT-1hPG-high , TG , sdLDL-C , and ApoB/ApoA-1 levels were significantly higher , while HDL-C and LDL-C/ApoB levels were significantly lower compared to counterparts with NGT-1hPG-normal ( all P < 05 ) . Moreover , except for TG and RC ( both P < 01 ) , the majority of lipid parameter levels in NGT-1hPG-high did not significantly differ from those in PDM ( all P > 05 ) . CONCLUSIONS : NGT-1hPG-high exhibited a similar atherogenic lipid profile to that observed in PDM . 1-h PG could serve as a potential indicator for the early identification of at-risk individuals who may otherwise go undetected among NGT population .
BACKGROUND : The Bacillus genus is well known for producing structurally diverse lipopeptides , many of which exhibit remarkable surface-active and bioactive properties , such as surfactin and daptomycin . In recent years , genome mining has emerged as an effective tool for the discovery of novel natural products by predicting biosynthetic gene clusters and linking them to secondary metabolite production . However , the full biosynthetic potential of many Bacillus subtilis strains remains unexplored . Therefore , this study aimed to investigate the biosynthetic potential of an oilfield-isolated Bacillus subtilis strain through genome mining , with the goal of identifying novel lipopeptides with enhanced surface activity . RESULTS : In this study , we identified 14 biosynthetic gene clusters , four of which were related to lipopeptide biosynthesis . In addition , a lipopeptide was characterized as a new member of the surfactin family , namely surfactin-C The primary structure of surfactin-C18 was determined to be a heptapeptide ring of N-Glu-Leu-Leu-Val-Asp-Leu-Leu-C linked to the longest beta-hydroxy fatty acid in the surfactin family , containing 18 carbon atoms . Moreover , we investigated the surface activity of surfactin-C18 , measuring its critical micelle concentration and the surface tension to be 99 micromol/L and 63 mN/m , respectively . The obtained adsorption parameters of surfactin-C18 at the air/liquid interface further explained its enhanced surface activity in comparison with other surfactin homologs and commercial surfactants . CONCLUSIONS : To the best of our knowledge , this is the first report on the structural characterization and surface activity of surfactin-C In addition , our findings not only demonstrate the biosynthetic potential of B . subtilis but also highlight the power of the genome mining strategy for discovering novel lipopeptides with industrial applications .
BACKGROUND : Chronic myeloid leukemia ( CML ) is influenced by microenvironmental nutrients , glucose ( Glc ) , and glutamine ( Gln ) which regulate cell proliferation , viability , and the expression of the driver oncoprotein ( BCR : : ABL1 ) . RESULTS : Our study revealed that Glc , while partially supporting alone cell growth in normoxia , is essential in low oxygen conditions , whereas Gln is ineffective . Under low oxygen , Gln reduced oxidative respiratory activity while enhancing glycolysis . In these conditions , fatty acid ( FA ) metabolism becomes crucial , as evidenced by increased lipid droplets ( LD ) accumulation when Glc was absent . Gln , in particular , drives CD36-mediated FA uptake , suppressing the BCR : : ABL1 oncoprotein and facilitating cell survival . By co-culturing leukemia cells with adipocytes , one of the main bone marrow ( BM ) cell components , we observed an enhanced FA release , suggesting a link between FA , microenvironmental BM cells , and the maintenance of leukemic stem cells ( LSC ) . METHODS : K562 and KCL22 cell lines were subjected to Glc and/or Gln deprivation under hypoxic conditions ( 96 h at 1% O ) . Metabolic profiling was conducted through the Seahorse XFe96 analyzer , and the contribution of L-Glutamine-C to FA de novo synthesis was determined via GC/MS . Intracellular neutral LD were measured using BODIPY 493/503 in confocal microscopy and flow cytometry , with their presence and morphology further examined via transmission electron microscopy . BCR : : ABL1 as well as several FA-related markers were evaluated via Western Blotting , whilst CD36 was determined through flow cytometry . LC2 assay was used for measuring leukemia stem cell potential by inhibiting FA uptake via the usage of the Sulfo-N-Succinimidyl Oleate , a CD36 inhibitor . qPCR was exploited to detect markers of FA secretion in CML-adipocytes co-culture together with Nile Red staining to assess free FA in the media . CONCLUSIONS : These findings underscore the central role of FA in the regulation of the LSC compartment of CML , highlighting the importance of Gln in facilitating CML cell survival under restrictive metabolic conditions and preparing the cell population for expansion upon the release of these restrictions .
OBJECTIVE : This study analyzes data from the 2009-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) to explore the relationship between the Aggregate Index of Systemic Inflammation ( AISI ) , also referred to as the pan-immune-inflammation value ( PIV ) , and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ( T2DM ) among adults in the United States . Furthermore , it evaluates the mediating effect of obesity indicators on this association . METHODS : This study included 9 , 947 individuals from NHANES and applied appropriate weighting techniques . To examine the relationship between AISI and T2DM , we used various statistical models , including weighted multivariable logistic regression , smooth curve fitting , threshold effect analysis , subgroup analysis , trend tests , mediation analysis , and Shapley additive explanations ( SHAP ) models . RESULTS : This research included a total of 9 , 947 participants , with 3 , 220 diagnosed with T2DM , while 6 , 727 remained undiagnosed . Weighted multiple logistic regression with all covariates adjusted indicated that with every one-unit increment in AISI/1000 , there was an 3% likelihood of T2DM occurrence ( OR : 883 , 95% CI : 378-571 ) . The stratified analysis identified significant differences in this association based on age , biological sex , level of education , poverty-income ratio ( PIR ) , tobacco consumption status , and body mass index ( BMI ) . Interaction tests revealed a positive association between AISI and T2DM , apart from PIR , BMI , age , education attainment , race , gender , tobacco use status , Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate ( eGFR ) , platelet count , and high blood pressure , with none of the interaction p-values falling below Nevertheless , the occurrence of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) among participants may affect the strength of this relationship , where an interaction p-value was less than Additionally , smoothing curve fitting revealed a nonlinear relationship between AISI and T2DM , marking a significant change at AISI/1000 of Mediation analysis indicated that five obesity-related indicators-LAP , VAI , WHtR , WWI and ABSI - partly mediated the association between AISI/1000 and T2DM . CONCLUSION : An increase in AISI is associated with an elevated probability of T2DM , with obesity indicators potentially mediating this relationship . Reducing AISI and managing obesity may help prevent T2DM . However , with the cross-sectional design of this study , causal relationships cannot be established . Future research should utilize longitudinal studies to confirm these findings .
Ultrasound contrast agents ( UCAs ) play an important role in diagnosis and the imaging-guided treatment of liver tumor in clinical settings . However , most commercially available UCAs are micro-sized and fabricated through a chemical synthesis route . Here , we developed a new class of biosynthesized nanoscale contrast agent ( PEG-GVs ) and comprehensively compared its physicochemical characteristics and imaging performance with commercial Sonovue and Sonazoid . Our results revealed PEG-GVs may produce more stable and durable contrast signals , contributing to their penetration beyond blood vessels and long-time retention in liver . Interestingly , we found that PEG-GVs did not exhibit a continuously enhanced accumulation in the liver tumor due to the EPR effect , but displayed a rapid regression . The long-time retention of PEG-GVs in normal liver tissue and rapid regression from liver tumor lead to distinct display of liver tumor boundaries , enabling the early diagnosis of small liver metastases and presenting advantages in guiding radiofrequency ablation of liver tumor . Moreover , we have also verified that PEG-GVs exhibit excellent imaging performance and biosafety in macaques . Our study provides new insights into the roles of PEG-GVs in liver tumor diagnosis and ablation guidance .
BACKGROUND : Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) represents a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease , particularly heart failure with preserved ejection fraction ( HFpEF ) . HFpEF predominantly affects elderly individuals and women , and is characterized by dysfunctions associated with metabolic , inflammatory , and oxidative stress pathways . Despite HFpEF being the most prevalent heart failure phenotype in patients with T2DM , its underlying pathophysiological mechanisms remain inadequately elucidated . OBJECTIVE : This study aims to investigate the effects of diabetes mellitus on myocardial inflammation , oxidative stress , and protein quality control ( PQC ) mechanisms in HFpEF , with particular emphasis on insulin signaling , autophagy , and chaperone-mediated stress responses . METHODS : We conducted an analysis of left ventricular myocardial tissue from HFpEF patients , both with and without diabetes , employing a range of molecular , biochemical , and functional assays . The passive stiffness of cardiomyocytes ( Fpassive ) was assessed in demembranated cardiomyocytes before and after implementing treatments aimed at reducing inflammation ( IL-6 inhibition ) , oxidative stress ( Mito-TEMPO ) , and enhancing PQC ( HSP27 , HSP70 ) . Inflammatory markers ( NF-kappaB , IL-6 , TNF-alpha , ICAM-1 , VCAM-1 , NLRP3 ) , oxidative stress markers ( ROS , GSH/GSSG ratio , lipid peroxidation ) , and components of signaling pathways ( PI3K/AKT/mTOR , AMPK , MAPK , and PKG ) were evaluated using western blotting , immunofluorescence , and ELISA techniques . RESULTS : Hearts from diabetic HFpEF patients exhibited significantly heightened inflammation , characterized by the upregulation of NF-kappaB , IL-6 , and the NLRP3 inflammasome . This increase in inflammation was accompanied by elevated oxidative stress , diminished nitric oxide ( NO ) bioavailability , and impaired activation of the NO-sGC-cGMP-PKG signaling pathway . Notably , dysregulation of insulin signaling was observed , as indicated by decreased AKT phosphorylation and impaired autophagy regulation mediated by AMPK and mTOR . Additionally , PQC dysfunction was evidenced by reduced expression levels of HSP27 and HSP70 , which correlated with increased cardiomyocyte passive stiffness . Targeted therapeutic interventions effectively reduced Fpassive , with IL-6 inhibition , Mito-TEMPO , and HSP administration leading to improvements in cardiomyocyte mechanical properties . CONCLUSION : The findings of this study elucidate a mechanistic relationship among diabetes , inflammation , oxidative stress , and PQC impairment in the context of HFpEF . Therapeutic strategies that target these dysregulated pathways , including IL-6 inhibition , mitochondrial antioxidants , and chaperone-mediated protection , may enhance myocardial function in HFpEF patients with T2DM . Addressing these molecular dysfunctions could facilitate the development of novel interventions specifically tailored to the diabetic HFpEF population .
Mild-temperature photothermal therapy ( MPTT ) advances anticancer management by regulating reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and lipid peroxides ( LPO ) to inhibit the overexpression of heat shock protein 70 ( HSP70 ) , thus decreasing the cellular heat resistance and increasing the efficacy of tumor ablation . However , formidable challenge remains on the traditional MPTT without imaging-guided optimal treatment time point , thus inadequate HSP70 blockage would potentially further diminish the effectiveness of MPTT . Herein , a novel biomimetic nanoprobe ( Cu-ABTS@CCMs ) is developed , based on encapsulating the multifunctional Cu nanoparticles and ROS-responsive 2 , 2 ' -azino-bis ( 3-ethylbenzothiazole-6- sulphonic acid ) ( ABTS ) within cancer cell membranes ( CCMs ) to ensure second near-infrared photoacoustic ( NIR-II PA ) imaging-guided precise MPTT time point . The core Cu nanoparticles achieve highly effective HSP70 blockage via a nearly simultaneous cascade of photocatalytic O-generation and dual ROS/LPO accumulation . Triggered by self-enhanced ROS/LPO up-regulation , the ABTS can correspondingly oxidize to ABTS* ( + ) , which further leads the real-time ratiometric PA signals ( ABTS* ( + ) -PA730/Cu-PA960 ) that show highly accurate visualization of ROS and quantitatively convert into dynamic tracking of the changes in HSP70 blockage . The intelligent dual-modality imaging information will provide more possibilities for the optimal time-point and site-specificity of MPTT and potential avenues for the development of clinical breast cancer treatments .
OBJECTIVE : Dietary patterns play a vital role in the health management of individuals with metabolic syndrome . Many recent studies have shown that intermittent fasting ( IF ) has better effects , such as improving obesity . Nevertheless , it warrants further investigation to determine which approach is more effective in comparison to continuous energy restriction ( CR ) , particularly when total calorie intake shows minimal variation . Consequently , it is crucial to evaluate the degree of enhancement of the two dietary patterns concerning different aspects of metabolic syndrome . This study presents a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) aimed at comparing the impacts of IF and CR on obesity and glucolipid metabolism in individuals diagnosed with metabolic syndrome . METHODS : In August 2024 , a thorough examination of English-language literature was performed across the PubMed , Medline , Embase , and Cochrane Library databases . The meta-analyses was performed according to the established guidelines and reported the results . Weight change , Body Mass Index ( BMI ) change , and triglyceride ( TG ) level change were designated as key assessment indicators , while blood pressure , blood glucose , hip circumference , and waist circumference served as supplementary indicators for comparative analysis . RESULT : A total of nine studies involving 626 patients were analyzed , focusing on the influence of dietary patterns on obesity , cholesterol levels , and insulin resistance among individuals diagnosed with metabolic syndrome . Both dietary patterns were beneficial for patients with metabolic syndrome . However , IF was better than CRin terms of improvement in obesity over the trial period ( mean -77 , 95% CI [-06 , -48] ) , and it was more conducive to a reduction in TG levels , which was beneficial in terms of improving insulin resistance ( mean -16 , 95% CI [-88 , -45] ) . CONCLUSION : Given its notable advantages for obesity , lipids , and insulin resistance , along with improved patient adherence , IF may be regarded as a more effective dietary approach for individuals with metabolic syndrome . Nonetheless , the long-term effectiveness still necessitates additional validation . PROSPERO REGISTRATION : CRD
INTRODUCTION : Dyslipidemia and other CVD risk factors in cardiac patients can lead to accelerated atherosclerosis , morbidity , and significant mortality . Identifying the potential contributory factors of dyslipidemia in hypertensive patients is crucial in order to manage the disease condition and reduce further complications . Although dyslipidemia has been studied in many countries , evidence of pooled prevalence and its risk factors in Ethiopia remains scarce . Thus , this meta-analysis aimed to estimate the pooled prevalence of dyslipidemia ( high TG , low HDL-C , high LDL-C , and high TC ) and associated factors among adults with hypertension in Ethiopia . METHODS : The reporting system adhered to the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Review and Meta-analysis guidelines . Articles were searched using electronic databases such as PubMed , Cochrane Library , Science Direct , African Journals Online , and Google Scholar from April 1 to April 21 , 2024 to find relevant studies . We utilized Endnote X7 and STATA 11 for bibliographical management and statistical analysis , respectively . The heterogeneity of the included studies was analyzed using forest plots , Cochran ' s Q statistics , I test , and P-values . RESULTS : The electronic searches yielded 10 , 629 articles . Based on the quality assessment , all the included studies had high quality . The overall pooled prevalence of dyslipidemia among hypertensive patients in Ethiopia was 12% ( 95% CI : 79-44% ; I=4% ) . The pooled point estimates for high TC were ( 39% , 95% CI : 92-85 ; I=9% ) , TG ( 89% , 95% CI : 90-88 ; I=6% ) , high LDL-c ( 98% , 95% CI : 46-49 ; I=4% ) , and low HDL-c ( 23% , 95% CI : 76-71 ; I=9% ) . Based on this meta-analysis , dyslipidemia was associated with age >/= 40 years and sedentary lifestyle . CONCLUSION : This study suggests that dyslipidemia was high among the study participants , which underlines urgent need for early detection and public health interventions through the integrated involvement of public , governmental , and non-governmental organizations . Dyslipidemia was associated with , age >/= 40 years , and sedentary lifestyle . This alarms the need for lipid profile assessment for patients periodically , with treatment follow-up to monitor any rising patterns and cardiovascular related risks .
BACKGROUND : Data for the study cohort were sourced from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( 1999-2018 ) . Study participants were classified as obese ( BMI >/= 30 kg/m ) or nonobese ( BMI < 30 kg/m ) then further categorized as metabolically healthy or unhealthy on the basis of metabolic syndrome criteria , resulting in four groups : metabolically healthy obese ( MHO ) , metabolically unhealthy obese ( MUO ) , metabolically healthy nonobese ( MHNO ) , and metabolically unhealthy nonobese ( MUNO ) . Complex sampling statistical methods were employed for descriptive analysis . The associations between the TyG index and mortality , including all-cause and cardiovascular mortalities , were examined by using multivariable Cox regression and restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) . The reliability of the results was confirmed through multiple sensitivity analyses . METHODS : Data for the study cohort were sourced from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( 1999-2018 ) . Study participants were classified as obese ( BMI >/= 30 kg/m ) or nonobese ( BMI < 30 kg/m ) then further categorized as metabolically healthy or unhealthy on the basis of metabolic syndrome criteria , resulting in four groups : metabolically healthy obese ( MHO ) , metabolically unhealthy obese ( MUO ) , metabolically healthy nonobese ( MHNO ) , and metabolically unhealthy nonobese ( MUNO ) . Complex sampling statistical methods were employed for descriptive analysis . The associations between the TyG index and mortality , including all-cause and cardiovascular mortalities , were examined by using multivariable Cox regression and restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) . The reliability of the results was confirmed through multiple sensitivity analyses . RESULTS : A total of 16 179 participants were included , with a median follow-up of 129 months . Over this follow-up period , 1875 participants ( 59% ) died from all causes , including 568 ( 51% ) who died due to cardiovascular diseases . After adjustment for confounding variables , the TyG index significantly predicted mortality in the overall and metabolically unhealthy populations : for each one standard deviation increase in the TyG index , all-cause mortality increased by 42 times ( 95% confidence interval [CI] : 27 , 58 ) in the overall population , by 62 times ( 95% CI : 36 , 93 ) in the MUNO group , and by 47 times ( 95% CI : 26 , 71 ) in the MUO group . Cardiovascular mortality in the overall population increased by 52 times ( 95% CI : 27 , 82 ) , that in the MUNO group increased by 01 times ( 95% CI : 49 , 72 ) , and that in the MUO group increased by 47 times ( 95% CI : 14 , 88 ) . No significant association was found in the metabolically healthy populations regardless of obesity status . RCS and sensitivity analyses further confirmed and visualized these conclusions . CONCLUSIONS : The TyG index is positively correlated with mortality risk in the overall and metabolically unhealthy populations but not in the metabolically healthy populations . This finding indicates that the predictive value of the TyG index for mortality differs across populations , highlighting the necessity of accounting for metabolic status when the TyG index is used for prognostic evaluation .
BACKGROUND : Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , a metabolic liver disorder closely associated with obesity and diabetes , urgently requires early screening . This population-based study is the first to explore the relationship between glycemic control and a novel dyslipidemia composite index-the glycated hemoglobin/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HbA1c/HDL-C ) ratio in individuals with NAFLD and liver fibrosis . METHODS : Data from 5 , 891 adults in the 2017-2020 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) were analyzed . Binary logistic regression and restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) analyses were used to evaluate the association between HbA1c/HDL-C ratio and the risk of NAFLD and liver fibrosis . The reliability of the results was confirmed using subgroup , interaction , and sensitivity analyses . Screening performance was assessed using receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves , and differences between various indicators were compared using the DeLong test . RESULTS : After adjusting for confounding factors , each 1% increase in the HbA1c/HDL-C ratio was associated with a 20% higher risk of NAFLD ( odds ratio [OR] = 20 , 95% confidence interval [CI] : 14-27 , P < 001 ) . Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of these findings ( P < 001 ) . However , the associations with liver fibrosis ( P = 064 ) and moderate-to-severe liver fibrosis ( P = 130 ) were not statistically significant . Participants in the highest HbA1c/HDL-C quartile had significantly higher odds of NAFLD than those in the lowest quartile ( OR = 21 , 95% CI : 74-79 ) . RCS analysis revealed a non-linear positive correlation between the HbA1c/HDL-C and NAFLD risk ( P for non-linear = 003 ) . Subgroup and interaction analyses showed that this association was more pronounced in the non-diabetic population . The ROC curve yielded an AUC of 713 for NAFLD screening . CONCLUSION : In U . S . adults , the HbA1c/HDL-C appears to be an effective tool for NAFLD screening . As a novel composite index , it also holds considerable reference value for identifying NAFLD risk in the non-diabetic population .
The COVID-19 pandemic has emphasized the potential of mRNA vaccines in fighting pandemics , owing to their rapid development , strong immunogenicity and adaptability . However , a drawback is their dose-limiting reactogenicity and inability to generate durable humoral immunity . Here we introduce a modular nucleotide vaccine platform combining the advantages of genetic and capsid virus-like-particle-based vaccines . This platform allows for the display of various antigens on different capsid virus-like particles , improving the magnitude , quality and longevity of the vaccine-induced immune responses . We applied this technology to enhance the immunogenicity of the Pfs25 antigen . Immunization with lipid-nanoparticle-formulated mRNA encoding Pfs25 capsid virus-like particles resulted in higher and potentially more durable anti-Pfs25 antibody responses , along with enhanced functional activity , compared with an mRNA vaccine encoding soluble Pfs By improving both humoral and cellular immune responses , this approach may reduce the dose and number of administrations required for effective protection . As a result , it can improve the feasibility of both DNA- and mRNA-based vaccines targeting pandemic and endemic infectious diseases .
Perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) poses a threat to the environment and human health due to its persistence , bioaccumulation , and reproductive toxicity . Developing and fabricating straightforward and selective sensors for the immediate identification of PFOA is substantial and demanding . In this paper , the advancement in the creation of molecularly imprinted sensors ( MGO@ZIF-8@MIPs ) utilizing magnetic graphene oxide ( MGO ) modified with metal-organic frameworks as substrates and catalytic agents is described . They were fabricated through surface imprinting technology for the quick identification and quantification of PFOA . MGO@ZIF-8@MIPs displayed peroxidase-like activity , facilitating the oxidation of 3 , 3 ' , 5 , 5 ' -tetramethylbenzidine ( TMB ) to produce a blue-colored oxidized TMB in the presence of hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) . The strong binding capacity of the imprinted layer for PFOA reduced the peroxidase-like activity of MGO@ZIF-8@MIPs in the presence of PFOA , leading to a notable reduction in the intensity of the blue color . The absorbance at 650 nm progressively declined as the PFOA concentration increased . On the basis of this , a colorimetric method based on MGO@ZIF-8@MIPs for the swift identification of PFOA in environmental water and milk samples was developed . This sensing platform demonstrated exceptional sensitivity and superior selectivity for the detection of PFOA , featuring a low detection limit of 12 muM . These results highlight the remarkable potential of MGO@ZIF-8@MIPs for applications in environmental and food sensing .
BACKGROUND : A long-term high-fat diet ( HFD ) leads to excessive lipid deposition , which may cause many diseases , including NAFLD , diabetes , and thyroid dysfunction . In addition , HFD leads to a decrease in serum growth hormone ( GH ) levels to further increase lipid deposition and obesity . However , the mechanism of such reduction of GH has not been fully elucidated . METHODS : Male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed a regular diet ( CD ) or a high-fat diet ( HFD ) for 29 weeks . GH synthesis and secretion were evaluated in pituitary and blood samples , respectively . An in vitro model was constructed by treating cultured cells with palmitic acid ( PA ) . Vit D receptor ( VDR ) plasmids ( OE-VDR ) , paricalcitol and VDR knockdown virus ( sh-VDR ) were used to overexpress or depress the activation of VDR during PA treatment of GH3 cells . The GH content , lipid content , and relevant expression of different molecules were measured in pituitary and cell samples . RESULTS : A HFD decreased the levels of circulating GH and the expression of Gh in the anterior pituitary gland tissues of rats . In vitro , PA treatment decreased Pit1 and Gh expression in cultured GH3 cells . VDR expression was reduced in the rat pituitary tissues under HFD conditions and in PA-treated GH3 cells . The overexpression and knockdown of VDR increased and decreased the expression of Pit1 and Gh , respectively . Paricalcitol antagonized the decrease in the expression of Pit1 and Gh caused by PA treatment . CONCLUSIONS : HFD induced lipid deposition in the pituitary may cause GH deficiency , and VDR - Pit1 may be at least partially involved in the process .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic and bariatric surgery improves most obesity-related comorbidities . Here , we evaluate the effect of different metabolic and bariatric surgery interventions on the use of medications to treat chronic conditions . MATERIALS AND METHODS : This was an observational population-based cohort study performed in Lombardy , Italy . Healthcare utilization databases were used to identify all residents who underwent a metabolic and bariatric surgery procedure between 2010 and 2020 with available follow-up data for at least three years after surgery . We included patients undergoing laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy ( LSG ) , gastric bypass ( GB ) , laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding ( LAGB ) , and biliopancreatic diversion ( BPD ) . RESULTS : During the period 2010 to 2020 , 19 , 450 patients ( 5% males , 5% with diabetes ) underwent a metabolic and bariatric surgery procedure . LSG was the most commonly performed procedure ( 65% ) , followed by LAGB ( 19% ) , GB ( 15% ) , and BPD ( 1% ) . There was a significant reduction in the use of glucose-lowering and antihypertensive drugs after the procedure in all groups . Compared to LSG , the reduction in the use of glucose-lowering drugs was greater following GB ( reduction at 3 years : 59 vs 65% , p-interaction < 001 ) and lower following LAGB ( 59 vs 25% , p-interaction < 001 ) . There was a significant reduction in lipid-lowering drug use following LSG and GB ( 3-year reduction : 21 and 50% , p-interaction < 001 ) , and in psychiatric drug use following LSG , GB , and LAGB ( with no difference between groups ) . In all groups , proton pump inhibitor use increased during the first 6 months , followed by a decrease from 1 year afterward . CONCLUSION : The present study including a large number of patients undergoing metabolic and bariatric surgery procedures shows robust reductions in the use of glucose , blood pressure and lipid-lowering drugs at 3 years follow-up , suggesting benefits of surgery on both quality of life and healthcare costs .
The development of analytical technology that allows investigation of the diversity of cells that form biological tissues based on molecular information is important to elucidate the heterogeneity of cells and pathological mechanisms . Here , we present a proof-of-concept demonstration of single-cell mass spectrometry imaging ( SC-MSI ) via tapping-mode scanning probe electrospray ionization ( t-SPESI ) , which is an atmospheric-pressure sampling ionization technique . We developed a novel t-SPESI unit that can be used in combination with an inverted fluorescence microscope and basic technologies to extract components from microregions of cells and measure ions with high sensitivity . We performed multimodal ( fluorescence , lipid ion , and topographic ) imaging of two types of HeLa cells labeled with fluorescent dyes and chemically fixed and showed the potential for subcellular-scale analysis of both cell structure and chemical composition . Furthermore , we evaluated the lipid species by comparing the SC-MSI results with those of supercritical fluid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry . The technical advancement presented here is effective for distinguishing cell types based on the signal intensity of lipid ions in single cells and investigating differences in the subcellular localization of lipids in different types of cells .
Liver disease ( LD ) is complex pathological condition that has emerged as a major threat to human health and the quality of life . Nonetheless , the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of LD have not yet been fully elucidated . Recently , a large amount of evidence has shown that long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) play important roles in diverse biological processes in the liver . The dysregulation of lncRNAs in the liver , for example , can affect tumor proliferation , migration , and invasion , contribute to hepatic metabolism disorder of lipid and glucose , and shape of hepatic tumoral microenvironment . Thus , a comprehensive understanding of the functional roles of lncRNAs in LD pathogenesis may provide new perspectives for the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic tools . In the present review , we summarize the current findings on the relationship between lncRNAs and LD , including the modes of action of lncRNAs , the biological significance of lncRNAs in the pathogenesis of LD , especially in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) as well as in some non-neoplastic disorders , and the potential use of lncRNAs as diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets for LD .
ARID1A , a subunit of the SWI/SNF chromatin-remodeling complex , functions as a tumor suppressor in various cancer types . Owing to its high frequency of inactivating mutations , ARID1A has emerged as a promising target for the development of anticancer drugs . In this study , we report that ARID1A-deficient colorectal cancer ( CRC ) cells induce synthetic lethality when treated with inhibitors of c-MET receptor tyrosine kinase . c-MET specific inhibitor PHA-665752 as well as two other FDA-approved drugs , crizotinib and cabozantinib , selectively inhibited the growth of ARID1A-deficient CRC cells in vitro and in xenograft tumor models . Mechanistically , we identified a tripartite functional association among ARID1A , c-MET , and NRF2 , where ARID1A and c-MET pathways converge on the NRF2 transcription factor , which regulates the transcription of GPX4 , a key regulator of ferroptosis . ARID1A inactivation reduces c-MET expression , decreasing NRF2 nuclear localization and its binding to the GPX4 promoter , resulting in reduced GPX4 transcription . This creates a cellular dependency on the residual c-MET for minimal GPX4 expression to survive the ferroptotic cell death . Additionally , we demonstrate that ARID1A loss leads to increased intracellular labile iron accumulation by downregulating the iron-exporting protein SLC40A1 , thereby increasing cellular susceptibility to ferroptosis . Inhibition of c-MET in ARID1A-deficient CRC cells diminishes GPX4 expression , resulting in elevated lipid peroxidation and glutathione depletion , ultimately inducing ferroptosis . This study reveals a novel synthetic lethal relationship between ARID1A and c-MET signaling in promoting ferroptosis and proposes c-MET inhibitors as a potential therapeutic strategy for ARID1A-deficient CRC .
The encapsulation of essential oils ( EOs ) in nanostructured lipid carriers ( NLCs ) represents an innovative and advanced approach to improve their stability and efficacy . This study evaluated , for the first time , the toxicity of Foeniculum vulgare EO ( FVO ) , its main component , and nanoformulation ( FVO-NLC ) on Phthorimaea absoluta and their side effects on generalist predator , Macrolophus pygmaeus . The obtained FVO-NLC had spherical and small ( 32 nm ) particle sizes , and its encapsulation efficacy was greater than 98% . FTIR analysis revealed no significant chemical interaction between EO and NLC components . Trans-anethole ( TAL ) ( 22% ) was identified as the key FVO component . The leaf dip method was used for bioassays . FVO-NLC and FVO showed a similar level of contact toxicity against P . absoluta with LC values of 57 and 44 microL/mL , respectively , while TAL had an LC value of 93 microL/mL . The lethality test revealed the slow and persistent release of FVO from FVO-NLC . Furthermore , the life table data were analyzed using the TWO SEX-MSChart program . Results indicated that all selected bio-insecticides at their LC values reduced fecundity and negatively affected biological and population growth parameters in target pest , and usage of them was proved to be harmless for the predator according to IOBC protocols .
Mitochondria display intricately shaped deep invaginations of the mitochondrial inner membrane ( MIM ) termed cristae . This peculiar membrane architecture is essential for diverse mitochondrial functions , such as oxidative phosphorylation or the biosynthesis of cellular building blocks . Conserved protein nano-machineries such as FF ( o ) -ATP synthase oligomers and the mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system ( MICOS ) act as adaptable protein-lipid scaffolds controlling MIM biogenesis and its dynamic remodelling . Signal-dependent rearrangements of cristae architecture and MIM fusion events are governed by the dynamin-like GTPase optic atrophy 1 ( OPA1 ) . Recent groundbreaking structural insights into these nano-machineries have considerably advanced our understanding of the functional architecture of mitochondria . In this Review , we discuss how the MIM-shaping machineries cooperate to control cristae and crista junction dynamics , including MIM fusion , in response to cellular signalling pathways . We also explore how mutations affecting MIM-shaping machineries compromise mitochondrial functions .
The optical flow ratio ( OFR ) , derived from optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) images , serves as a physiological index , while the Triglyceride-Glucose Index ( TyG ) is an alternative measure of insulin resistance . Both indices are positively correlated with poor prognosis in patients with acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) , but the relationship between the TyG index , OFR , and their prognostic value remains unclear . We included ACS patients who underwent OCT between January 1 , 2021 , and March 31 , The TyG index was calculated as Ln[fasting triglycerides ( mg/dL ) x fasting blood glucose ( mg/dL ) /2] . Patients were grouped into three categories ( T1 , T2 , and T3 ) based on TyG tertiles . The primary endpoint was major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACE ) . In our analysis , the T3 group showed a significantly higher incidence of MACE ( P < 05 ) , with a progressive decrease in vessel-level OFR observed as the TyG index increased , demonstrating a linear correlation ( r = - 0146 , P < 001 ) . The restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) model revealed a nonlinear relationship between the TyG index and the likelihood of MACE ( P for nonlinear < 021 ) . Additionally , the cumulative incidence of MACE was significantly higher in patients with a higher TyG index ( all Log-rank P < 001 ) . These findings suggest a nonlinear relationship between the TyG index and MACE , and a linear association between the TyG index and vessel-level OFR . The combination of the TyG index and OFR significantly improved discriminatory ability ( c-index : 720 vs . 757 ; P < 001 ) and reclassification ability ( net reclassification index [NRI] : 373 ; integrated discrimination improvement [IDI] : 031 ; P < 0001 ) for predicting MACE compared to vessel-level OFR alone . This combination effectively identifies high-risk ACS patients .
All symptoms of malaria are caused during the replication of the parasite Plasmodium falciparum in human red blood cells . The parasite digests the host cell cytoplasm in its food vacuole , a pathway of particular interest as drug target . The Vps34-type PI3-kinase in P . falciparum produces PI3-monophophate ( PI3P ) and has been linked to haemoglobin digestion , to resistance to the current first line antimalarial artemisinin and to biology of the apicoplast . Here we dissect the functions of PfPI3-kinase by inducible deletion of its gene using the loxP-DiCre system and find that PfPI3-kinase is essential for parasite survival . Mutant parasites accumulate undigested haemoglobin ( Hb ) confirming a defect in the pathway of Hb uptake and digestion , the most likely reason for parasite death . Some parasites are affected in apicoplast inheritance demonstrating that PI3P-dependent processes are important for apicoplast biology in P . falciparum . Finally , we discover that in PI3-kinase mutant parasites carrying a mutation conferring resistance to artemisinin , the lower amounts of PI3P correlate with lower levels of artemisinin resistance . We suggest that the reduced levels of PI3P in the PI3-kinase mutant dampen repair mechanisms like the autophagic processes normally associated with Kelch13 mutations , leading to a proteotoxic stress and to an increase in susceptibility to artemisinin .
The mammalian gut harbours trillions of commensal bacteria that interact with their hosts through various bioactive molecules ( 1 , 2 ) . However , the mutualistic strategies that hosts evolve to benefit from these symbiotic relationships are largely unexplored . Here we report that mouse enterocytes secrete apolipoprotein L9a and b ( APOL9a/b ) in the presence of microbiota . By integrating flow cytometry sorting of APOL9-binding bacterial taxa with 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing ( APOL9-seq ) , we identify that APOL9a/b , as well as their human equivalent APOL2 , coat gut bacteria belonging to the order of Bacteroidales with a high degree of specificity through commensal ceramide-1-phosphate ( Cer1P ) lipids . Genetic abolition of ceramide-1-phosphate synthesis pathways in gut-dominant symbiote Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron significantly decreases the binding of APOL9a/b to the bacterium . Instead of lysing the bacterial cells , coating of APOL9a/b induces the production of outer membrane vesicles ( OMVs ) from the target bacteria . Subsequently , the Bacteroides-elicited outer membrane vesicles enhance the host ' s interferon-gamma signalling to promote major histocompatibility complex class II expression in the intestinal epithelial cells . In mice , the loss of Apol9a/b compromises the gut major histocompatibility complex class II-instructed immune barrier function , leading to early mortality from infection by intestinal pathogens . Our data show how a host-elicited factor benefits gut immunological homeostasis by selectively targeting commensal ceramide molecules .
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) has reached epidemic proportions globally , posing a significant burden on public health . Dysregulation of lipid metabolism and insulin resistance in T2DM often leads to hepatic complications , making the modulation of microRNAs ( miRNAs ) associated with these pathways a promising therapeutic target . This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of aerobic training ( AT ) and vitamin D supplementation on the liver of individuals with T2DM by examining the modulation of miRNAs related to lipid metabolism and insulin resistance . Specifically , the miRNAs examined in this study were miR-33 , miR-122 , miR-29 , and miR- Thirty-two male Wistar rats with T2DM were randomly assigned to four groups : Control ( C ) , AT , moderate dose of Vitamin D supplementation ( MD ; 5 , 000 IU ) , and high dose of Vitamin D supplementation ( HD ; 10 , 000 IU ) . The AT group underwent an eight-week program consisting of treadmill running sessions , five days per week , with a gradual increase in intensity and duration . The vitamin D supplementation groups received either 5 , 000 or 10 , 000 IU of vitamin D , administered via injection once weekly for 8 weeks . The study used the STZ + HFD rat model and collected liver tissue samples for analysis . Total RNA , including miRNA , was extracted from the liver tissue samples , and the miRNA expression levels were quantified using quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR ) . Statistical analyses were performed using one-way ANOVA followed by Tukey ' s post hoc test . AT led to significantly lower fasting plasma insulin levels ( p < 05 ) and a notable improvement in the homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance ( HOMA-IR ) index , indicating enhanced insulin sensitivity compared with the control and other groups . It also resulted in significantly lower triglyceride levels ( p < 01 ) and a favorable shift in the HDL/LDL ratio , indicative of improved lipid metabolism . Vitamin D supplementation showed a dose-dependent reduction in insulin resistance , with the 10 , 000 IU group demonstrating a more pronounced improvement compared with the 5 , 000 IU group . Rats supplemented with vitamin D exhibited a dose-dependent modulation of lipid profile , with the 10 , 000 IU group demonstrating a more significant decrease in triglycerides and an increase in HDL/LDL ratio . The expression of miR-33 , miR-122 , miR-29 , and miR-9 differed significantly among the experimental groups . The AT group exhibited a significant downregulation of miR-122 and miR-9 while showing a significant upregulation of miR-33 and miR-29 compared to the C and the MD groups . The HD group showed significant downregulation of miR-122 and miR-9 compared to the C and the MD groups . Both AT and high-dose vitamin D supplementation have beneficial effects on insulin levels , insulin resistance , and lipid metabolism in rats with T2DM by modulating miRNA expression , thereby inhibiting insulin resistance and improving T2DM .
Sarcopenia , characterized by the progressive loss of skeletal muscle mass and strength , significantly impacts the people , leading to increased frailty and mortality . The atherogenic index of plasma ( AIP ) , a biomarker for lipid imbalance , may be linked to sarcopenia due to shared pathways of inflammation and metabolic dysregulation . Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) 2011-2018 cycles were analyzed . The AIP was calculated as the logarithm of the ratio of triglycerides to High density lipoprotein cholesterol . Sarcopenia was defined using the appendicular skeletal muscle mass index ( ASMBMI ) adjusted for body mass index ( BMI ) . Multivariable linear regression and logistic regression models were employed to assess the association between AIP and ASMBMI , as well as sarcopenia . Restrictive cubic spline curves were utilized to analyze potential nonlinear associations between AIP and outcome indicators . Additionally , subgroup analyses and intergroup interaction tests were performed . Elevated AIP levels were associated with decreased ASMBMI and an increased risk of sarcopenia . After adjusting for confounding factors , the association between AIP and ASMBMI remained significant ( Beta [95% CI] = -02 [-03 , -01] , P < 001 ) . AIP was significantly associated with sarcopenia ( OR [95% CI] = 6 [78 , 81] , P = < 001 ) . AIP is significantly associated with reduced muscle mass and potentially with sarcopenia , suggesting that lipid metabolism plays a critical role in muscle health . Identifying AIP as a modifiable risk factor could have important public health implications for managing sarcopenia .
Spodoptera litura , commonly known as the leaf cutworm , is a destructive agricultural pest that poses significant threats to crop yields . In light of the growing resistance to conventional chemical insecticides , this study investigates the potential of lemongrass ( Cymbopogon citratus ) and cedarwood ( Juniperus virginiana ) essential oils as sustainable , eco-friendly alternatives for controlling S . litura . Using in-silico techniques , including homology modeling , protein structure validation , and protein-ligand docking , the binding affinities of lemongrass and cedarwood bioactive compounds against critical proteins in S . litura , such as cytochrome c oxidase , alpha-glucosidase , octopamine receptors , and chemosensory protein has been evaluated . The results showed that the compounds : chamazulene , robustoflavone , cynaroside , hinkoflavone , spathulenol , robustaflavone , and amentoflavone exhibited strong inhibitory potential , with superior binding stability and interaction energies compared to the chemical insecticide chlorpyrifos . Additionally , synergistic effects were observed when combining compounds from lemongrass and cedarwood , which improved binding stability and enhanced multi-target inhibition . This study highlights the promise of these natural compounds as viable , environmentally friendly pest control agents and provides a foundation for developing plant-based bioinsecticides to manage S . litura . Future experimental research is needed to validate these findings in field applications and assess their broader ecological impacts .
Parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) analogs with improved actions in vivo could lead to optimized treatments for bone and mineral ion diseases . Rapid clearance from the circulation and short dwell times on the PTH receptor limit the efficacies of conventional PTH peptides currently in medical use . Here , we seek to enhance PTH peptide efficacy using two distinct peptide lipidation strategies . First , we append a lipid chain to the peptide ' s C-terminus in a fashion to promote binding to serum albumin and hence prolong the peptide ' s circulation half-life in vivo . Second , we append a lipid chain to a lysine side chain in a fashion designed to anchor the peptide to the cell membrane as the ligand is bound to the receptor and hence increase its dwell time on the receptor . We find that both strategies of lipidation can profoundly enhance the efficacy of PTH peptides in vitro and in mice . Our results could lead to the development of modified PTH analogs with optimized therapeutic utility .
Obesity is accompanied with accumulation and pro-inflammatory polarization of macrophages in adipose tissue ( AT ) , leading to systematical inflammation and insulin resistance . Impaired lipid metabolism and endocrine function in adipocytes is recognized as a culprit in the onset of adipose tissue inflammation . Lipid levels can be managed via inhibiting both synthesis and transport or via increasing fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) . The deacetylase Sirtuin 3 ( SIRT3 ) participates in inflammatory responses via regulating mitochondrial function and FAO . Herein , an AT-specific SIRT3 overexpression mice model ( AT-SIRT3OE ) was generated using adeno-associated virus transduction . AT-specific SIRT3 overexpression did not alter body weight or adiposity in either regular chow diet or high-fat diet ( HFD ) fed mice . AT-SIRT3OE mice exhibited improved insulin sensitivity in HFD-fed mice , through alleviating infiltration of macrophage and pro-inflammatory macrophage polarization in the epididymal AT . The metabolomics analysis indicated that SIRT3 overexpressed adipocytes accumulated more L-carnitine ( LC ) and less long-chain acylarnitines in the medium . Furthermore , SIRT3 directly deacetylates and activates carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 ( CPT2 ) , an obligate step in mitochondrial long-chain FAO , to enhance the LC turnover pool in adipocytes , which in turn promoted lipid metabolism and anti-inflammatory polarization in macrophages . Collectively , our study provided new evidence that adipocyte-expressed SIRT3 alleviates inflammatory crosstalk between adipocytes and macrophages through manipulating LC pool . Activating SIRT3 in adipocytes could be a potential strategy to alleviate obesity-related metabolic diseases .
As a part of a continuous 90 day subchronic toxicology study , integrated metabolomic and transcriptomic approaches were applied to assess the metabolic network changes in the livers of Kunming mice exposed to three typical thermally induced food toxicants , including oxidative derivatives of triacylglycerols ( ox-TGs ) , aldehydes , and 3-monochloropropane-1 , 2-diol esters ( 3-MCPDE ) , as well as their mixtures . Results showed lipid metabolic dysregulation through impaired purine metabolism , PPAR signaling , and bile acid metabolism . Ox-TGs emerged as the most hazardous compound , altering over 10 genes/enzymes . 3-MCPDE exhibited gender-specific effects , significantly upregulating fatty acid metabolism and gluconeogenesis genes in males . Interestingly , toxicant mixtures attenuated the adverse metabolic effects caused by individual compounds , demonstrating complex regulatory mechanisms in fatty acid biosynthesis and oxidation . The metabolomic and transcriptomic analyses conducted in this study revealed that combined exposure to multiple toxicants generated during lipid thermal processing may induce more complex toxicity effects than the simple additive effects of individual toxicants . Certain antagonistic effects were observed when comparing individual toxicants to their mixtures , highlighting the need for further mechanistic verifications in this area . FAU - Zhang , Miao
Calcific aortic valve disease ( CAVD ) is one of the most prevalent heart valve diseases and is characterized by progressive stiffening and calcification of the aortic valve . For decades , CAVD has been treated with surgical intervention . In recent years , some progress has been made in understanding the pathogenesis of CAVD and the exploration of novel therapeutic strategies , leading to the identification of potential therapeutic targets and innovative treatment approaches . This review systematically outlines the pathophysiological advances in CAVD over the past 5 years , proposing a 3-stage model for disease progression : inflammatory , fibrotic , and calcification stages . In addition , recent clinical trials investigating pharmacological therapies , such as those targeting lipid metabolism , vitamin K pathways , and calcium-phosphorus balance , are summarized and discussed . These developments hold promise for improving patient outcomes and revolutionizing the management of CAVD . FAU - Chen , Yuhe
BACKGROUND : This study examined the association between Life ' s Essential 8 ( LE8 ) and the Korean population ' s risk of all-cause and cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) mortality . METHODS AND RESULTS : This study included 21 , 482 adults aged >/=19 years who were enrolled in the Korea National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey . Cardiovascular health ( CVH ) was assessed using the LE8 score , which comprises the following 8 components : diet , physical activity , nicotine exposure , sleep health , body mass index , blood lipids , blood glucose , and blood pressure . The LE8 score ranges from 0 to 100 and was categorized as low ( 0-49 ) , middle ( 50-79 ) , high ( >/=80 ) , with higher scores indicating better CVH . A Cox proportional hazards model was used to estimate hazard ratios , and the population attributable fraction ( PAF ) was used to determine individual risks associated with each CVH metric . During a median follow-up of 3 years , there were 709 all-cause and 122 CVD-related deaths . In the fully adjusted model , compared with low scores , middle and high LE8 scores were associated with 34% and 42% lower risks of all-cause mortality , respectively . A similar reduction in CVD mortality was observed with higher LE8 scores . Physical activity showed the highest PAF , contributing 37% for all-cause mortality and 51% for CVD mortality . CONCLUSIONS : Higher LE8 scores were significantly associated with lower all-cause and CVD mortality . Physical activity had the greatest impact on PAF for mortality . FAU - Han , Yunmin
The ratio of uric acid ( UA ) to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) is a marker of inflammation . However , whether this ratio is associated with left ventricular ( LV ) diastolic function remains unknown . This study tested the hypothesis that the UA-to-HDL-C ratio is associated with LV diastolic parameters derived from gated myocardial perfusion single-photon emission computed tomography ( SPECT ) in patients with no significant perfusion abnormalities . The study population included 204 patients with no significant perfusion abnormalities and a preserved ejection fraction . The peak filling rate ( PFR ) and one-third mean filling rate ( 1/3 MFR ) were obtained as LV diastolic parameters using gated SPECT . Serum UA and plasma HDL-C levels were also examined . Significant associations were observed between the UA-to-HDL-C ratio and the PFR ( r = -20 ; P = 005 ) and 1/3 MFR ( r = -17 ; P = 018 ) . Multivariate linear regression analysis was performed to determine the factors associated with LV diastolic parameters . Age ( beta = -13 ; P = 046 ) , the LV end-diastolic volume ( beta = -17 ; P = 046 ) , and the UA-to-HDL-C ratio ( beta = -17 ; P = 023 ) were significantly associated with the PFR . Moreover , age ( beta = -18 ; P = 011 ) , the LV mass index ( beta = -19 ; P = 011 ) , and the UA-to-HDL-C ratio ( beta = -14 ; P = 047 ) were significantly associated with the 1/3 MFR . These results demonstrated that the UA-to-HDL-C ratio is associated with LV diastolic function derived from gated SPECT in patients with no significant perfusion abnormalities . FAU - Yamamoto , Ryotaro
INTRODUCTION : Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( MASLD ) is one of the highly prevalent metabolic disorders worldwide The present study aimed to determine the association between a novel dietary lipophilic index ( LI ) with metabolic profile and MASLD in a population-based study in Amol , Iran . PATIENTS AND METHODS : A cross-sectional study was conducted among 2979 Iranian adults within the framework of the Amol cohort study ( AmolCS ) Dietary assessments were performed using a validated 168-item food frequency questionnaire ( FFQ ) The dietary fatty acids were determined using the food composition table in Food Data Central of the USDA to indicate the lipophilic index Information about the melting point of fatty acids was obtained from the lipid bank database MASLD was defined as the ultrasound detection of hepatic steatosis that ruled out other causes of hepatic fat accumulation Then , dietary LI and lipophilic load ( LL ) were calculated using dietary fatty acid intake and melting point Multivariate MASLD The analysis was carried out for all participants stratified by sex and BMI Potential confounders were included in three different adjusted models . RESULTS : The results revealed that dietary LI was associated with higher BMI and ( WHtR ) , low physical activity , being female , living in urban residencies , and diabetes After adjustment for potential confounders , age , and energy intake , the odds ratio of MASLD in women was 33 ( 95 % CI : 05-99 , p = 048 ) in the last tertile of dietary LI compared to the first tertile In adjustment by age and energy intake , chronic disease , smoking , physical activity , waist circumference , and residency women have a higher chance of MASLD in the second tertile of dietary LI ( OR : 38 95 % CI : 01-89 ) as well as in the third LI ( OR : 39 , 95 % CI : 02-91 ) compared to the first tertile When the body mass index ( BMI ) was added to other confounders variables , the odds ratio of MASLD was 44 ( 95 % CI : 05-99 ) in the second tertile of LI and 41 ( 95 % CI : 02-95 ) in the third tertiles , Ptrend=04 In normal weight participants ( BMI< 25 ) , after adjustment for age and energy intake , the odds of MASLD were 86 % higher ( CI ; 07-25 , Ptrend< 03 ) in the last tertile of LL compared to the first one . CONCLUSIONS : This study found that higher levels of dietary fatty acids are associated with 40 % higher odds of MASLD in women Additionally , higher levels of fatty acids in normal-weight individuals were linked to an 86 % higher chance of MASLD It is highly recommended to reduce intake of saturated fatty acids and trans fatty acids , which are associated with a lower risk of MASLD .
Bacterial extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are produced by both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria . These EVs are composed of lipid bilayers and various components derived from parent bacteria , including proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids . Previous studies have indicated the significant role of bacterial EVs in interactions between bacteria and between bacteria and hosts . Moreover , bacterial EVs are emerging as promising delivery vectors capable of transporting drug molecules over long distances to tissues . Therefore , understanding the biogenesis of bacterial EVs and how to regulate their production holds great importance for expanding their applications . In this review , we provide an overview of bacterial EVs , especially focusing on the distinct mechanisms of EVs biogenesis and the regulation of EVs production in both Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria . Additionally , we discuss various methods for cargos loading into bacteria EVs , as well as their diverse applications in vaccines , cancer therapy , and drug delivery . We anticipate that this review will advance the field of bacterial EVs , contributing to both the enhancement of existing applications and the emergence of novel applications . FAU - Huang , Chao
Lipoprotein lipase regulates triglyceride hydrolysis and contributes to cellular uptake of triglyceride-rich lipoprotein remnants . Multiple pathways modulate lipoprotein lipase activity , which has prompted interest in the development of drugs that increase lipoprotein lipase activity as means to reduce risk for acute pancreatitis , atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease , and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis through reduction of circulating triglycerides and remnant cholesterol . The authors provide an overview of the target populations for agents that lower triglycerides and remnant cholesterol through increased lipoprotein lipase activity , the drugs being developed for these indications , including apolipoprotein C-III and angiopoietin-like protein 3 , 3/8 , and 4 inhibitors , and the epidemiologic and genetic evidence supporting the use of these drugs for the prevention of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and acute pancreatitis . In addition , the authors provide a corresponding overview of fibroblast growth factor-21 analogues that share many characteristics with these novel triglyceride-lowering drugs . Apolipoprotein C-III inhibitors , angiopoietin-like protein 3 , 3/8 , and 4 inhibitors , and fibroblast growth factor-21 analogues have pronounced triglyceride-lowering and remnant cholesterol-lowering effects . In clinical trials , apolipoprotein C-III inhibitors have been shown to lower risk for acute pancreatitis in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia and are approved for this indication , while fibroblast growth factor-21 analogues reduce hepatic steatosis and fibrosis in patients with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis . It remains to be seen whether these novel drugs may lower risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease as well .
In this study , we prepared a series of composites with various chitosan-to-starch ratios by means of screw extrusion . The morphology and structural order of the composite were examined , and the fermentability was investigated through an in vitro human fecal fermentation model . Fourier transform infrared ( FTIR ) spectroscopy demonstrated the formation of hydrogen bonds between starch and chitosan in the composite , and X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) analysis indicated the structural order of the composite was enhanced with increasing chitosan proportions . The addition of chitosan slowed down the pH drop rate during the fermentation , and high chitosan proportion decreased the production of short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , especially butyrate . The final butyrate concentrations of the composite with chitosan to starch ratio of 1 : 6 ( CS : S = 1 : 6 , 97 mmol/g ) was almost twice that of the composite with chitosan to starch ratio of 2 : 1 ( CS : S = 2 : 1 , 51 mmol/g ) . Health-promoting microbes including Agathobacter , Prevotella_9 , Ruminococcus , and Bifidobacterium were obviously promoted by extruded starch . Moreover , the composite sample with chitosan to starch ratio of 1 : 6 ( CS : S = 1 : 6 ) exhibited a good synergistic effect in regulating the microbiota composition , reflected by the increase in the relative abundance of Agathobacter and Prevotella_ This finding demonstrated that the ratio of starch to chitosan might be a controlling factor in determining the fermentation properties of screw extruded composite .
The effects of amylose ( AM ) content ( AC ) and starch fine structures on the retrogradation and type 3 resistant starch ( RS3 ) formation were investigated using seven starches with various fine structures and ACs ranging from 27 % to 97 % . RS3 contents ranged from 9 % to 3 % , without a linear increase with AC . However , thermally stable RS3 contents obtained through reheating increased with AC before plateauing at 57 % , ranging from 3 % to 5 % . Retrograded amylopectin ( AP ) , AM-lipid complexes , and retrograded AM crystals were identified . Notably , as AC reached 57 % , a transition from AP to AM retrogradation was observed . Greater retrogradation degree and structural order induced higher RS Retrograded AP , AM-lipid complexes , and retrograded AM were likely composed of AP chains with degree of polymerization ( DP ) 13-24 , AM chains with DP 500-5000 , and short AM chains with DP < 500 , respectively . RS3 in these HASs comprised a mixture of double-helical and single-helical structures , with their levels likely enhanced by increasing amounts of AM chains with DP < 5000 and AP chains with DP > 36 , respectively . These findings provided insights into developing functional foods with desired retrogradation degree and RS3 by controlling AC and fine structures of AM and AP .
This study systematically evaluated the impact of different fatty acids ( LA , lauric acid ; MA , myristic acid ; PA , palmitic acid ; SA , stearic acid ; 5 % w/w ) with soybean isolate protein ( SPI , 10 % w/w ) on the structural and anti-retrogradation properties of mung bean starch gels . The results showed that fatty acids and SPI interacted with starch during the pasting process , disrupted the integrity network , reduced the order and viscoelasticity of the system , and depended on the length of carbon chains . Notably , under the emulsification of SPI , long-chain fatty acids ( e . g . , palmitic acid 33 % and stearic acid 57 % ) formed complexes with starch , significantly limiting their release . During 30 days of storage , SPI and fatty acids synergistically retained moisture ( e . g . , 18 % lower syneresis in ternary gels vs . control starch gels ) and reduced chromatic aberration ( DeltaE < 7 ) and hardness ( 06 g-07 g ) . This was favorable for maintaining the quality of the gelled food during its shelf life and promoted the precise application of fatty acids in the gel system .
Corneal injury is a major cause of inflammation , scarring , and even vision loss . The main treatment for corneal injury is local administration of eye drops . However , due to the limitation of the protective barrier of the eyes , conventional eye drops have the disadvantages of low bioavailability , high side effects , and limited efficacy . In this study , the anti-inflammatory agent dipotassium glycyrrhizate ( DG ) and the antifibrotic agent ginsenoside Rg3 were incorporated into a thermosensitive hydrogel in order to develop a multifunctional hybrid hydrogel eye drops ( RDTG ) for the synergistic treatment of corneal alkali burn . The hydrogel network was formed by thiolated chitosan and beta-glycerophosphate through both physical and chemical crosslinking . DG was distributed in free state in the hydrogel , while Rg3 was incorporated into the hydrogel in the form of liposomes . Furthermore , RDTG showed the characteristic of sequential drug-release . In vivo studies using a mouse model of corneal alkali burn have confirmed that RDTG could effectively reduce inflammation , promote corneal wound healing , and inhibit corneal scar . Therefore , the efficient delivery of RDTG eye drops provided a promising approach for the treatment of corneal alkali burn .
This study aimed to purify and characterize a polysaccharide from Euphorbia humifusa herb , which was identified for its lipid-lowering potential among 48 plant-derived polysaccharides , and to investigate its structure-activity relationship ( SAR ) using an oleic acid ( OA ) -induced L02 cell model . EPS-2B , a pectin with a molecular weight of 0 kDa , was isolated from the whole herb of E . humifusa . EPS-2B was comprised of rhamnose , galactose , arabinose , and galacturonic acid in a molar ratio of 73 : 96 : 75 : The structural analysis of EPS-2B revealed rhamnogalacturonan-I ( RG-I ) and homogalacturonan ( HG ) domains . The RG-I backbone consisted of -->4 ) -alpha-D-GalpA- ( 1-->2 ) -alpha-L-Rhap- ( 1--> , with branches of 1 , 3-Galp , 1 , 6-Galp , 1 , 3 , 6-Galp , T-Araf , 1 , 5-Araf , and T-Rhap attached to the C-4 of 1 , 2-alpha-Rhap . EPS-2B dose-dependently alleviated OA-induced lipid accumulation and oxidative stress in L02 cells , including reductions in total cholesterol , triglyceride , malondialdehyde , aspartate aminotransferase , and alanine aminotransferase levels , as well as an increase in superoxide dismutase activity . A high dose of EPS-2B ( 400 mug/mL ) reduced total cholesterol levels by 4 % and triglyceride levels by 0 % . SAR studies indicated that GalA was the active switch for lowering lipids and that a higher galactose content , an appropriate molecular weight , and arabinose removal favored lipid lowering . This work indicates that EPS-2B holds promise as a lipid-lowering drug .
OBJECTIVE : Many women experience high stress , anxiety or depression during pregnancy . The aim of this study was to determine the effect of aromatherapy with Citrus Aurantium essential oil on depression , stress and anxiety in pregnant women . MATERIALS AND METHODS : This randomized clinical trial included 68 pregnant women who were randomly assigned to either the intervention group where they received five drops of Citrus Aurantium essential oil or the control group where they received odorless sweet almond oil , both twice a day for one month in the form of facemasks which they inhaled through normal breathing for 20 min . The Depression , Anxiety , and Stress Scale-21 Items ( DASS-21 ) were administered pre-and post-intervention . Data analysis was performed within SPSS software ( version 24 ) . P-value<05 was considered statistically significant . RESULTS : The mean gestational age was 30 +/- 14 weeks in the control group and 43 +/- 95 weeks in the intervention group ( p = 089 ) . In bi-variable analysis , the intervention significantly improved all depression , anxiety and stress scores . Depression scores significantly decreased in the intervention group compared to the placebo group ( -80 +/- 22 vs . 03 +/- 90 ) ( p < 001 ) . Similarly , anxiety scores were reduced after the intervention ( -37 +/- 52 vs . 79 +/- 39 ) ( p < 001 ) . Although stress scores improved more in the intervention group compared to placebo group ( -77 +/- 94 vs . 39 +/- 99 ) , the difference was not statistically significant ( p = 166 ) . However , a more sophisticated analysis revealed that the intervention had a significant effect on depression ( p = 001 ) and anxiety ( p < 001 ) but not on stress ( p = 166 ) . CONCLUSION : Aromatherapy with Citrus Aurantium essential oil is effective and safe in reducing depression and anxiety in pregnant women . However , further research is needed to clarify its impact on stress reduction . TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER : IRCT20200512047414N
OBJECTIVE : The clinical efficacy of the combined usage of a dinoprostone vaginal insert ( DVI ) with mechanical cervical dilatation for the labor induction with poor cervical maturation has not been established . A retrospective observational study was conducted aiming to evaluate the efficacy of this approach on labor induction . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The clinical features of 71 pregnant women with Bishop score of 0-2 treated with DVI were analyzed to identify the clinical factors associated with the necessity for additional mechanical dilation after DVI use and whether DVI was removed due to labor progression . Further analysis was focused on the subgroup of 43 women who went through labor induction with DVI due to post-date pregnancy . The delivery outcome of DVI group was compared with the historical control group of 71 women who underwent mechanical dilatation without DVI due to post-date pregnancy . RESULTS : Among the 71 women treated with DVI , 38 did not require additional mechanical dilation and 24 had DVI removed after labor progressed . Lower pre-pregnancy body mass index was significantly associated with DVI efficacy . Whereas the success rate for vaginal delivery was comparable between Control group and DVI group , the time duration of uterotonics administration was shorter in DVI group than that in the Control group ( 9 h vs 2 h , p = 01 ) . CONCLUSION : Low BMI was a factor that facilitates the effectiveness of DVI . A cervical maturation approach using DVI in combination with a mechanical dilator reduced the time of uterotonics administration among populations with extremely poor cervical maturation .
Industrial printing inks are major sources of occupational exposure to volatile organic compounds ( VOCs ) with potential adverse effects . The behavioral , neurological , oxidative , hepatic , and kidney function effects of simulated occupational exposure to VOCs emitted from an industrial printing ink were investigated in laboratory mice , Mus musculus for 4 weeks . Average TVOCs value of 5 mg/m3 measured at 10 printing presses was the exposure level utilized in this study . There were significant duration-dependent and sex-disaggregated differences in the behavioral responses ; acetylcholinesterase ( neurological biomarker ) and MDA ( lipid peroxidation biomarker ) activities significantly increased while SOD and CAT ( antioxidants ) activities significantly decreased in the brain ; ALT , AST , and ALP ( liver ) as well as bilirubin , urea , and creatinine ( kidney ) were significantly elevated in exposed mice correlating with histopathologies compared to control . The results showed that long term inhalation of VOCs emitted from industrial printing inks may pose multiple sub-lethal effects in occupationally exposed persons , especially females . FAU - Nedozi , Ogugua I
BACKGROUND : Bile acids are essential molecules that facilitate lipid emulsification and function as signaling molecules mediating host-microbiota interactions . They shape the gut microbial structure and function , playing a critical role in metabolic regulation via the gut-liver axis . OBJECTIVES : This study aimed to investigate the effects of exogenous bile acids , primarily hyocholic acid ( HCA ) , on the microbiota-gut-liver metabolism in male Tan-lambs fed a high-grain diet . METHOD : Thirty six-month-old male Tan lambs ( Ovis aries ) were randomly allocated into either a control ( CON ) group or an HCA-supplemented group ( n = 15 per group ) . The trial lasted 84 days , including a 14-day adaptation period . On day 70 , six lambs from each group were randomly selected for slaughter . Rumen and ileal contents were collected for microbial profiling via 16S rRNA sequencing , and liver tissue samples were harvested for transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses . RESULTS : The HCA intervention significant altered the composition and structure of ruminal and ileal bacteria . Notable increases were observed in Turicibacter ( linear discriminant analysis ( LDA ) score = 48 ; P < 05 ) and Muribaculaceae ( LDA score = 75 ; P < 05 ) in the rumen , and Eubacterium fissicatena group ( LDA score = 50 ; P < 05 ) in the ileum . Key hepatic genes and metabolites targeted by HCA were identified , including ENPP3 , RFK , Ifi203 , LIPG , CYP1A1 , CYP4A11 , nordeoxycholic acid ( log-fold change = 30 , P < 005 ) , alpha-muricholic acid ( log-fold change = 60 , P < 001 ) , beta-muricholic acid ( log-fold change = 60 , P < 001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Exogenous bile acids regulate the microbiota-gut-liver axis , influencing hepatic glycolipid metabolism in sheep . Specifically , nordeoxycholic acid , demonstrates potential as a dietary intervention to promote metabolic homeostasis in ruminants . These findings highlight the potential of HCA and norDCA as functional feed additives or prebiotic agents for improving metabolic health in ruminants and potentially other species .
BACKGROUND : The 2019 European Society of Cardiology and European Association for the Study of Diabetes ( ESC/EASD ) recommendations classified cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk in diabetes mellitus ( DM ) patients . The assessment and stratification of CVD risk were essential for identifying individuals with a very high risk of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) and implementing glycemic control regimen with clear cardiovascular benefits . This research aim to evaluate the ratio of very high CV risk among patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( T1DM ) in mainland China . METHODS : This was a cross-sectional screening study from Jan 01 , 2020 to Dec 30 , Basic information such as disease duration , body mass index ( BMI ) , target organ damage ( including atherosclerotic heart disease , impaired renal function , left ventricular hypertrophy , and retinopathy ) were collected from outpatients by trained physicians . According to the 2019 ESC/EASD guidelines , we identify T1DM individuals with a " very high CVD risk " and others were categorized into the " else " group . RESULTS : A total of 38 , 260 participants from 1 , 669 hospitals in mainland China were enrolled from 2020 to 2022 , of which 81 % of T1DM patients were at very high CV risk category . The proportions of very high CVD risk in T1DM patients were highest in the Northeast region ( 70 % ) , followed by the Southwest region ( 99 % ) , and the Central region ( 41 % ) , while it was the lowest proportion in the Southern region ( 03 % ) . The proportion of very high CVD risk among T1DM patients increased with age and BMI , with 61 % in those under 35 years old , 57 % in those between 35 and 65 years old , and 80 % in those over 65 years old ( P < 0001 ) . Males and smokers showed an increased proportion of very high CVD risk in T1DM patients ( P < 0001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : This was the largest cross-sectional screening study to assess the CVD risk in T1DM patients in mainland China . The CVD risk among Chinese DM patients has reached a critical level which may necessitate the comprehensive strategies for the control and management of CV-related risk factors , such as blood pressure , BMI , and lipids in DM patients , to effectively reduce the incidence of CVD events and death .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is a prevalent and progressive liver disorder posing a global health challenge . Oroxylin A , a naturally occurring flavonoid , with a broad spectrum of pharmacological activities . This study aimed to explore the therapeutic potential of oroxylin A and unravel its molecular mechanisms in mitigating high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced NAFLD in murine models . Wild-type ( WT ) and nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 knockout ( Nrf2 ( -/- ) ) mice were administered a HFD to generate in vivo models , while free fatty acids-treated HepG2 cells served as the in vitro model . To investigate the effects of oroxylin A , serum and liver biochemical markers , hepatic histology , lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress were assessed in a NAFLD mouse model . The underlying mechanisms of oroxylin A were further explored through Western blotting , immunohistochemistry , and immunofluorescence analysis . Oroxylin A mitigated hepatic steatosis and injury by reducing liver index , AST , ALT , TG , and TC levels , improving histology , and restoring lipid metabolism . Glucose and insulin tolerance tests demonstrated improved glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity . Moreover , oroxylin A suppressed inflammation , apoptosis , and fibrosis , while enhancing antioxidant defenses , and improving mitochondrial function . Mechanistically , oroxylin A activated the Keap1/Nrf2/GPX4/SLC7A11 axis , upregulating Nrf2 and HO- These effects were abolished in Nrf2 ( -/- ) mice . In vitro results were consistent , and molecular docking , dynamics simulations , and CETSA confirmed its direct Keap1 binding . Oroxylin A protects against NAFLD by modulating the Nrf2 pathway , reducing oxidative stress and ferroptosis , making it a promising candidate for clinical NAFLD therapy .
Fatty acid desaturases are key enzymes that catalyze the desaturation of acyl lipid chains by regioselectively introducing double bonds into saturated or pre-existing alkene fatty acids to produce unsaturated fatty acids . While extensive studies have focused on desaturases in higher organisms , research on these enzymes in non-photosynthetic bacteria remains limited , largely due to insufficient structural and functional data . This review aims to summarize the current knowledge on the structural features and catalytic mechanisms of desaturases in non-photosynthetic bacteria , shedding light on the sophisticated regulatory strategies underlying unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis . In addition , factors influencing desaturase activity are presented and analyzed . This comprehensive review provides insights into bacterial homeostatic adaptation to environmental changes and highlights potential applications in nutraceutical development and therapeutic target identification .
A recent in vivo study investigated the impact of supersaturation , lipid chain length , and lipase- and precipitation inhibition on the oral absorption of cinnarizine from type I Lipid-based formulations ( LBFs ) . The aim of the current work was to investigate these formulations using the pH-stat lipolysis model , a well-established method for in vitro investigation of LBFs . This method allows the determination of the extent of lipolysis and of the drug distribution during lipolysis . The pH-stat experiment revealed that LBFs containing medium-chain triglycerides ( MCT ) were digested more than those containing long-chain triglycerides ( LCT ) . Notably , digestion decreased by at least 75 % in the presence of the lipase inhibitor orlistat . XRPD measurements indicated the presence of amorphous cinnarizine upon precipitation . No correlation was found between the drug concentration in the aqueous phase ( in vitro area under the curve ( AUC ) ) and the in vivo AUC ( R = 022 ) . However , when considering the drug concentration in the micellar phases , a stronger correlation was observed ( R = 17 ) , which further improved when only considering MCT-based formulations ( R = 85 ) . The poor correlation for LCT-based formulations could be attributed to their poor dispersibility in aqueous media . Overall , an acceptable correlation was found for MCT-based supersaturated formulations considering the drug concentration in the micellar phases . For potential improvement in predictability for supersaturated type I LBFs containing LCT , one will need to discuss whether the observed poor dispersibility in aqueous media is an artefact of the current lipolysis workflow .
Heat stress ( HS ) is a significant health concern that adversely affects both human and animal health , particularly impacting liver function due to its central metabolic role . This study investigated the mechanisms underlying HS-induced liver injury , focusing on the role of ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of cell death characterized by lipid peroxidation and cellular iron accumulation . Using mouse and cellular HS models , the results demonstrated that HS induced liver injury through ferroptosis , as evidenced by increased levels of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , oxidized glutathione ( GSSG ) , and iron , alongside decreased glutathione ( GSH ) and glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) expression . The ferroptosis inhibitor Ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) effectively mitigated HS-induced liver damage , reducing oxidative stress and restoring GPX4 levels . Furthermore , HS promoted the lysosomal degradation of GPX4 via the chaperone-mediated autophagy ( CMA ) pathway , which was regulated by heat shock cognate protein 70 ( HSC70 ) and lysosome-associated membrane protein 2A ( LAMP2A ) . Knockdown of LAMP2A in hepatocytes significantly suppressed HS-induced GPX4 degradation , confirming the critical role of CMA in this process . Inhibition of CMA using Apoptozole , an HSC70 inhibitor , or Bafilomycin A1 ( Baf-A1 ) , a lysosomal inhibitor , further attenuated HS-induced ferroptosis and liver injury . These findings highlight the critical role of CMA-mediated GPX4 degradation in HS-induced ferroptosis and liver injury , providing potential therapeutic targets for mitigating HS-related liver damage .
Although the American Academy of Pediatrics recommends universal lipid screening among children to find cases of familial hypercholesterolemia , such screening is rarely performed . We report the first clinical use of a novel machine learning model ( FIND FH ( R ) ) to identify youth at increased risk of familial hypercholesterolemia and results from associated outreach .
Retinopathy is a sight-threatening posterior eye disease involving microvascular complications . Diabetic retinopathy ( DR ) is the most prevalent form of this . Topical biologics ( anti-VEGFs ) have better therapeutic outcomes compared to steroids because of minimum adverse effects . However , only invasive methods have been approved , which are associated with serious issues related to patient compliance . Non-invasive administrations of anti-VEGFs have challenges , including stability and penetrability . Investigations on the use of cell-penetrating peptides as carriers for the delivery of biologics have shown encouraging results . Loading the polar biologics into the core of liposomes to capitalize on the lipidic nature and small size for retinal access has also received research attention . However , issues related to the controlled release of these topical biologics for continued retinal access need further attention . Despite the challenges of achieving controlled release in topical application of ocular biologics , there is scope to develop their gels or solid scaffolds . Targeting by capitalizing on membrane transporters of endogenous substances and nutrients has succeeded in brain and other tissue-specific delivery . Thus , there is scope to improve penetrability using a membrane transportation system , as the eye has diverse kinds of membrane transporters that uptake nutrients and endogenous substances .
Dyslipidemia is a major contributor to various diseases , including atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and obesity . Treatment strategies for dyslipidemia continue to evolve as our understanding of this metabolic disorder and potential therapeutic candidates advance . Notably , fucoidan demonstrates promising effects in ameliorating dyslipidemia in rodents , although their lipid metabolism differs significantly from humans . This study , investigates the lipid-regulatory effects of Fucus vesiculosus-derived fucoidan ( FvF ) and elucidates the underlying mechanisms of action using New Zealand rabbits fed a high-fat diet , whose lipid profiles closely resemble those of patients with dyslipidemia . The results demonstrate that FvF intervention ameliorates dyslipidemia and lipid deposition in a dose-dependent manner . Mechanistically , FvF intervention modulates the expression levels of multiple molecules involved in lipid transport , fatty acid synthesis and beta-oxidation , and redox balance , as revealed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction , western blotting , and proteomic analysis . This study is the first to report that FvF , consisting of alternating [-->4 ) -alpha-L-Fucp ( 1 --> 3 ) -alpha-L-Fucp ( 1-->] glycosyls ameliorates dyslipidemia by directly modulating lipid metabolism and indirectly attenuating oxidative stress . These findings suggest that FvF holds significant potential as a candidate for the treatment of lipid disorder-related diseases .
mRNA therapies have emerged as a transformative class of medicines , offering immense potential across a diverse array of applications . This progress has been particularly evident in the wake of the success of lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) -based mRNA vaccines during the COVID-19 pandemic . As these applications expand , the demand for sustained protein production has become increasingly critical . However , conventional mRNA therapies face significant challenges , including inherent RNA instability and suboptimal expression efficiency , often requiring repeated dosing to maintain therapeutic efficacy over time . This review highlights recent advances in strategies to prolong the therapeutic efficacy of LNP-mRNA systems . We focus on preclinical and emerging approaches aimed at extending the period of protein translation by engineering both the mRNA molecule and the LNP delivery system . Sustained protein expression is a cornerstone of mRNA-based therapeutics , and addressing this challenge is vital for unlocking their therapeutic potential . We hope this review provides valuable insights to guide the development of optimized delivery platforms for LNP-mRNA therapeutics .
OBJECTIVE : We previously identified tetraspanin 7 ( Tspan7 ) as a candidate gene influencing body weight in an obesity-related gene screening study . However , the mechanisms underlying its involvement in body weight regulation remained unclear . This study aims to investigate the role of TSPAN7 from a metabolic perspective . METHODS : We utilized genetically modified mice , including adipose tissue-specific Tspan7-knockout and Tspan7-overexpressing models , as well as human adipose-derived stem cells with TSPAN7 knockdown and overexpression . Morphological , molecular , and omics analyses , including proteomics and transcriptomics , were performed to investigate TSPAN7 function . Physiological effects were assessed by measuring blood markers associated with lipid regulation under metabolic challenges , such as high-fat feeding and aging . RESULTS : We show that TSPAN7 is involved in regulating lipid droplet formation and stabilization . Tspan7-knockout mice exhibited an increased proportion of small-sized adipocytes and a reduced visceral-to-subcutaneous fat ratio . This shift in fat distribution was associated with improved insulin sensitivity and altered branched-chain amino acid metabolism , as evidenced by increased expression of the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex subunit B in Tspan7-modified mice . Mechanistically , TSPAN7 deficiency promoted subcutaneous fat expansion , alleviating metabolic stress on visceral fat , a major contributor to insulin resistance . CONCLUSIONS : TSPAN7 influences lipid metabolism by modulating adipose tissue remodeling , particularly under metabolic challenges , such as high-fat diet exposure and aging . Its modulation enhances subcutaneous fat storage capacity while mitigating visceral fat accumulation , leading to improved insulin sensitivity . These findings position TSPAN7 as a potential target for therapeutic interventions aimed at improving metabolic health and preventing obesity-related diseases .
MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) , a class of non-coding RNAs , are pivotal post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression with profound implications in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis ( AS ) . As a progressive arterial disease driven by vascular cells dysfunction , lipid dysregulation and subsequent chronic inflammation , AS remains a leading cause of global morbidity . Recent studies have demonstrated how important miRNAs are in regulating central biological processes in the vascular wall , such as endothelial function , vascular smooth muscle cell ( VSMC ) phenotypic switching , and macrophage polarization . This review provides comprehensive insight into the role of miRNAs in the development and complexity of atherosclerotic plaques according to their effects on endothelial cells , macrophages , and VSMCs . We also go over the growing prospects of miRNAs as therapeutic targets and diagnostic biomarkers , providing information to be used in the study of vascular diseases . Lastly , we address recent complications and potential applications of miRNA-based approaches in clinical practice .
BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE : The endocannabinoid system is a key regulator of metabolism , sparking interest in cannabinoid type 1 receptor ( CB1R ) antagonists as potential treatments for obesity and related conditions collectively called metabolic syndrome disorders . However , the neuropsychiatric liabilities associated with centrally acting CB1R antagonists led researchers to focus on developing peripherally restricted compounds that do not cross the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) . This study aimed to synthesize and evaluate novel CB1R antagonists based on tetrahydropyridazine core incorporating physicochemical design principles that would allow for negligible BBB penetration . The efficacy of the compounds was assessed in rodent models of diet induced obesity and diabetes . EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH : In this study , we employed a rational-design approach along with structure-based modeling to develop small-molecule CB1R antagonists that are peripherally acting . Pharmacological profiles of two racemic compounds PB19A and PB95 were evaluated in cannabinoid receptor binding studies , and functional [S]-GTPgammaS assays . Further chiral separation of enantiomers allowed for the evaluation of respective eutomers in in vitro ADME studies along with in vivo pharmacokinetic and tissue distribution studies in mice . The results showed that the compounds are orally bioavailable and had negligible brain penetrance . The design features also incorporated putative amidine moieties which inhibit the pro-inflammatory enzyme ; inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) . Both biochemical and in vitro cell-based assays showed the CB1R antagonists having iNOS inhibitor properties . In vivo CB1R functional antagonism was assessed by upper gastrointestinal motility assay . The efficacy of our CB1R antagonists was compared with brain penetrant ibipinabant in a diet-induced obesity mouse model , assessing effects on lipid metabolism biomarkers , food intake , body weight reduction , glucose tolerance and insulin resistance . KEY RESULTS : Novel compounds PB19AE2 and PB95E2 were designed and evaluated as peripherally restricted CB1R antagonists . In high fat diet fed mice , these compounds improved metabolic parameters , modestly reduced food intake , and ameliorated hepatic lipid metabolism markers . CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS : Overall , PB19AE2 and PB95E2 are orally bioavailable , peripherally acting CB1 antagonists and their preliminary evaluation show promising potential in utilizing the pyridazine-based compounds for generating potent leads for treating obesity- associated disorders .
PURPOSE : Ultraviolet B ( UVB ) irradiation induces cataract pathogenesis , and Glutaredoxin 2 ( Grx2 ) deficiency causes the early onset of UVB-induced cataracts . Several researchers have shown that , apart from apoptosis and pyroptosis , UVB irradiation also can induce cell ferroptosis . We explored the role of ferroptosis caused by UVB irradiation in human lens epithelial cells ( HLECs ) and clarified how Grx2 protects against UVB-induced cataracts . METHODS : HLE-B3 cells and mice lenses were treated with DMSO or ferroptosis inhibitors after various doses of UVB irradiation . Cell morphology and ultrastructure were observed by optical microscope and transmission electron microscopy . Lens opacity was observed ex vivo using an optical microscope and in vivo using a slit lamp . The lipid peroxidation level was measured by C11-BODIPY probe and 4-HNE ( the lipid peroxidation marker ) protein expression . Cell viability was determined using the CCK-8 kit and propodium iodide ( PI ) immunofluorescence . Grx2 KO and KI mice , Grx2 silencing and Grx2 overexpression in HLE-B3 cell lines were used for in vivo and in vitro experiments respectively . RESULTS : UVB-caused HLE-B3 cells death , lens opacity and lipid peroxidation could be mitigated by ferroptosis inhibitors . Grx2 KO mice accelerate the appearance of lens opacity induced by UVB . Meanwhile , Grx2 silencing enhanced HLECs lipid peroxidation susceptibility , downregulated the GSH level , shrunk mitochondria , and reduced the number of cristae . Grx2 overexpression had opposite effects . CONCLUSIONS : Ferroptosis appears involved in UVB-induced HLECs damage . Inhibiting ferroptosis prevented UVB-induced cataracts . Grx2 strengthens resistance to ferroptosis induced by UVB irradiation through maintaining HLEC cellular GSH/GSSG homeostasis .
This study investigated the effects of automated short-term incomplete milking ( IM ) during peak- to mid-lactation on milk production , udder health , and selected metabolic parameters in multiparous Holstein cows . Forty-six cows ( 94 +/- 47 DIM ) were randomly assigned to the complete milking treatment ( COMP ; n = 23 , 95 +/- 49 DIM , lactation number 0 +/- 3 ) or the incomplete milking treatment ( INCL ; n = 23 , 93 +/- 46 DIM , lactation number 6 +/- 8 ) . In INCL cows , IM was implemented using specialized software that precisely controlled milk withdrawal . Concentrate allocation was dynamically adjusted based on milk yield and DIM via transponder-controlled stations . All cows had ad libitum access to a partial mixed ration and water via automated weighing troughs and bowls . The IM protocol included a gradual reduction phase ( first IM phase : 9% daily reduction to approximately 40% over 5 d ) , followed by 3 complete milkings , and a constant reduction phase ( second IM phase : 40% reduction over 5 d ) . No clinical signs of mastitis , as well as negative bacteriological results , were observed , confirming udder health . In the week prior to IM , milk yield ( reference milk yield , REF ) did not differ between treatments , with INCL cows achieving between 26 and 59 kg/d . Compared to REF , the milk yield of the INCL cows decreased by 19% ( 7 +/- 54 kg/d ) on the first day after the first IM phase and by 24% ( 7 +/- 54 kg/d ) on the first day after the second IM phase . After cessation of IM , milk yield increased again by 19% within 2 wk and stabilized further at the REF level . Compared to the COMP cows , milk fat content of the INCL cows decreased by 21% and 43% with the onset of the first and second IM phases . Concentrate intake of INCL cows decreased by 65% from 4 +/- 52 kg/d at the beginning of IM to 9 +/- 39 kg/d at the end of IM due to the feed-to-yield feeding system , reflecting lower energy requirements , and increased thereafter . Udder health indicators remained stable during IM . In the INCL cows that completed the trial , SCC remained consistently below mastitis thresholds and no relevant pathogens were detected . Milk leakage occurred exclusively in INCL cows during IM , but did not compromise udder health . Serum nonesterified fatty acid concentrations decreased by 63% and 58% during the first IM and second IM phases , respectively , indicating reduced lipid mobilization . Concurrently , IGF-1 concentrations increased by 30% and 28% during the respective phases , indicating metabolic adaptations to the reduced energy demand . In summary , automated short-term IM performed on dairy cows in peak- to mid-lactation using specialized software was successful in temporarily reducing milk production and lactation-induced metabolic load without negatively affecting udder health or long-term performance .
Esophageal cancer , a highly malignant tumor with poor prognosis , is characterized by the presence of cancer stem cells ( CSCs ) that drive tumor initiation , metastasis , and recurrence . This study investigates the molecular mechanism by which glucose transporter 1 ( GLUT1 ) maintains esophageal CSC-like properties through regulation of autophagy-dependent ferroptosis via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) . Using shRNA to knock down GLUT1 or EGFR and constructing a GLUT1 overexpression vector in KYSE520 cells , we employed western blotting , qRT-PCR , flow cytometry , sphere formation , Transwell assays , and xenograft models to assess stemness markers ( NANOG , OCT4 , SOX2 ) , autophagic flux ( LC3B , P62 , Beclin1 ) , and ferroptosis-related parameters ( ROS , Fe ( 2+ ) , GSH , GPX4 , COX2 ) . Mechanistic analyses included co-immunoprecipitation to validate the GLUT1-EGFR interaction , chloroquine to inhibit autophagy , and cycloheximide/MG132 to evaluate EGFR protein stability . Results showed that GLUT1 depletion reduced CSC marker expression , increased ROS and Fe ( 2+ ) levels , depleted GSH , and induced lipid peroxidation , sensitizing cells to ferroptosis while activating autophagy ( elevated LC3 II/I , Beclin1 ; reduced P62 ) ; autophagy inhibition exacerbated cell death , indicating a protective role for autophagy in this context . GLUT1 directly bound to EGFR , stabilizing the receptor by blocking ubiquitin-proteasome-mediated degradation , whereas EGFR knockdown enhanced autophagic flux and reversed GLUT1-overexpression-induced ferroptosis resistance and stemness maintenance . In vivo , GLUT1 knockdown suppressed tumor growth and lung metastasis , and clinical samples revealed a positive correlation between GLUT1 and EGFR expression , linked to advanced TNM stages and poor survival . Collectively , these findings demonstrate that GLUT1 preserves esophageal CSC-like characteristics by stabilizing EGFR to inhibit autophagy-dependent ferroptosis , highlighting targeting GLUT1 as a potential therapeutic strategy to eliminate CSCs and combat esophageal cancer progression .
Vibrio parahaemolyticus was a foodborne pathogen that commonly found in seafood products and seriously threatened human food safety . Biofilm played a vital role in the resistance of V . parahaemolyticus , and the relationship between efflux pump encode gene vmeB and biofilm formation of V . parahaemolyticus remained poorly understood . In this study , the ATCC33846DeltavmeB deletion strain and DeltavmeB/pBAD33T-vmeB complement strain were constructed to reveal the mechanism that RND efflux pump vmeB gene regulated the biofilm of V . parahaemolyticus-mediated enrofloxacin resistance . The biofilm formation , motility and transcription levels related to outer membrane genes ( ompA , ompH , ompN , ompU , ompV , ompW , ompX ) , flagella genes ( fliA , fliC , fliS ) and pilus genes ( pilO , pilP ) were explored . The results indicated that biofilm formation potential and motility were significantly decreased , the transcription levels of genes associated with the outer membrane , flagella , and pilus genes were significantly reduced in ATCC33846DeltavmeB . Additionally , Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ( FTIR ) results demonstrated DNA integrity was compromised , protein structure was disrupted , and membrane lipid content was elevated in ATCC33846DeltavmeB . Meanwhile , ATCC33846DeltavmeB cells were observed to be damaged by scanning electron microscopy , and the flow cytometry analysis demonstrated a significant increase in cell apoptosis rate . Finally , the drug resistance results exhibited that the sensitivity of ATCC33846DeltavmeB to enrofloxacin is fivefold lower compared to ATCC These results elucidate the drug resistance mechanism of vmeB regulates V . parahaemolyticus ATCC33846 biofilm , potentially providing new opportunities to develop inhibitors that specifically alter the characteristics of the biofilm matrix and thereby affect the enrofloxacin resistance of V . parahaemolyticus .
Paeonia lactiflora is an important garden ornamental flower and has become a new cut flower in the international market in recent years . Stem mechanical strength is an important index of cut flower quality . P . lactiflora cultivars possess varying stem mechanical strength , which directly result in different cut P . lactiflora quality . In our previous study , a significant difference in phloem callose deposition was detected between two P . lactiflora cultivars with varying stem mechanical strength . However , the relationship and interaction mechanism between the phloem callose and mechanical strength in P . lactiflora stems are still unclear . This study aimed to analyze the effects of reduced phloem callose on the mechanical strength in P . lactiflora stems . The results revealed a negative correlation between the callose content and mechanical strength in P . lactiflora stems during early developmental stages . Exogenous 2DDG treatment led to a 6 % reduction in the callose content , concomitantly enhancing the stem mechanical strength by 2 % via facilitating the formation and secondary cell wall ( SCW ) thickening of xylem fiber cells . Further investigations showed that exogenous 2DDG treatment promoted carbon transport in P . lactiflora stems , thereby increasing the carbon content . Additionally , it induced alterations in the metabolism of lipids , amino acids , and organic acids in the stems and spurred the diffusion of lipids from the pith to the xylem . Consequently , reducing the content of callose improved the formation and SCW thickening of xylem fiber cells by modifying material transport and metabolism , thereby enhancing the stem mechanical strength of P . lactiflora . This study offers novel perspectives regarding the regulatory mechanism of P . lactiflora stem mechanical strength .
Building up on previous publications for type I , II , IIIa , and IIIb Lipid-based formulations ( LBFs ) , the supersaturation potential for cinnarizine in type IV LBFs and the effect of supersaturation , lipid digestion , and precipitation inhibition in vivo was investigated . The supersaturation potential for cinnarizine-loaded type IV LBFs was high and this was investigated in vivo in rats . Supersaturated LBFs tended to show higher drug exposures in vivo than their non-supersaturated counterparts ( 22 - 92 % increase in AUC ( 0-24h ) , not dose-normalized ) , but this was only statistically significant for the formulation containing a precipitation inhibitor under lipase-inhibited conditions , so the overall impact was limited . Soluplus ( R ) as a precipitation inhibitor did not increase drug exposure in general , even though the administered cinnarizine dose was higher for the supersaturated formulations . Lipase inhibition had no impact on cinnarizine absorption , indicating no increased precipitation during digestion . The results were in line with previous findings from type IIIb LBFs that revealed that the digestion process was less important for drug absorption from hydrophilic types of LBFs as opposed to the more lipophilic type I- and II systems .
This study explored how propylene glycol ( PG ) , menthol : thymol deep eutectic solvent ( DES , molar ratio 6 : 4 ) , and PG : DES blends modulate drug permeation by impacting the stratum corneum ( SC ) . Porcine SC samples were exposed to PG , DES , and PG : DES blends with varying PG content ( 10% , 50% , or 90% ) . The impact of these formulations on SC lipid extraction , lipid arrangement , and keratin ' s secondary structure were analyzed using attenuated total reflectance Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy . PG : DES blends with 10% or 50% PG extracted more SC lipids than pure DES , while pure PG extracted fewer lipids . The formulations also slightly loosened the lipid packing . PG and PG : DES blends promoted the transition of keratin ' s secondary structure from alpha-helix to beta-sheet . Changes in SC lipid and protein molecular mobility in the presence of the formulations were examined with C magic-angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy . DES significantly increased lipid and protein mobility , while PG had minimal effects . The impact of PG : DES blends on SC mobility depended on DES content , with more DES causing stronger mobility increase . The amount of clotrimazole permeated through the skin correlated with higher beta-sheet keratin fractions , suggesting PG in corneocytes facilitates drug permeation via the intracellular route . Small amounts of DES in blends further enhanced drug and PG passage through intercellular lipids , likely by altering their packing and mobility . In conclusion , the enhanced clotrimazole permeation in PG : DES blends compared to pure PG or DES likely results from PG ' s action on corneocytes and DES ' s effect on the lipid matrix .
Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are lipid bilayer-enclosed particles carrying bioactive cargo , including nucleic acids , proteins , and lipids , facilitating intercellular and interorgan communication . In addition to traditional mediators such as hormones , metabolites , and cytokines , increasing evidence suggests that EVs are key modulators in various physiological and pathological processes , particularly influencing metabolic homeostasis and contributing to the progression of cardiometabolic diseases . This review provides an overview of the most recent insights into EV-mediated mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of obesity , insulin resistance , diabetes mellitus , steatotic liver disease , atherosclerosis , and cardiovascular disease . EVs play a critical role in modulating insulin sensitivity , glucose homeostasis , systemic inflammation , and vascular health by transferring functional molecules to target cells . Understanding the EV-mediated network offers potential for identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets , providing opportunities for EV-based interventions in cardiometabolic disease management . Although many challenges remain , this evolving field highlights the need for further research into EV biology and its translational applications in cardiovascular and metabolic health . FAU - Lee , Joonyub
Long-term consumption of diets high in fats has detrimental impacts on the immune system , but the window necessary for initiating these effects is unclear . In this issue of Immunity , Xiong et al . demonstrate that even short-term exposure to saturated fats impairs ILC3 function and renders the intestine vulnerable to inflammation and injury .
The feed utilisation rate is a key factor that affects the economic benefits of meat-type duck breeding . In recent years , residual feed intake ( RFI ) has been routinely used in poultry breeding as an index for evaluating feed utilisation . However , the genetic mechanism underlying RFI in meat-type ducks remains poorly understood . In the present study , 1 000 meat-type ducks with similar BW were randomly selected to measure BW gain and feed intake from 21 to 42 d of age to assess RFI . Six high- and six low-RFI meat-type ducks were randomly selected for a transcriptome survey of livers . Protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network and gene set enrichment ( GSEA ) analyses were used to elucidate the molecular basis of RFI . We identified 1 297 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) in the LRFI group , of which 686 and 611 were markedly up- and downregulated , respectively . Functional annotation showed that DEGs were mainly enriched in gene ontology terms related to the regulation of biosynthetic and metabolic processes . Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes ( KEGG ) pathway analysis showed significant enrichment of insulin signalling and multiple pathways related to energy metabolism . Furthermore , the PPI network analysis revealed that PRKACB , PRKAR2A , FYN , PTK2 , ITGB1 , ESR1 , and PIK3CB were primarily related to the biological processes of lipid metabolism , glucose transport , and immunological stress and may affect RFI . Moreover , the GSEA suggested that upregulated genes in the LRFI group were associated with immune , lipid transport , and insulin signalling . ACLY and SLC50A1 were the most markedly upregulated and downregulated DEGs , respectively . In the PPI network , PRKACB , PRKAR2A , and FYN were identified as pivot genes . The aforementioned DEGs were mainly involved in lipid and glucose metabolism and inflammatory response , consistent with the KEGG and GSEA results . Therefore , these results revealed PRKACB , PRKAR2A , and FYN as potentially key genes for improving feed efficiency traits in meat-type ducks . Our results provide insights into the biological basis of RFI in meat-type ducks and will be useful for the selection of meat-type ducks with a greater feed efficiency phenotype in future breeding programmes .
The bacterium Coxiella burnetii causes Q-Fever in humans and coxiellosis in animals . This work presents a robust , sensitive and selective method for the identification of two unique sugars found in the lipopolysaccharide of C . burnetii . The sugars were derivatised using alditol acetylation and identified using high performance liquid chromatography coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry . Virenose and dihydrohydroxystreptose were observed to be only partially acetylated during derivatisation and this was found to be valuable for the identification of these sugars in the absence of commercial standards . This sensitive methods can be applied in diagnostic fields and help to further characterise the cell-wall lipopolysaccharide of C . burnetii .
Cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitors ( CDK4/6i ) have reshaped the treatment paradigm of hormone receptor positive ( HR + ) /HER2-negative breast cancer in both adjuvant and metastatic settings . However , their metabolism via the cytochrome P450 ( CYP3A4 ) pathway poses a high risk of clinically relevant drug-drug interactions ( DDIs ) , requiring vigilant therapeutic strategies . This review provides a comprehensive analysis of the pharmacokinetics , metabolism , and interaction profiles of palbociclib , ribociclib , and abemaciclib , emphasizing their differential DDI risks . Among these agents , ribociclib has been associated with a higher risk of QTc prolongation and CYP3A4-mediated interactions in some studies , whereas abemaciclib demonstrates a relatively favorable DDI profile . However , data remain limited and are largely derived from indirect comparisons or pharmacovigilance analyses . We further examine the clinical implications of drug-drug interactions with frequently co-prescribed agents , including proton pump inhibitors , antifungal medications , anticoagulants , and lipid-lowering therapies . Practical recommendations regarding drug selection , therapeutic drug monitoring , and dose adjustment are discussed with attention to the individual characteristics of each CDK4/6i . Dose modifications and monitoring in patients with renal or hepatic impairment are also discussed . Emerging pharmacogenomic data suggest that genetic polymorphisms in CYP3A4 and ABCG2 influence drug exposure and toxicity , reinforcing the need for personalized treatment approaches . As the use of CDK4/6i expands across different breast cancer settings , addressing DDIs through precision medicine strategies such as pharmacogenomic profiling , physiologically based pharmacokinetic modeling , and artificial intelligence-guided clinical support will be essential to personalize therapy and optimize safety .
BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES : Hypertriglyceridaemia ( HTG ) is an independent risk factor for small fibre neuropathy in patients with type 1 , type 2 diabetes , and obesity . This study assessed for evidence of small nerve fibre damage and cardiac autonomic dysfunction in individuals with HTG , without diabetes . METHODS : Participants with HTG ( n=60 ) and age and sex-matched controls ( n=31 ) underwent assessment of the lipid profile , neuropathic symptoms and disability , corneal confocal microscopy ( CCM ) and cardiac autonomic nerve function tests . RESULTS : Triglyceride ( TG ) concentration was significantly higher [0 ( 6-7 ) vs 1 ( 7-4 ) mmol/L , p < 001] , and HDL-C [9 ( 7-2 ) vs 5 ( 3-8 ) mmol/L , p < 001 ) was lower in the HTG group . The Neuropathy Symptom Profile score [2 ( 0-5 ) vs 0 , p < 001] , Neuropathy Disability Score [2 ( 0-3 ) vs 0 , p < 001] and vibration perception threshold [9 ( 5-5 ) vs 0 ( 0-0 ) volts , p < 001] were higher , whilst corneal nerve fibre density ( CNFD ) [9 ( 9 ) vs 1 ( 2 ) no . /mm , p < 001] , corneal nerve branch density ( CNBD ) [0 ( 4-5 ) vs 1 ( 2-5 ) no . /mm , p < 001] , corneal nerve fibre length ( CNFL ) [8 ( 8 ) vs 0 ( 2 ) mm/mm , p < 001] , deep breathing heart rate variability ( DB-HRV ) [18 ( 13-20 ) vs 25 ( 20-30 ) beats/min , p < 001] , E-I ratio [13 ( 09-20 ) vs 25 ( 18-31 ) , p < 001] , valsalva ratio [29 ( 18-49 ) vs . 47 ( 28-59 ) , p = 01] and 30-15 ratio [24 ( 16-36 ) vs . 40 ( 27-49 ) , p = 002] were lower in the HTG group compared to controls . Serum TG concentration correlated negatively with CCM parameters and cardiac autonomic function tests . CONCLUSION : HTG , independent of diabetes , is associated with signs and symptoms of neuropathy , small nerve fibre damage and cardiac autonomic dysfunction .
Cardiovascular disease remains the leading cause of death worldwide , with atherosclerosis ( AS ) serving as a critical underlying pathological process and major risk factor . Regular physical exercise is widely recognized as an effective strategy to reduce the risks and severity of AS , yet the precise molecular mechanisms through which exercise exerts its protective effects are still not fully understood . MicroRNAs ( miRNAs ) , key regulators of gene expression , play integral roles in the progression of AS by influencing vascular function , lipid metabolism , and inflammation . The exercise-induced improvement of AS is a complex process , with miRNAs playing essential roles not only within cells and tissues but also circulating stably in the bloodstream as novel signaling molecules . These circulating miRNAs mediate communication between organs and tissues , acting as potential biomarkers that could provide deeper , systemic insights into the metabolic benefits of exercise . In this review , we explore recent advancements in our understanding of how exercise affects both intracellular and circulating miRNAs . We emphasize how exercise-regulated miRNAs contribute to endothelial function , promote lipid metabolism across various metabolic organs , and reduce monocyte-mediated systemic inflammation , while also addressing their role in alleviating frailty . Circulating miRNAs , which dynamically reflect tissue-specific responses to exercise , hold great promise as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers for AS . Moreover , we discuss the challenges and future directions in this field , aiming to uncover how exercise-induced miRNA modulation could offer innovative therapeutic strategies for the prevention and treatment of AS .
This study investigated the succession of metabolites and microorganisms during vinasse grass carp fermentation and their relationships . A total of 160 volatile compounds ( VCs ) were identified , among which 17 were recognized as key VCs ( OAV > 1 and VIP > 1 ) , including ethyl hexanoate , isopentyl hexanoate , ethyl palmitate , ethyl linoleate , ethyl oleate , ethyl stearate , eugenol , methionol , phenylethyl alcohol , 4-methyl-5-thiazoleethanol , isoamyl alcohol , 1-octen-3-ol , 2 , 3-butanedione , hexanal , ( E ) -2-octenal , nonanal , and beta-caryophyllene . Significant differences in microbial community composition were observed throughout fermentation . Driven by moisture content , reducing sugar , and total acidity , Staphylococcus and Saccharomyces remained dominant microbial , Macrococcus and Rhizopus decreased , while Lactobacillus , Bacteroides , Wickerhamomyces , and Aspergillus gradually increased as fermentation processed . Metabolic analysis revealed that microbiota affect vinasse fish flavor by regulating lipid , carbohydrate , and amino acid metabolism , particularly alpha-linolenic acid and arachidonic acid metabolic pathways during early-to-mid fermentation stages . This study offers a theoretical foundation for targeted flavor regulation in vinasse fish .
The purpose of this overview is to : . Describe the clinical characteristics of Parkinson disease ; . Review monogenic causes of Parkinson disease ; . Review the differential diagnosis of monogenic Parkinson disease ; . Provide an evaluation strategy to identify the cause of monogenic Parkinson disease in a proband ; . Provide information on targeted therapeutic clinical trials for Parkinson disease ; . Inform genetic counseling for family members of an individual with monogenic Parkinson disease .
Despite the widespread presence of polyethylene terephthalate microplastics ( PET MPs ) in the environment , their biotoxicity , target organs , and underlying toxicological mechanism remain poorly understood . In this study , irregularly shaped PET MPs resembling those commonly found in natural environment were selected . Mice were orally administered different amounts of PET MPs ( 0 , 5 , 50 , and 500 mug/day ) for 17 weeks , after which relevant pathological and biochemical indicators were assessed . The results confirmed , for the first time , that PET MPs can induce oxidative stress , lipid accumulation , and apoptosis in liver cells , resulting in structural damage and functional abnormalities in the liver . Additionally , metabolomic analysis was combined with intestinal microbiota profiling to elucidate the potential toxicological mechanism . The data revealed that chronic exposure to high doses of PET MPs substantially altered the diversity of the intestinal flora . In particular , the relative abundances of Parasutterella , Muribaculum , and Turicibacter increased , accompanied by elevated levels of lipid metabolites such as linoleic acid , taurocholic acid , and sphingosine . These changes disrupted metabolic processes and accelerated lipid deposition in the mouse liver , thereby inducing hepatotoxicity . Moreover , a validation experiment confirmed that depletion of the gut microbiota in mice alleviated PET MPs-induced hepatotoxicity . These findings provide new insights into the toxicity of PET MPs in humans and other mammals .
Fledgling broiler ducks vary in body weight and growth rate . The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between serum metabolites and the intestinal microbiota in Cherry Valley broiler ducks with different finishing weights and to reveal differences in their metabolic regulation and microbial composition . Serum and cecum content samples were collected from Cherry Valley broiler ducks of different finishing weights . Metabolites were identified and compared using untargeted metabolomics , 16S rRNA gene sequencing , multivariate statistics and bioinformatics . Six key findings emerged . First , serum biochemical parameters showed that AST and ALT levels were significantly lower in the high weight group ( Group H ) than in the low weight group ( Group L ) , and serum immunoglobulin IgG levels were significantly higher in group H . Second , the chorionic height to crypt depth ratio of the duodenum was significantly higher in group H than in group L . Third , the gut microbial community diversity or abundance was lower in broiler ducks in group L . Fourth , LEfSe analysis showed that the biomarker for group L was Streptococcus , whereas for group H it was Faecalibacterium . Fifth , a total of 127 differential metabolites were identified ( 49 up-regulated and 78 down-regulated ) . Finally , Spearman ' s correlation analysis showed that Spearman ' s correlation analyses showed that the Lipid-related serum metabolites were higher in low-body recombinant broiler ducks , mainly Lathosterol , Cholesterol , Cynaratriol and Leukotriene B In addition to lipid-associated serum metabolites in high-body recombination , The water-soluble vitamin-like metabolite Pantothenate and the antibiotic-like metabolite Tylosin were high . The cecum microbiota is strongly associated with metabolites , especially Faecalibacterium , unclassified Tannerellaceae , Subdoligranulum , Alistipes , and [Ruminococcus] torques_group , with which it exhibits strong Correlation . Broiler ducks with higher body weights have a better intestinal villous structure , enhanced digestion and absorption , higher levels of immunoglobulin secretion and superior growth performance . Broiler ducks with different body weights differed in plasma metabolites and cecum flora . Spearman ' s correlation analyses showed that the Correlation between differential metabolites and differential gut microbial genera .
CONTEXT : Continuous energy restriction ( CER ) and intermittent fasting ( IF ) are both prevalent diet regimens recommended for weight loss and metabolic improvement . OBJECTIVE : The objective of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of CER and IF on weight loss and metabolic improvement in adults with overweight , obesity , or metabolic abnormalities . DATA SOURCES : PubMed , Embase , and the Cochrane Library ( CENTRAL ) were searched for randomized controlled trials of 3 degrees of CER diet regimens and 4 categories of IF diet regimens , from inception of the databases to December DATA EXTRACTION : Two reviewers independently extracted demographic information , the intervention duration , details of the dietary interventions , and data on the outcomes of interest . DATA ANALYSIS : Bayesian random-effect network meta-analyses were used to pool the results and the Grading of Recommendations , Assessment , Development , and Evaluation framework was used to assess the certainty of the evidence and to present the findings . RESULTS : The study included 167 eligible trials with a total enrollment of 11 998 participants . Most IF diet regimens induced significant weight loss that was comparable with that induced by CER diet regimens with a similar absolute energy restriction , based on low- to high-certainty evidence . Severe CER proved to be the most effective regimen for obtaining weight loss , based on moderate-certainty evidence ( mean difference of weight change 50 kg [95% CI 07 to 93] ) , followed by alternate-day fasting , based on high-certainty evidence ( mean difference of weight change ( 07 kg [95% CI 44 to 72] ) and moderate CER , based on moderate-certainty evidence ( 09 kg [95% CI 26 to 93] ) , when the regimens being compared were consistent in their absolute energy restriction extent . Similar results were noticed for body measurements , blood pressure , blood lipids , and glycemic profiles . In the subgroup analysis , the weight-loss effects of the IF but not the CER diet regimens experienced rebound after 12 weeks . CONCLUSION : In adults with overweight , obesity , or metabolic abnormalities , effectiveness in weight loss mainly depends on the extent of the energy restriction , regardless of the mealtime patterns . SYSTEMATIC REVIEW REGISTRATION : PROSPERO registration no . CRD
OBJECTIVE : Aim : To determine the features of hepatic lipid metabolism disorders and intestinal dysbiotic changes in patients with acne vulgaris and metabolic dysfunction- associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Materials and Methods : The study included 109 patients : 59 with a combination of acne vulgaris and MASLD and 50 with acne only . RESULTS : Results : It was found that patients with acne and MASLD are more likely to be overweight and have more pronounced changes in hepatic lipid metabolism . Also , patients with combined pathology showed a decrease in the number of the colonic normoflora , as well as an increase in the number of hemolytic forms of E . coli , Enterobacter , Citrobacter , Staphylococcus , Klebsiella , Clostridium , Proteus , Candida spp . CONCLUSION : Conclusions : Our study highlighted that lipid profile determination and anthropometric examination are important factors in the diagnosis of patients with common acne and MASLD . Our data on changes in the composition of the colonic microflora in patients with comorbidities confirmed the existence of a relationship between the presence of intestinal dysbacteriosis and impaired skin homeostasis . FAU - Smolanka , Iryna
OBJECTIVE : Aim : To assess the correlation between lipoprotein ( a ) levels and traditional lipid profile markers in statin-naive men and women without established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease . PATIENTS AND METHODS : Materials and Methods : Sixty-seven statin-naive adult patients without a prior history of established atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease were included in the study . Lipoprotein ( a ) levels were determined using nephelometry in all patients . RESULTS : Results : According to the results of the correlation analysis , it was found that there is no statistically significant correlation between lipoprotein ( a ) level and traditional parametres of lipid profile in both groups ( p>05 ) . Reliable direct correlation of moderate strength was observed between lipoprotein ( a ) and age in the group A ( R=46 , p=04 ) . CONCLUSION : Conclusions : Elevated lipoprotein ( a ) levels , independent of other lipid profile parameters , can significantly contribute to cardiovascular risk , emphasizing the importance of routine lipoprotein ( a ) screening in clinical practice . It is particularly noteworthy that lipoprotein ( a ) concentrations tend to increase after menopause , potentially placing postmenopausal women at an elevated risk for cardiovascular events . Consequently , it is imperative to monitor lipoprotein ( a ) levels in females , especially during the peri-menopausal and postmenopausal stages , to more accurately assess and manage cardiovascular risk in this population . FAU - Ivachevska , Vitalina V
Mitochondrial metabolism in neurons is necessary for energetically costly processes like synaptic transmission and plasticity . As post-mitotic cells , neurons are therefore faced with the challenge of maintaining healthy functioning mitochondria throughout lifetime . The precise mechanisms of mitochondrial maintenance in neurons , and particularly in morphologically complex dendrites and axons , are not fully understood . Evidence from several biological systems suggests the regulation of cellular metabolism by extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) , secretory lipid-enclosed vesicles that have emerged as important mediators of cell communication . In the nervous system , neuronal and glial EVs were shown to regulate neuronal circuit development and function , at least in part via the transfer of protein and RNA cargo . Interestingly , EVs have been implicated in diseases characterized by altered metabolism , such as cancer and neurodegenerative diseases . Furthermore , nervous system EVs were shown to contain proteins related to metabolic processes , mitochondrial proteins and even intact mitochondria . Here , we present the current knowledge of the mechanisms underlying neuronal mitochondrial maintenance , and highlight recent evidence suggesting the regulation of synaptic mitochondria by neuronal and glial cell EVs . We further discuss the potential implications of EV-mediated regulation of mitochondrial maintenance and function in neuronal circuit development and synaptic plasticity . FAU - Zeng , Yuzhou
Cordycepin , a physiologically active nucleoside compound with broad applications in healthcare , is biosynthesized in Cordyceps militaris through a protein complex formed by CmCns1 and CmCns To enhance cordycepin heterologous production in Yarrowia lipolytica , this study confirmed the colocalization of CmCns1 and CmCns2 on lipid droplets , with CmCns1 dominating this process by recruiting CmCns2 from the cytoplasm to lipid droplets via strong interactions . Critical lipid-droplet-targeting motifs within CmCns1 were identified . On this basis , an engineered strain YL-CD3 was developed by expanding the lipid droplets and CmCns3-NK compartmentalization . Then , the fermentation parameters were optimized to increase the yield of cordycepin to 23 mg/L in shake flasks . Finally , fed-batch fermentation in a 4 L bioreactor for 144 h achieved 75 mg/L ( 1 mg/OD and 57 mg/g glucose ) , marking the highest reported titer in Y . lipolytica . This work establishes Y . lipolytica as a high-potential platform for efficient cordycepin biosynthesis . FAU - Duan , Xi-Yu
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to identify and validate potential immune-related genes in endometriosis ( Ems ) through comprehensive bioinformatics analysis and immunohistochemistry ( IHC ) verification . DESIGN : Using data from the GEO database , single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA ) data and traditional bulk RNA sequencing data were analyzed to identify differentially expressed genes related to the immune system . Immunological analysis confirmed alterations in immune cells associated with Ems . Machine learning techniques were employed to identify characteristic immune genes of eutopic and ectopic endometria , which were then validated through IHC experiments . MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES : Immunological analysis revealed distinct variations in the enrichment of macrophages and NK cells in Ems . Functional enrichment analysis revealed a decrease in NK cell toxicity in both ectopic and eutopic endometria , activation of M2 macrophages in the ectopic endometrium supporting the survival of ectopic endothelial cells , and the presence of lipid antigens and signaling between immune cells facilitating the development of Ems . Machine learning algorithms revealed that TGFBR1 is a characteristic immune gene associated with the eutopic endometrium and that GIMAP4 is associated with the ectopic endometrium ; this conclusion was also confirmed by IHC . RESULTS : Macrophage and NK cell enrichment was significantly increased in endometria from patients with Ems . TGFBR1 is a characteristic immune gene associated with the eutopic endometrium , whereas GIMAP4 is associated with the ectopic endometrium . CONCLUSION : These findings provide new insights for the clinical diagnosis and selection of immune-related targets for Ems .
Plant cells represent smart cargo carriers with great socioeconomic potential in oral drug delivery applications . The two exterior barriers , featuring a rigid cell wall and a dense plasma membrane , are unique with complementary structural , mechanical , and chemical properties . Current strategies for producing therapeutic drugs within plant cells for oral delivery are efficient , but largely limited to recombinant pharmaceutical proteins , and involve complex genetic modification of plants . To address this , we engineer plant cell-inspired delivery systems with cellulose nanofiber-based shells and lipid layers through a bottom-up assembly strategy , which offers greater flexibility to encapsulate nonprotein compounds and nanoparticles . Notably , the layered shell structure resists degradation in acidic environments , and two barriers respond differently to external stimuli in simulated gastrointestinal medium , resulting in size-dependent dual-triggered release mechanisms . The cytocompatibility was shown by incubation with Caco-2 cells . Our results open avenues for developing next generation of bioinspired oral delivery systems for multisite-specific gastrointestinal release in a low-cost and sustainable manner . FAU - Mao , Anran
Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease , with a rapidly increasing prevalence worldwide . Biomarkers monitoring state and progression are urgently needed , and metabolomics from easily accessible biofluids holds the potential to elucidate pathophysiological underpinnings in PD . Several studies suggested metabolomic differences between patients and controls , but findings are controversial , and independent replication is scarce . We thus applied state-of-the-art , large-scale metabolomics in patients with idiopathic and monogenic PD and controls from two independent samples , analyzed by a strict meta-analysis approach . Thereby , we ( i ) debunked that l-Dopa medication and not disease status causes the most substantial metabolomic differences and ( ii ) identified polyamine metabolism alterations , partly , but not entirely associated with l-Dopa treatment . Furthermore , we found explorative but robust evidence for alterations in endocannabinoid metabolites ; detected lipid metabolism alterations , highlighting potential crosslinks with alpha-synuclein pathology ; and provided evidence for a metabolomic signature for the role of oxidative damage in patients with PRKN- and PINK1-linked PD . FAU - Balck , Alexander
AIMS : High levels of small dense low-density lipoprotein ( sdLDL ) cholesterol is associated with increased risk of ischemic heart disease and stroke ; however , data on peripheral artery disease is sparse and results inconclusive . We tested the hypothesis that higher levels of sdLDL cholesterol are associated with increased risk of peripheral artery disease . METHODS : We studied 31 , 036 individuals free of lipid-lowering therapy , ischemic heart disease , and ischemic stroke with measurements of sdLDL cholesterol at study entry in 2013- During a median follow-up of 2 years , 155 were diagnosed with peripheral artery disease . The association was confirmed using ankle-brachial index ( ABI ) </=9 as an endpoint . Furthermore , a meta-analysis of current and previous studies was conducted in 46 , 748 individuals including 660 peripheral artery disease cases . Lastly , as a comparison across different vascular beds , risk estimates for myocardial infarction and ischemic stroke were calculated . RESULTS : In multivariable adjusted models per 1 mmol/L ( 37 mg/dL ) higher sdLDL cholesterol , the hazard ratio for peripheral artery disease was 06 ( 95%CI : 45-92 ) while the odds ratio for ABI </=9 was 53 ( 08-15 ) . Fixed and random effect meta-analysis risk estimates for peripheral artery disease did not differ and was 62 ( 27-06 ) for the highest versus the lowest quartile of sdLDL cholesterol . For the 91st-100th versus the 1st-50th percentiles of sdLDL cholesterol , we found hazard ratios of 59 ( 55-33 ) for peripheral artery disease , 18 ( 58-02 ) for myocardial infarction , and 84 ( 37-48 ) for ischemic stroke . CONCLUSION : Higher levels of sdLDL cholesterol were robustly associated with increased risk of peripheral artery disease in the present study and in a meta-analysis .
Antibody-drug conjugates ( ADCs ) represent one of the most promising classes of monoclonal antibody-based ( mAb ) targeted cancer therapies . To date , 15 drugs of this class have received clinical approval , with numerous others under investigation in more than 100 clinical trials . Similarly to unconjugated antibodies , ADCs target various tumor markers including carbohydrate antigens such as glycosphingolipids . Among these targets , ganglioside GD2 is considered the most promising marker . Recent studies have demonstrated significant potential for the anti-GD2 ADCs in clinical application . Internalization of the antigen-antibody complexes and their subsequent transport to cellular lysosomes are critical factors that substantially influence ADC efficacy . However , internalization capacity of the GD2-specific antibodies and mechanisms of endocytosis of their complexes with GD2 have been insufficiently characterized . This study investigated internalization mechanisms of the ganglioside GD2 complexes with several of the most relevant GD2-specific antibody formats , namely full-length antibodies , minibodies , and scFv fragments . It was demonstrated that all used antibody variants successfully internalize into the GD2-positive tumor cells and enter their lysosomal compartments . Full-length antibodies and minibodies exhibited high endocytosis efficiency in the GD2-positive cells , occurring through several pathways , primarily macropinocytosis and caveolae-mediated endocytosis . These findings may be of interest for the development of more effective targeted therapeutics for GD2-positive tumors . FAU - Makarova , Alina O
Sterols significantly affect the barrier properties of the membrane , which might explains the fact that their concentration is maximal in the plasma membrane ( PM ) . Together with sphingolipids , sterols form rafts , i . e . , bilayer regions whose physicochemical properties differ from those of the surrounding PM . The presence of rafts allows membrane proteins to choose the lipid environment optimal for their functioning ( in terms of thickness , rigidity , spontaneous curvature , and lateral pressure profile of the bilayer ) . The ratio between sterols and sphingolipids in the rafts is close to stoichiometric . Theoretically , excess sterol outside the rafts can critically reduce the degree of order of membrane phospholipids . Sterols are synthesized in the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) . The active ( against the concentration gradient ) transport of sterols from the ER to the PM is driven by proteins of the Osh family , while Lam proteins provide passive reverse transport of sterols from the PM to the ER . Inactivation of Osh proteins does not reduce the total level of sterols in the PM but reduces the rate of their movement inside the PM ( the mechanisms underlying this effect remains unclear ) . Therefore , the vesicular transport of sterols from the ER to the PM is probably more active than the non-vesicular transport carried out by Osh proteins . Since sterols are more rigidly anchored and less sterically accessible in the rafts than outside them , we suggested that Lam proteins transport excess sterols from the non-raft phase of the PM to the ER , and Osh proteins return them back to the PM . In this way , the mutual activity of the Osh and lam proteins provides the rotation of sterols between the non-raft fraction of the PM and rafts , with the enrichment of the latter . It is possible that with a decrease in the sterol concentration in the non-raft fraction of the membrane , the rate of the Lam-dependent transport decreases since the degree of order of phospholipids and , consequently , the strength of retention of sterol molecules in the membrane increases , which might represent a mechanisms maintaining the concentration and distribution of sterols in the PM . FAU - Sokolov , Svyatoslav S
This study aimed to assess the protective effects of Lagenaria siceraria seed oil ( LSO ) on fifty male Albino rats subjected to furan exposure . Furan ( FU ) is a small , heterocyclic compound present in the volatile fraction of various thermally processed foods and beverages . Rats were categorized into five groups , each comprising ten rats . Group 1 served as the control group , receiving corn oil . Group 2 received LSO ( 3 g/kg body weight orally ) for 28 days . Rats in Group 3 ( FU-exposed group ) received an oral administration of FU at a dosage of 16 mg/kg body weight each day for 28 days . Rats in Group 4 ( Therapeutic co-treated group ) were administered both LSO and subsequent FU exposure according to the previously outlined dosage regimen for 28 days . Rats in Group 5 ( Protective co-treated group ) received LSO seed oil for 14 days as protection then received Fu at the same mentioned doses of Fu until the end of experiment . Rats administered FU and/or LSO gained noticeably more weight than the control group . LSO significantly decreased AST and LDH levels in both the protection and treatment groups as compared to the FU-only group . It also assisted in restoring testosterone and luteinizing hormone ( LH ) levels that were decreased by FU , especially in the protected group . LSO also reduced kidney damage markers and normalized biomarker levels when administered with FU . The LSO-only group demonstrated normal immune response markers , similar to the control group . By changing MDA levels and increasing SOD , GSH , and TAC levels , co-treatment with LSO enhanced liver health . The control and LSO groups displayed normal spleen structure , whereas the LSO/FU group had normal seminiferous tubules with mild edema and congestion . Overall , LSO demonstrated protective and therapeutic benefits against FU-induced damage in rats .
Arapaima spp . , the world ' s largest scaled freshwater fish , native to the Amazon and Essequibo river basins , are valued in aquaculture for their rapid growth and ornamental appeal . However , reliance on natural breeding and parental care in earthen ponds results in variable fingerling survival , hindering production . This study investigated the morphology and functionality of the digestive system of Arapaima sp . fingerlings from the Peruvian Amazon and evaluated the feasibility of early weaning onto compound diets to optimise growth and survival . Fingerlings were collected from a pond at 19 +/- 03 cm total length ( TL ) and reared in a recirculating aquaculture system at 29 masculineC under a 12L : 12D photoperiod . Fish were successfully weaned from Artemia spp . nauplii onto an experimental compound diet ( 60% protein , 15% lipid ) from 26 +/- 02 cm TL within three days . Histological and gene expression analyses of key digestive enzyme precursors and appetite-regulating peptides ( alpha-amylase , phospholipase A2 , lipoprotein lipase , trypsinogen , chymotrypsinogen , pepsinogen , and peptide YY ) revealed a mature digestive system , with enhanced digestive efficiency observed at 05 +/- 34 cm TL . Based on digestive enzyme expression profiles and gut morphology , early juvenile Arapaima sp . possess a digestive physiology consistent with that of an omnivorous species with a preference for animal prey . The middle intestine was identified as a key site for fatty acid absorption and feed intake regulation . This study presents a novel , comprehensive analysis of digestive enzyme gene expression and associated tissue morphology in the genus Arapaima . It provides new insights into their digestive physiology and establishes the feasibility of early weaning onto formulated diets . Future research should explore the interplay between optimised compound feed formulations and refined early rearing protocols to maximise growth and survival throughout development .
This investigation elucidates the co-pyrolysis of neem seed cake in combination with plastic waste across a spectrum of mass ratios namely , 0 : 1 , 3 : 1 , 2 : 1 , 1 : 1 , 1 : 2 , 1 : 3 , and 1 : 0 subjected to varying pyrolytic temperatures from 350 degrees C to 650 degrees C , employing a CuO catalyst as a facilitating agent . The research concentrated on elucidating the effect of reaction temperature and the blend ratio of neem seed cake to plastic waste on the distribution of products and the chemical composition of the resultant pyrolysis oil . The co-pyrolysis performed at a 1 : 2 ratio of neem seed cake to plastic waste yielded an optimal oil production of 4 wt% with maximum positive synergy of 25% at 500 degrees C . The physicochemical characteristics of the resulting co-pyrolysis oil demonstrated a striking resemblance to those of conventional fossil diesel . Further analysis through FT-IR revealed the presence of a different range of aromatic components . Quantitative analysis utilizing chromatographic peak area evaluations was undertaken to elucidate the compositional profile of the pyrolysis oils , thereby accentuating the presence of synergistic effects . Furthermore , GC-MS analysis provided empirical validation of the interaction between neem seed cake and waste plastics during co-pyrolysis , as indicated by discernible decrease in the concentration of oxygenated compounds . FAU - Livingston , Thomas P Stephen
A novel Kitasatospora strain , designated as HNM1077 ( T ) , was isolated from rhizosphere soil of Hibiscus tiliaceus collected from the bank of the Beilun River in Dongxing City , Guangxi Province , China . The novel strain exhibited antimicrobial activity against a wide range of microbes , particularly Gram--negative bacteria and plant pathogenic fungi . Based on the alignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences , strain HNM1077 ( T ) was closely related to Kitasatospora aburaviensis NRRL B-2218 ( T ) ( 51% ) . Comparisons based on genome sequencing showed that strain HNM1077 ( T ) was distinguished from its nearest species by average nucleotide identity of 36% and a digital DNA-DNA hybridization value of 3% . The G+C content of strain HNM1077 ( T ) was 1 mol% . The main fatty acids of strain HNM1077 ( T ) were iso-C ( 15 : 0 ) ( 5% ) , anteiso-C ( 15 : 0 ) ( 7% ) , iso-C ( 16 : 0 ) ( 6% ) , iso-C ( 17 : 0 ) ( 3% ) and anteiso-C ( 17 : 0 ) ( 7% ) . The predominant menaquinone was MK-9 ( H ) . The major polar lipids of strain HNM1077 ( T ) consisted of phosphatidylethanolamine , phosphatidylinositol , diphosphatidylglycerol and glycosylphosphatidylinositol . Based on these polyphasic taxonomic results , strain HNM1077 ( T ) represents a novel Kitasatospora species , for which the name Kitasatospora hibisci sp . nov . is proposed . The type strain is HNM1077 ( T ) ( =CCTCC AA 2024052 ( T ) =KCTC 59330 ( T ) ) . FAU - Xiao , Jinlan
Prostaglandin E ( PGE ) mediates diverse physiological processes through four G protein-coupled receptor subtypes ( EP1-EP4 ) . While structures of EP2 , EP3 , and EP4 have been determined , the structural basis for PGE recognition and activation of the EP1 receptor subtype has remained elusive due to its inherent instability . Here , we present the cryoelectron microscopy structure of the human EP1 receptor in complex with PGE and heterotrimeric Gq protein at 55 A resolution , completing the structural characterization of the EP receptor family . Our structure reveals a unique binding mode of PGE within EP1 , involving key interactions with residues in the orthosteric pocket . Notably , we observe a less pronounced outward displacement of transmembrane helix 6 compared to other EP receptor subtypes , suggesting a distinct activation mechanism for EP Through extensive mutational analyses , we identify critical residues involved in PGE recognition , EP1 activation , and Gq protein coupling . By overcoming the challenges associated with the instability of EP1 , our findings provide valuable insights into the subtype-specific activation mechanisms of EP receptors and lay the foundation for the development of more selective EP1-targeted therapeutics . FAU - Meng , Xue
Gating in voltage-dependent ion channels is regulated by the transmembrane voltage . This form of regulation is enabled by voltage-sensing domains ( VSDs ) that respond to transmembrane voltage differences by changing their conformation and exerting force on the pore to open or close it . Here , we use cryogenic electron microscopy to study the neuronal K ( v ) 1 channel in lipid vesicles with and without a voltage difference across the membrane . Hyperpolarizing voltage differences displace the positively charged S4 helix in the voltage sensor by one helical turn ( ~5 A ) . When this displacement occurs , the S4 helix changes its contact with the pore at two different interfaces . When these changes are observed in fewer than four voltage sensors , the pore remains open , but when they are observed in all four voltage sensors , the pore constricts . The constriction occurs because the S4 helix , as it displaces inward , squeezes the right-handed helical bundle of pore-lining S6 helices . A similar conformational change occurs upon hyperpolarization of the EAG1 channel but with two helical turns displaced instead of one . Therefore , while K ( v ) 1 and EAG1 are from distinct architectural classes of voltage-dependent ion channels , called domain-swapped and non-domain-swapped , the way the voltage sensors gate their pores is very similar . FAU - Mandala , Venkata Shiva
Extracting and analyzing polar lipids during conifer needle abscission is crucial for comprehending the associated lipid dynamics . A combination of polar and nonpolar solvents for lipid extraction is actively used in lipid analysis during conifer needle abscission . Conifer needle tissue is particularly difficult to work on for several reasons , which must be considered during sample preparation and lipid extraction . Further , conditions like in situ tissue harvest , postharvest tissue harvest , and extraction protocol influence the analysis of target lipids in the plant . The use of electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry ( ESI-MS/MS ) facilitates the simultaneous and thorough analysis of many polar lipids in conifer tissue samples .
Jasmonates are a group of plant signaling compounds that control defense mechanisms and modulate growth and development in response to environmental challenges . The protocol in this chapter describes a simple and rapid quantification of the most commonly studied jasmonate , jasmonic acid ( JA ) , and also both its precursor 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid ( OPDA ) and JA-isoleucine ( JA-Ile ) the bioactive form , in the abscission zone ( AZ ) and the mesocarp tissue of oil palm fruits . These tissues are lipid-rich and difficult to analyze because of high levels of triglycerides ( TAGs ) . When TAGs are extracted by apolar solvents , the column and analytical system can be clogged , and the jasmonate quantification is perturbed . In order to determine jasmonate distribution in lipid-rich tissues , we present a protocol to eliminate TAGs to successfully extract and quantify jasmonates , including 12-oxo-phytodienoic acid ( OPDA ) , the most apolar compound , and JA-Ile , the form that binds to the JA co-receptor complex and regulates responses through JA signaling . The protocol is used with the objective of understanding the function of jasmonates in the AZ of ripe oil palm fruit during abscission .
Atherosclerosis ( AS ) remains the main cause of vascular diseases . This study reveals the effects of safranal and underlying mechanisms in RAW7 macrophages under AS context , which is hoped to facilitate its clinical application . Safranal reduced AS progression in ApoE ( -/- ) mice , and it also increased the serum level of HDL-C and decreased the levels of TG , TC , and LDL-C as well as ALT and AST . Besides , safranal repressed the pathophysiological processes of OS ( downregulated levels of ROS and MDA and upregulated biosynthesis of GSH ) , ERS ( decreased protein levels of activating transcription factor 6 , X-Box Binding Protein 1 , and glucose-regulated protein , 78 kDa ) , and inflammation ( downregulated serum levels of TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , and IL-6 ) in vivo . Mechanistically , safranal repressed PI3K/Akt and NF-kappaB signaling pathways in vivo . On the cellular level , safranal treatment relieved the uptake of ox-LDL , and decreased contents of TG , TC , and LDL-C while increasing HDL-C level in ox-LDL-treated RAW7 macrophages . It also reduced the molecular indexes of pathophysiological processes ( OS , ESR , and release of inflammatory mediators ) in ox-LDL-exposed RAW7 macrophages . Notably , safranal treatment also impaired PI3K/Akt and NF-kappaB signaling pathways in ox-LDL-exposed RAW7 macrophages . Additionally , the PI3K agonist 740Y-P notably reversed the in vitro inhibitory effects of safranal on lipid deposition , productions of TC and TNF-alpha , and protein levels of molecules of PI3K/Akt and NF-kappaB signaling pathways . Safranal exerts anti-AS effects via repressing OS , ERS , and inflammation in ApoE ( -/- ) mice , and it also negatively modulates PI3K/Akt and NF-kappaB signaling pathways in RAW7 macrophages .
This study aims to identify the underlying mechanism by which melatonin protects neurons . Firstly , the inhibitory effect of melatonin on ferroptosis was verified by treating HT22 cells with melatonin , Erastin , and Ferrostatin- Secondly , transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses were performed . Melatonin-related hub genes were identified by differential gene expression analysis , and lipid metabolism-related critical signaling pathways and biological processes ( BPs ) were determined by gene set enrichment analysis ( GSEA ) . Finally , the expression of hub genes was verified by quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR ) or Western Blot ( WB ) , and the involvement of Tribble 3 ( Trib3 ) in the regulation of lipid metabolism and ferroptosis by melatonin was confirmed by Cell Counting Kit 8 ( CCK-8 ) assay , ROS analysis , and WB . Assay results showed that melatonin significantly increased Gpx4 activity , decreased ROS generation , and inhibited ferroptosis in HT22 cells . The hub gene Trib3 was obtained by transcriptomic analysis , and its expression was upregulated with Erastin treatment . Lipid metabolomic analysis suggested that the regulation of lipid metabolism by melatonin was associated with glycerophospholipids . In vitro experiments showed that Trib3 was regulated by the upstream factor Atf4 , and the protein levels of Trib3 and Atf4 were significantly increased after Erastin treatment . However , melatonin can reduce the protein levels of Trib3 and Atf4 , increase the survival rate of HT-22 cells and the activity of GPX4 , and reduce the ROS content . Melatonin inhibits neuronal ferroptosis by affecting the Atf4/Trib3 axis via the modulation of lipid metabolism .
ASD is a complex neurodevelopmental disorder with genetic , environmental , and molecular roots . Among the thousands of genes that have been associated with ASD , one critical factor has emerged as ABCA12 , which plays an important role in lipid transport and metabolism . Traditionally , it has been related to skin disorders but has only recently been implicated in broader brain development and function . Some of the implicated effects include dysregulated lipid homeostasis , neuroinflammation , oxidative stress , and abnormalities in synaptic when the ABCA12 system is dysregulated . All the above processes are related to pathology in ASD . In this review , the emerging function of ABCA12 in autism neurobiology has been discussed ; the core base is derived from in vivo models and preclinical studies . In vivo models such as mice and zebrafish that , in the previous studies had earlier shown impairments of ABCA12 which results in social deficiency behaviors but also perform repetitive actions . Based on the effects of the gene on molecular pathways , including neuronal signalling and membrane integrity , and identifying therapeutic approaches targeting ABCA12 or its downstream effects , preclinical studies have contributed to the integration of genetic , functional , and therapeutic perspectives for understanding the contribution of ABCA12 to ASD . These findings may unlock further investigations geared toward unravelling how lipid metabolism intricately influences neurodevelopment with regards to interventions available for use in ASD .
Atopic dermatitis ( AD ) is a chronic inflammatory skin disease that is prevalent worldwide with complex etiology . Skin barrier defects and abnormal immune activation are crucial in the occurrence and development of AD . In the classic model of the skin barrier , lipids are essential for the formation and maintenance of this barrier as a " mortar " component . However , abnormally activated immune responses promote the lipid barrier deficiency through the secretion of various types of immune mediators directly or indirectly . In this review , we first introduce the skin lipid barrier ( SLB ) under both normal and abnormal conditions , highlighting the contributions of lipids derived from keratinocytes and sebaceous glands ( SGs ) . Subsequently , the relationships between the immune mediators of Th1 , Th2 , Th17 , Th22 , and other types ( adipokines , prostaglandins , leukotrienes ) and SLB are elaborated in turn . Finally , the therapies for restoring SLB to treat AD are summarized , with a focus on the restoration effect of dupilumab on SLB . We hope that this review will offer a comprehensive perspective for understanding the pathogenesis of lipid metabolism disorders and SLB deficiency caused by immune mediators in AD . It also aims to provide guidance for further research on targeting inflammatory mediators to restore SLB .
Artificial breeding and releasing can effectively restore fishery resources . However , it is important to note that released juvenile fish were highly susceptible to starvation during their adaptation to the natural environment . This study investigated the metabolomic changes in the liver of Onychostoma sima after 14 days using ultra-high pressure liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry ( UPLC-Q-TOF/MS ) analysis under starvation exposure . The experiment was divided into a control group ( C Group ) and a starvation group ( S Group ) , with six biological replicates in each group and one fish per replicate . The results indicated significant changes in the starvation group compared to the control group , as demonstrated by the principal component analysis ( PCA ) score plots and orthogonal partial least squares discriminant analysis ( OPLS-DA ) . The 297 differential metabolites screened were mainly involved in the metabolism of organic acids and derivatives , and lipids and lipid-like molecules . Furthermore , KEGG results revealed that differential metabolites were primarily enriched in 33 metabolic pathways . The majority of the amino acid metabolic pathways in the liver were significantly affected by starvation stress . Moreover , biosynthesis of amino acids , protein digestion and absorption , and mineral absorption were upregulated , while glycerophospholipid metabolism and the hedgehog signaling pathway were downregulated in response to energy demands during starvation . In conclusion , these findings provide physiological insights into the metabolism of juvenile O . sima under starvation stress , offering new perspectives for the optimization of fish proliferation and release technology .
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , now known by the name of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease ( MAFLD ) , with increased global incidence , has been recognized as a significant metabolic disorder . NAFLD includes a spectrum liver disease from hepatocellular fat accumulation ( isolated steatosis ) to an advanced form of liver injury known as nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) , which refers to distinct histologic features , including hepatocellular steatosis and injury , necroinflammation , and eventually fibrosis . Nonobese or lean individuals associated with metabolic dysregulation usually demonstrated diverse risk factors compared to obese MAFLD . The presence of normal range body mass index ( BMI ) and excess visceral adiposity with increased cardiometabolic and renal comorbidities , along with sarcopenia , has been evidenced to be associated with lean MASH . Genetic predispositions accompanying lifestyle and environmental factors contribute to disease initiation and progression . The genetic influence in pathophysiology indicated the significant contributions of the following genes : PNPLA3 , TM6SF2 , APOB , LIPA , MBOAT7 , and HSD17B13 , and the impact of their disease-specific variants in the development of obesity-independent MASH . The epigenetic modifications exhibited differential DNA methylation patterns in the genes involved in lipid metabolism , particularly hypomethylation of PEMT . Diet-induced and genetic animal models of lean MASH , including Slc : Wistar/ST rats , PPAR-alpha , PTEN , and MAT1A knockout mice models , are indicated to be pivotal in the exploration of disease progression and observing the effect of therapeutic interventions . This comprehensive review comprises the molecular and genetic pathophysiology , molecular diagnostics , and therapeutic aspects of lean MASH to enunciate a diagnostic approach that combines detailed clinical phenotyping regarding genomic analysis .
Intercellular communication is an essential hallmark of multicellular organisms for their development and adult tissue homeostasis . Over the past two decades , attention has been focused on communication mechanisms based on various membrane structures , as illustrated by the burst of scientific literature in the field of extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) . These lipid bilayer-bound nano- or microparticles , as vehicle-like devices , act as regulators in various biological and physiological processes . When EVs are internalized by recipient cells , their membrane and cytoplasmic cargoes can interfere with cellular activities , affecting pathways that regulate cell proliferation , differentiation , and migration . In cancer , EVs can transfer oncogenic factors , stimulate neo-angiogenesis and immunosuppression , reprogram stromal cells , and confer drug resistance traits , thereby remodeling the surrounding microenvironment . Although the mechanisms underlying EV biogenesis and uptake are now better understood , little is known about the spatiotemporal mechanism ( s ) of their actions after internalization . In this respect , we have shown that a fraction of endocytosed EVs reaches the nuclear compartment via the VOR ( VAP-A-ORP3-Rab7 ) complex-mediated docking of late endosomes to the outer nuclear membrane in the nucleoplasmic reticulum , positioning and facilitating the transfer of EV cargoes into the nucleoplasm via nuclear pores . Here , we highlight the EV heterogeneity , the cellular pathways governing EV release and uptake by donor and recipient cells , respectively , and focus on a novel intracellular pathway leading to the nuclear transfer of EV cargoes . We will discuss how to intercept it , which could open up new avenues for clinical applications in which EVs and other small extracellular particles ( e . g . , retroviruses ) are implicated .
Plasma proteomics technologies are rapidly evolving and of critical importance to the field of biomedical research . Here , we report a technical evaluation of six notable plasma proteomics technologies horizontal line unenriched ( Neat ) , acid depletion , PreOmics ENRICHplus , Mag-Net , Seer Proteograph XT , and Olink Explore HT . The methods were compared on proteomic depth , reproducibility , linearity , tolerance to lipid interference , and limit of detection/quantification . In total , we performed 618 LC-MS/MS experiments and 93 Olink Explore HT assays . The Seer method achieved the greatest proteomic depth ( approximately 4500 proteins detected ) , while Olink detected approximately 2600 proteins . Other MS-based methods ranged from approximately 500-2200 proteins detected . In our analysis , Neat , Mag-Net , Seer , and Olink had good reproducibility , while PreOmics and Acid had higher variability ( >20% median coefficient of variation ) . All MS methods showed good linearity with spiked-in C-reactive protein ( CRP ) ; CRP was surprisingly not in the Olink assay . None of the methods were affected by lipid interference . Seer produced the highest number of quantifiable proteins with a measurable LOD and LOQ . Olink had the next highest number of quantifiable proteins , with 2002 having an LOD and 1883 having an LOQ . Finally , we tested the applicability of these methods for detecting differences between healthy and cancer groups in a nonsmall cell lung cancer ( NSCLC ) cohort . All six methods detected differentially abundant proteins between the cancer and healthy samples but disagreed on which proteins were significant , highlighting the contrast between each method . FAU - Beimers , William F
Self-assembly is defined as a spontaneous ordering of molecules into distinct supramolecular structures similar to the naturally occurring biomolecules such as DNA , lipids and proteins . Interestingly , this strategy has gained huge importance in recent decades , leading to substantial advancements in the biomedical field , including drug delivery , biosensing , tissue engineering , etc . The unique role of " FF " moiety in promoting self-aggregation in larger proteins is well established owing to its frequent occurrence in amyloids . This finding came as a breakthrough in peptide nanotechnology research leading to the exploration of various peptide-based supramolecular structures demonstrating exceptional functional roles with futuristic applications . In this regard , since amino acids are the building blocks of peptides , the detailed investigation and discussion regarding their self-assembly behavior are expected to provide important insights into designing advanced functional materials from amino acids and peptides . This review provides a systematic overview of various latest findings on amino-acid-based self-assembly and its pathological as well as functional role . The review also highlights the importance of emerging applications from self-assembled amino-acid-based nanomaterials in the field of material science and biomedicine .
The diversification of lipid compositions in lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) is crucial for expanding their clinical applications and overcoming current limitations . In this study , LNPs with varying lipid compositions are fabricated using three different mixing processes ( pipette , vortex , and microfluidic mixing ) for small interfering RNA ( siRNA ) delivery . While both siRNA and hydrophobic fluorescent dye are successfully incorporated within LNPs using pipette- and vortex-mixing , hydrophilic peptides cannot be encapsulated . Following optimization of ionizable lipid proportion via cost-efficient vortex-mixing method , LNPs with a lower ionizable lipid proportion ( 72% ) , termed LNP5 , are selected and fabricated with histidine decapeptide ( His10 ) during formulation via microfluidic mixing method to supplement the function of approximately half of the ionizable lipids by simple addition of His His10- incorporated LNP5 ( LNP5H ) exhibited a 6-fold increase in gene silencing efficiency , compared to conventional LNPs ( cLNPs ; ionizable lipid proportion of 95% ) . Furthermore , LNP5H maintained siRNA potency for 4 weeks when stored in a 1% sucrose solution at -70 degrees C . Taken together , it fabricates potent LNP5H with low proportion of ionizable lipids via fast and easy processes , which can be applied to a variety of siRNA therapeutics for their efficient intracellular delivery .
OBJECTIVES : This study aimed to perform pre-formulation studies , formulation development , and formulation optimization for self-nanoemulsifying drug delivery systems ( SNEDDS ) , a lipid-based formulation approach to improve the low solubility of bosentan monohydrate ( BOS ) . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Pseudo-ternary phase diagrams were created for pre-formulation studies and formulation design for SNEDDS . The SNEDDS was optimized with BBD . The optimized BOS-loaded SNEDDS formulation was characterized by droplet size ( DS ) , polydispersity index ( PDI ) , dispersibility , an efficiency test of self-nanoemulsification , % transmittance , turbidity , robustness , and the effects of pH , viscosity , and thermodynamic and long-term stability studies . The in vitro dissolution studies were performed in distilled water containing 1% sodium lauryl sulfate , which is a Food and Drug Administration-recommended medium , and in biorelevant media . Ex vivo studies were conducted in biorelevant media . RESULTS : The optimum BOS-loaded SNEDDS had a DS of 76 nm and PDI of The characterization studies satisfied SNEDDS requirements ( does not deteriorate when diluted at different pHs ; resistant to thermodynamic changes ; self-emulsifying within 1 minute ; Grade A ; and transparent ) for both blank and BOS-loaded SNEDDS . In long-term stability studies , it was found to be stable for six months . When in vitro dissolution was compared to the performance of the commercial product ( Tracleer ( ( R ) ) ) , the BOS-loaded SNEDDS showed 88 , 63 , 83 , and 23 increases in the percentages of cumulative dissolution in fasted state simulated intestinal fluid ( FaSSIF ) , fed state simulated intestinal fluid ( FeSSIF ) , FaSSIF-V2 , and FeSSIF-V2 , respectively . The ex vivo permeation study showed 2- , 1- , 3- , and 1-fold increases in drug permeation in FaSSIF , FeSSIF , FaSSIF-V2 , and FeSSIF-V2 for the SNEDDS formulation , as compared to the commercial product , respectively . CONCLUSION : Pre-formulation and formulation studies were carried out successfully , and lipid-based optimum BOS-loaded SNEDDS were obtained . The present study confirms the potential of optimum BOS-loaded SNEDDS , which was found to be stable over the long term , to increase the drug ' s solubility , in vitro dissolution , and ex vivo permeability . This formulation approach has been promising for further in vivo studies , to improve the oral bioavailability of BOS .
OBJECTIVES : Tuberculosis ( TB ) remains a major worldwide health challenge causing morbidity and mortality , necessitating novel approaches for its effective therapy . Pyrazinamide ( PYZ ) , a nicotinamide analogue , is a key frontline drug significantly involved in the treatment of TB . However , its dose-dependent hepatotoxicity is a major concern that needs to be addressed . The aim of the current research was to develop PYZ-loaded solid lipid nanoparticles ( PYZ-SLNs ) as a potential therapeutic intervention for treating TB . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The PYZ-SLNs were formulated by a high-pressure homogenization technique and optimized using a 23-factorial design . The drug concentration , emulsifier concentration , and homogenization cycles were considered critical formulation and processing parameters to study their effects on essential attributes of quality of PYZ-SLNs , i . e . , entrapment efficiency ( EE% ) , drug loading ( DL% ) , and particle size . RESULTS : The optimized PYZ-SLNs showed a particle size of 401+/-08 nm , EE% of 24+/-15 , DL% of 38+/- The in vitro lipolysis studies revealed that PYZ-SLNs exhibited an anti-lipolytic effect due to stabilization by poloxamer Moreover , the in vitro gastrointestinal ( GI ) stability results demonstrated that the PYZ-SLNs were stable in GI tract media ( at pH 2 , pH 5 , pH 8 , and pH 4 ) . The in vitro drug release studies showed the best fit with the Hixon-Crowell model . The accelerated stability studies revealed no significant changes in PYZ-SLNs for 6 months . CONCLUSION : PYZ-SLNs could be a promising carrier for the treatment of TB via the oral intestinal lymphatic pathway , circumventing its hepatic first-pass metabolism and thereby preventing hepatic adverse effects .
The study evaluated the effects of violet-blue light ( VBL ) on cell viability and replication , carbonylation of three structural proteins ( S , E , and N ) and one non-structural protein ( NSP13 ) , and direct damage to the RNA of SARS-CoV- The virus was exposed to increasing doses of VBL along with influenza A and B viruses to compare their susceptibility . At the highest dose ( 6 J/cm ) , SARS-CoV-2 was significantly more susceptible to VBL than the influenza viruses , with a reduction in viral titer of 33 log . Viral RNA did not show significant changes after exposure to VBL , as demonstrated by next-generation sequencing and real-time PCR quantification , suggesting that the inactivation process does not involve direct nucleic acid damage . To exclude the role of the culture suspension in the inactivation process , virus viability experiments were performed using different dilutions of Dulbecco ' s modified Eagle ' s medium ( DMEM ) in phosphate-buffered saline ( PBS ) . The results indicated that the suspension medium played a secondary role in virus inactivation , as viability did not increase with increasing DMEM dilution . Subsequent tests with three different antioxidants ( NAC , AsA , and SOD ) at different concentrations prevented viral inactivation , from 99% to 43% ( with SOD 003 mM ) . Carbonylation of S and E proteins was more pronounced when viruses were suspended in DMEM rather than PBS , although the tests demonstrated that the intrinsic properties of the viral membrane were a crucial element to consider in relation to its susceptibility to VBL . IMPORTANCELight-based disinfection methods are often used in combination with other cleaning methods due to their non-invasive nature , versatility , and environmental benefits . VBL is an effective approach as it induces the production of reactive oxygen species that reduce microbial viability . In this study , lipid peroxidation was identified as an important factor affecting the structural integrity and function of the viral envelope , reducing its ability to interact with host cells and consequently its ability to be infectious . The lipid envelope of SARS-CoV-2 , composed mainly of glycerophospholipids and lacking cholesterol and sphingolipids , appears to be the critical factor in its susceptibility , distinguishing it from influenza viruses , which have a lipid profile richer in components that protect against oxidative stress . FAU - Amodeo , Davide
Viruses subvert cells and evade host defense . They emerge unpredictably and threaten humans and livestock through their genetic and phenotypic diversity . Despite more than 100 years since the discovery of viruses , the molecular underpinnings of virus infections are incompletely understood . The introduction of new methodologies into the field , such as that of click chemistry some 10 years ago , keeps uncovering new facets of viruses . Click chemistry uses bio-orthogonal reactions on chemical probes and couples nucleic acids , proteins , and lipids with tractable labels , such as fluorophores for single-cell and single-molecule imaging , or biotin for biochemical profiling of infections . Its applications in single cells often achieve single-molecule resolution and provide important insights into the widely known phenomenon of cell-to-cell infection variability . This review describes click chemistry advances to unravel infection mechanisms of a select set of enveloped and nonenveloped DNA and RNA viruses , including adenovirus , herpesvirus , and human immunodeficiency virus . It highlights recent click chemistry breakthroughs with viral DNA , viral RNA , protein , as well as host-derived lipid functions in both live and chemically fixed cells . It discusses new insights on specific processes including virus entry , uncoating , transcription , replication , packaging , and assembly and provides a perspective for click chemistry to explore viral cell biology , infection variability , and genome organization in the particle . FAU - Greber , Urs F
BACKGROUND : Placental malaria is characterized by the accumulation of Plasmodium falciparum-infected erythrocytes and maternal inflammation in the intervillous spaces of the placenta . These features are associated with placental damage and fetal compromise . However , understanding of the mechanisms that lead to poor pregnancy outcome and interventions targeting excessive host responses to placental malaria are still lacking . The syncytiotrophoblast , a cell of fetal origin , is known to be responsive to malaria-infected erythrocytes as well as the malaria toxin , hemozoin , but its susceptibility to oxidative stress and how this might contribute to placental damage and dysfunction has not yet been directly investigated . METHODS : The characteristics and key drivers of the syncytiotrophoblast response to oxidative stress were investigated using ex vivo human placental tissues and primary trophoblasts isolated from healthy pregnant women . Primary syncytiotrophoblast was exposed to hemozoin and tumor necrosis factor , a critical inflammatory cytokine , to model conditions found in human placental malaria . RESULTS : The data show remarkable lipid peroxidation in human placental samples from a malaria endemic setting and evidence of a modulated antioxidant response at the transcriptional level . Likewise , primary human syncytiotrophoblast exposed to hemozoin , tumor necrosis factor , and tumor necrosis factor combined with hemozoin in vitro exhibited increased markers of an anti-oxidative response , and , with hemozoin alone , oxidation of lipids and DNA . CONCLUSIONS : These results suggest that oxidative stress in syncytiotrophoblast is promoted by both hemozoin exposure and maternal inflammatory responses to placental malaria and contribute to an increased understanding of placental dysfunction and compromise in this infection .
OBJECTIVE : The objectives of this study were to document factors that promoted or hindered the successful implementation of small quantity lipid-based nutrient supplements ( SQ-LNS ) for children 6-23 months and pregnant and lactating women ( PLW ) and gather programme staff perspectives on considerations for expanding SQ-LNS programmes in their context . DESIGN : We used qualitative methods to interview programme staff ( n 23 ) , conduct distribution site observations ( n 9 ) and facilitate focus group discussions with caregivers of children 6-23 months ( n 9 ) and PLW ( n 6 ) with 6-8 participants per group across the three countries . SETTING : The study was conducted in SQ-LNS programme sites in Honduras , Niger and Somalia . RESULTS : We found high acceptability of SQ-LNS among caregivers of children 6-23 months and PLW women . However , caregivers and PLW were dissatisfied with the size of the product in Niger and Somalia and PLW disliked the aftertaste of iron in Honduras . In Somalia , PLW referred to high levels of food insecurity . We also found variation in how the partners designed their SQ-LNS programmes ( e . g . enrolment and exit criteria ) , the level of communication around SQ-LNS and problem-solving to support appropriate use of SQ-LNS . Partners tracked anthropometric measurements in all countries and used the information to assess changes and , in some cases , noted improvements in child anthropometry and vaccination rates . CONCLUSIONS : Programmes need to consider several operational factors during implementation , such as securing household food access in highly food-insecure areas , counselling on the use of SQ-LNS and evidence-based criteria for enrolment , exit and supplementation duration . FAU - Singh , Akriti
OBJECTIVE : The mechanisms of bariatric surgery-induced weight loss and metabolic improvements are still incompletely understood and reach beyond malabsorption or calorie restriction . We sought to investigate the effect of bariatric surgery on brown adipose tissue ( BAT ) activity and a potential connection with changes in energy metabolism , the gut microbiota , and short-chain fatty acid ( SCFA ) composition . METHODS : We included 32 subjects ( 25 females ) with morbid obesity and analyzed their metabolic profile , gut microbiota composition , circulating SCFAs , energy expenditure , and cold-induced BAT activity using [18F]Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography-computed tomography before and up to 1 year after bariatric surgery . RESULTS : Twelve months after surgery , the percentage of individuals with active BAT had increased from 28% to 53% . The BAT-negative ( BATneg ) individuals who had an adverse metabolic profile at baseline compared with subjects with active BAT ( BATpos ) showed a greater metabolic benefit after surgery . While no changes in overall gut bacterial diversity were observed between BATpos and BATneg , the abundance of 3 specific bacterial families , including Akkermansiaceae , Pasteurellaceae , and Carnobacteriaceae , was distinctly regulated between BAT groups . The bacterial genera most strongly increased in BATpos vs BATneg subjects were all positively correlated with BAT volume and BAT activity . Finally , circulating concentrations of the SCFAs acetate , butyrate , and propionate rose after bariatric surgery and were related to bacterial genera such as Akkermansia , Dialister , and Lachnospiraceae FCS020 group , all known SCFA producers . CONCLUSIONS : Bariatric surgery helps recruit active BAT in individuals with obesity and is linked to distinct alterations in the gut microbiome and SCFA composition . TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER : ClinicalTrials . gov ( NCT03168009 ) .
Diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disorder marked by insulin deficiency and hyperglycemia . At present , pharmacotherapy involving synthetic diabetic agents is widely used , but it comes with side effects . In contrast , natural compounds like polysaccharides show promising anti-diabetic activity and are increasingly used alongside conventional therapies , especially in developing countries . This study investigated the effects of crude polysaccharides from Deglet Noor dates ( DNP ) on type 1 diabetes induced by streptozotocin ( STZ ) in male BALB/c mice . DNP was extracted using water , deproteinized , and precipitated with ethanol . Monosaccharide composition was analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) , and diabetic mice received oral DNP supplementation for five weeks . Body weight , blood glucose , food and water intake , cytokine expression , histology , and gut microbiota composition were assessed . HPLC analysis identified mannose , rhamnose , glucose , and galactose as key monosaccharides in DNP . Treatment with DNP significantly reduced blood glucose levels , improved body weight , and normalized food and water intake . It enhances glucose tolerance , insulin sensitivity , and insulin levels while reducing serum lipids , triglycerides , and free fatty acids . DNP also improved pancreatic morphology , restoring the islet structure and increasing cellular density . Pro-inflammatory cytokines ( TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , and IL-17 ) were reduced , while IL-10 levels increased . In the liver , DNP reduced necrosis , inflammation , and oxidative stress , as indicated by lower SOD and MDA levels . Colon tissue showed restored goblet cells , reduced inflammation , improved crypt structure , and increased mucin-2 expression . Furthermore , DNP reversed STZ-induced gut microbiota dysbiosis , increasing microbial diversity and beneficial bacteria while reducing pathogenic bacteria . In conclusion , DNP alleviates diabetes by improving glucose metabolism , insulin sensitivity , and inflammation while restoring pancreatic , liver , and gut health , highlighting its therapeutic potential . FAU - Ullah , Hidayat
BACKGROUND : Gastric cancer is one of the most prevalent malignancies of the digestive system and is associated with a poor prognosis , particularly in advanced metastatic stages , where the 5-year survival rate is significantly low . METHODS : Recent research has demonstrated that metabolic reprogramming-including alterations in glucose , lipid , and amino-acid metabolism-plays a critical role in both the development and progression of this disease . To gain deeper insights into these metabolic shifts , scientists have increasingly employed metabolomics , a non-invasive technique that detects and quantifies small molecules within cancerous tissues , thereby enhancing prognostic assessments . AIM : Analyzing the metabolic profiles of gastric-cancer tissues can reveal significant changes in key metabolic pathways , which may open new avenues for targeted therapies and ultimately improve patient outcomes . CONCLUSION : This article reviews recent advancements in the study of metabolic reprogramming in gastric cancer , aiming to identify potential therapeutic targets and offer new hope to patients .
HIV-1 envelope glycoprotein ( Env ) is a transmembrane protein that mediates membrane fusion during viral entry . Incorporation of a sufficient number of Envs during viral assembly is critical for viral infectivity . It has long been suggested that the interaction between Env and the matrix domain ( MA ) of the Gag polyprotein plays an important role in recruiting Envs to the site of viral assembly on the plasma membrane , but direct biochemical and structural evidence is lacking for such an interaction in the context of a membrane-like environment . Here , we report specific structural contacts between the cytoplasmic tail ( CT ) of the trimeric HIV-1 Env in bicelles and the trimeric MA . Using a combination of measurements of NMR chemical shift perturbation , intermolecular paramagnetic relaxation enhancements , and microscale thermophoresis , we found that , in DMPC-DHPC bicelles that mimic a lipid bilayer , the trimeric baseplate formed by the CT specifically interacted with the trimeric MA via mostly electrostatic interactions involving acidic residues of the CT and positively charged patches of the MA . Nonconservative substitution of these previously unrecognized acidic residues in Env resulted in drastically reduced viral infectivity . Our findings , together with early genetic and biochemical studies , indicate that specific interactions between the CT of Env and MA play a structural role during HIV-1 assembly . FAU - Chaubey , Manish
Plant cell walls contain a meshwork of cellulose fibers embedded into a matrix of other carbohydrate and non-carbohydrate-based biopolymers . This composite material exhibits extraordinary properties , from stretchable and pliable cell boundaries to solid protective shells . Cellulose , a linear glucose polymer , is synthesized and secreted across the plasma membrane by cellulose synthase ( CesA ) , of which plants express multiple isoforms . Different subsets of CesA isoforms are necessary for primary and secondary cell wall biogenesis . Here , we structurally and functionally characterize the Glycine max ( soybean ) primary cell wall CesAs CesA1 , CesA3 , and CesA The CesA isoforms exhibit robust in vitro catalytic activity . Cryo-electron microscopy analyses reveal their assembly into homotrimeric complexes in vitro in which each CesA protomer forms a cellulose-conducting transmembrane channel with a large lateral opening . Biochemical and co-purification analyses demonstrate that different CesA isoforms interact in vitro , leading to synergistic cellulose biosynthesis . Interactions between CesA trimers are only observed between different CesA isoforms and require the class-specific region ( CSR ) . The CSR forms a hook-shaped extension of CesA ' s catalytic domain at the cytosolic water-lipid interface . Negative stain and cryo-electron microscopy analyses of mixtures of different CesA isoform trimers reveal their side-by-side arrangement into loose clusters . Our data suggest a model by which CesA homotrimers of different isoforms assemble into cellulose synthase complexes to synthesize and secrete multiple cellulose chains for microfibril formation . Inter-trimer interactions are mediated by fuzzy interactions between their CSR extensions .
The metastasis of triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) usually contributes to the failure of treatment . Centromere Protein F ( CENPF ) can induce proliferation and metastasis in TNBC . Nevertheless , the upstream mechanism of CENPF in BC remains unclear . Western blot and RT-qPCR were employed for testing the levels of PSMD14 , E2F1 , and CENPF , and cell migration was assessed using the Transwell assay . Additionally , the CCK8 assay was applied to investigate cell viability , and C11-BODIPY 581/591 was applied to assess the lipid ROS level . ChIP and dual luciferase assays were used to examine the association between E2F1 and the CENPF promoter . The interaction between PSMD14 and E2F1 was verified using Co-IP . Knockdown of CENPF could significantly inhibit migration and invasion in TNBC cells . In addition , the silencing of CENPF aggravated arachidonic acid metabolism-induced ferroptosis in TNBC cells . Meanwhile , E2F1 knockdown greatly inhibited the expressions of CENPF and attenuated TNBC cell invasion and migration by decreasing its binding with the CENPF promoter . More importantly , PSMD14 could suppress arachidonic acid metabolism-induced ferroptosis in TNBC cells through the E2F1/CENPF axis . The PSMD14/E2F1 axis-mediated CENPF could promote the metastasis of TNBC by inhibiting arachidonic acid metabolism-induced ferroptosis . This research might bring novel insights into discovering methods for alleviating tumor metastasis in TNBC .
Risk of cardiovascular side effects associated with the agonistic effect on the sympathetic nervous system provided by the medical treatment of ADHD is continuously debated . Any causal relationship has yet to be proven but observational findings suggest an increased risk of cardiovascular disease associated with treatment - especially higher doses over longer periods . Follow-up with clinical assessment , blood pressure , and resting heart rate is advised . Electrocardiograms and measurements of lipid- and HbA1c levels might also often be advisable in adults , as argued in this review .
Ferroptosis is a newly identified cell death triggered by iron-induced lipid peroxidation . Numerous studies reveal that ferroptosis participates in multiple types of tissue injury including ischaemia-reperfusion ( I/R ) injury and doxorubicin ( Dox ) -induced damage . Targeting ferroptosis is a promising approach for disease treatment as the blockade of ferroptosis efficiently alleviates the symptoms . However , no known ferroptosis inhibitors have been used for clinical treatment . Although certain clinical compounds act as ferroptosis inhibitors in vitro , whether these drugs cure tissue injury by suppressing ferroptosis is little known . Here , by screening a large panel of drugs used in the clinic , it is identified that dipyridamole significantly attenuates Dox or I/R-induced cardiac injury . Moreover , dipyridamole can achieve a good therapeutic effect on liver and kidney injury . Mechanistically , dipyridamole-mediated ferroptosis inhibition is strictly dependent on solute carrier family 7 member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) . Dipyridamole down-regulates the expression of ring finger protein 126 ( RNF126 ) , which is an E3 ligase to ubiquitinate SLC7A11 for proteasome degradation . Deficiency of SLC7A11 largely blocks the protective role of dipyridamole in vitro and in vivo . Together , the findings uncover that dipyridamole acts as a clinical compound to alleviate organ injury via suppressing ferroptosis , providing novel insights into the clinical therapy for ferroptosis-related tissue damage .
AIMS : The pathogenic mechanisms of moyamoya disease ( MMD ) remain unrecognized . Although genetic predisposition and hemodynamic changes have been focused on , emerging evidence suggests dyslipidemia may also contribute to MMD . Here , we performed a comprehensive analysis of lipid profiles , aiming to elucidate potential mechanisms in MMD . METHODS : In this prospective case-control study , 222 MMD patients and 231 healthy controls ( HCs ) were enrolled . The comprehensive lipid profiling was performed , encompassing standard lipids , apolipoproteins , oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( oxLDL ) , and small dense LDL ( sdLDL ) . Statistical models of weighted quantile sum ( WQS ) and Bayesian kernel machine regression ( BKMR ) were applied to capture individual and joint lipid effects on MMD risk . RESULTS : Compared with HCs , MMD patients exhibited significantly higher oxLDL , sdLDL , and lipoprotein ( a ) ( p < 05 ) . OxLDL emerged as a robust independent risk factor for MMD ( adjusted OR 146 , 95% CI 102-210 , p < 001 ) . WQS analysis further identified oxLDL as the single greatest contributor to MMD risk , with additional support from BKMR showing marked synergistic interactions between oxLDL and homocysteine . CONCLUSIONS : The study revealed a comprehensive dyslipidemic landscape in MMD , highlighting oxLDL as a pivotal biomarker . The results underscored the significance of lipid metabolism in MMD pathogenesis , warranting further investigation to guide novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies .
BACKGROUND : Neurodevelopment is a multifaceted and tightly regulated process essential for the formation , maturation , and functional specialization of the nervous system . It spans critical stages , including cellular proliferation , differentiation , migration , synaptogenesis , and synaptic pruning , which collectively establish the foundation for cognitive , behavioral , and emotional functions . Metabolism serves as a cornerstone for neurodevelopment , providing the energy and substrates necessary for biosynthesis , signaling , and cellular activities . RESULTS : Key metabolic pathways , including glycolysis , lipid metabolism , and amino acid metabolism , support processes such as cell proliferation , myelination , and neurotransmitter synthesis . Crucial signaling pathways , such as insulin , mTOR , and AMPK , further regulate neuronal growth , synaptic plasticity , and energy homeostasis . Dysregulation of these metabolic processes is linked to a spectrum of neurodevelopmental disorders , including autism spectrum disorders ( ASDs ) , intellectual disabilities , and epilepsy . CONCLUSIONS : This review investigates the intricate interplay between metabolic processes and neurodevelopment , elucidating the molecular mechanisms that govern brain development and the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders . Additionally , it highlights potential avenues for the development of innovative strategies aimed at enhancing brain health and function .
Nitrogen ( N ) is a key macronutrient whose availability often determines maize growth and productivity . Improving nitrogen use efficiency ( NUE ) is critical to increase maize yield while reducing N input , and more importantly , alleviating environmental pollution . However , only a few genes have been exploited for maize NUE improvement thus far . Here , we identified 44 candidate genes associated with NUE-related traits by performing a genome-wide association analysis in a maize natural population . We further found that the natural variations in ZmNRL1 , encoding a DUF630 and DUF632 domains-containing protein , strongly associated with chlorophyll content under N starvation . Loss function of ZmNRL1 reduced nitrogen content and weakened plant growth under hydroponic and soil conditions , whereas overexpression of ZmNRL1 conferred better tolerance to N stress and elevated yields in transgenic maize and Arabidopsis . Comparative transcriptome analysis further revealed that ZmNRL1 has a broad impact on the expression of many N utilization and signaling genes . Moreover , we showed that ZmNRL1 anchored to the plasma membrane likely through the dual lipid modifications of myristoylation and palmitoylation . Thus , we propose that ZmNRL1 is a key regulator of the adaptation response to N limitation in maize and could be a potential target for breeding high-yield maize with enhanced NUE .
Bio-based surfactants , derived from microbial fermentation , are appealing biocompatible amphiphiles traditionally employed in depollution , pest control , personal care , cosmetics , and medicine , although their potential in biomedical scaffolds remains largely unexplored due to the limited adaptability of their rheological properties for extrusion-based 3D printing . This work demonstrates that microbial biosurfactants can function as low-molecular-weight gelators with facile , tunable rheological functionalities , enabling their integration into additive-free 3D printing processes . A hydrogel , formed by complexing a single-glucose oleyl lipid surfactant with calcium ions , exhibits shear-thinning behavior , viscoelasticity , yield stress , thixotropic response , and elongational properties , all essential for extrusion-based printing . A comprehensive rheological study reveals that the hydrogel ' s shear-thinning behavior allows controlled extrusion using conventional methods , while its yield stress ensures structural integrity by resisting capillary and gravitational stresses during deposition . Furthermore , the hydrogel demonstrates rapid stress recovery , enabling it to rebuild yield stress post-extrusion and prevent spreading . It ' s controlled fragility under stretching and shear ensures that structures can be printed without significant deformation , maintaining high fidelity throughout the process . Beyond its printability , the hydrogel exhibits stimuli-responsive functionality , particularly pH sensitivity , unlocking opportunities for 4D printing applications , where material properties evolve dynamically post-fabrication . This work positions biosurfactant-based hydrogels as a sustainable , high-performance material platform , paving the way for the use of this class of molecules for soft material engineering . FAU - Fragal , Elizangela Hafemann
Intramuscular fat ( IMF ) content is a critical factor influencing the quality and palatability of pork . However , established breeding and nutritional methods lead to systemic fat deposition . The efficient and specific methods to increase IMF content in livestock remain a challenge . In this study , Lipid droplets ( LDs ) , an organelle in cells , are shown to be a controllable and biocompatible carrier that can be used to increase IMF content . This study demonstrated that isolated LDs stimulate lipid synthesis by encapsulating Oleic Acid ( OA ) , a PPARgamma ligand . Importantly , artificial LDs ( aLDs ) can effectively substitute isolated LDs . In vivo , investigations showed that OA-loading aLDs significantly increased the expression of lipid synthases such as DGAT2 and FASN through activation of PPARgamma , a key pathway for lipid synthesis . Furthermore , the IMF content on the injected side is increased up to 35% with minimal side effects . The development of OA-aLDs promotes IMF deposition and demonstrates the significant potential of aLDs as drug carriers . The exploration of LDs-based carriers provides a new theoretical basis for their application in the medical field .
Toludesvenlafaxine hydrochloride sustained-release tablets , as China ' s first independently developed chemical Class 1 innovative drug with independent intellectual property rights for the treatment of depression and a new molecular entity , represent a novel triple reuptake inhibitor ( TRI ) with specific target selectivity for serotonin ( 5-HT ) , norepinephrine ( NE ) , and dopamine ( DA ) . This single-arm , multicenter clinical study aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of toludesvenlafaxine in alleviating anhedonia symptoms in patients with major depressive disorder ( MDD ) . A total of 123 patients aged 18-65 years were enrolled between April 2023 and April 2024 and received an 8-week treatment with toludesvenlafaxine sustained-release tablets ( 80-160 mg/day ) . The primary efficacy endpoint was the change in the total score of the Dimensional Anhedonia Rating Scale ( DARS ) at weeks 2 , 4 , and Significant improvements in DARS scores were observed , with mean changes from baseline of 4 ( 95% CI [4 , 4] , p < 0001 ) , 1 ( 95% CI [0 , 2] , p < 0001 ) , and 4 ( 95% CI [0 , 9] , p < 0001 ) , respectively . Additionally , after 8 weeks of treatment , plasma levels of neurotrophic factors , including mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( mBDNF ) ( t = 78 , p < 0001 ) , pro-BDNF ( t = 71 , p < 0001 ) , and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) ( t = 07 , p < 0001 ) , were significantly increased , and the plasma level of IGF-1 was not significantly changed ( t = 35 , p=7269 ) . No association was found between the percentage of changes in neurotrophic factors and the percentage of symptom improvements . Toludesvenlafaxine was generally well-tolerated , with treatment-emergent adverse events ( AEs ) ( TEAEs ) reported in 7% of participants and treatment-related AEs ( TRAEs ) in 4% . These findings indicate that toludesvenlafaxine hydrochloride sustained-release tablets are safe , well-tolerated , and effective in alleviating anhedonia symptoms in patients with depression . Trial Registration : http : //www . chictr . org . cn ( No . : ChiCTR2300070331 ) .
INTRODUCTION : Diabetes , affecting 3% of young adults in Mexico , is influenced by both genetic factors and shared unhealthy habits within families . OBJECTIVE : To determine the metabolic abnormalities in relatives of people with T2D , stratified by body mass index . MATERIALS AND METHODS : This observational , descriptive study was conducted at the Center for Comprehensive Care for Patients with Diabetes ( CAIPaDi ) . The study involved relatives of participants with type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) , recruited between June 2017 and December The relatives were people without diabetes , including spouses , siblings , offspring , or close family members aged 18 to 65 who spent over four days a week with the patient . Exclusion criteria included relatives diagnosed with diabetes , smokers , or any individual from a patient-relative pair that was excluded . All participants underwent laboratory tests and body measurements . Relatives were classified into three groups based on body weight : normal weight , overweight , and obesity . The relatives attended four monthly visits and then annual evaluations . Ethical approval was obtained . RESULTS : The study enrolled 220 relatives of people with T2DM , 69% women , median age 49+/-12 years ; 5% with normal weight , 4% overweight , and 40% with obesity . Prediabetes ( 4% ) , dyslipidemia ( 2% ) , and abnormal liver function tests ( 2% ) were prevalent . Higher levels of triglycerides and LDL cholesterol were associated with increased risk for comorbid conditions . Anxiety and depression showed no significant differences across weight categories . CONCLUSION : These results highlight the importance of overweight and obesity as factors associated with the presence of comorbidities and the metabolic syndrome . It is essential to implement strategies to promote healthy habits among family members of people with diabetes , especially in those who are overweight or obese to reduce the risk of developing future metabolic and cardiovascular diseases .
Diet selection informs the health , fitness , and behavior of wild predators . Due to assumptions that vertebrate prey contains similar compositions of macronutrients ( i . e . , protein , carbohydrates , and lipids ) , whole prey items traditionally define carnivore diets . However , increasing evidence suggests that prey differ in terms of their macronutrient compositions , particularly relative to body size . Furthermore , omnivorous predators , like coyotes ( Canis latrans ) , integrate both prey and nonprey diet items whose macronutrient compositions vary . This is particularly important in urbanized systems , which introduce or alter the distributions of prey ( e . g . , domestic pets ) and nonprey ( e . g . , ornamental plants ) foods in ways that contribute to carnivore diet selection and human-wildlife coexistence . We assessed the macronutrient composition of coyote diets seasonally and relative to urbanization in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area , AZ , USA . We collected coyote scats in the field and assessed their macronutrient compositions using values gathered from the literature , as well as the volumetric composition of diet items found in coyote scats . We then assessed the macronutrient composition of coyote diets in geometric space using the geometric framework of nutrition . We observed that the macronutrient composition of coyote diets was similar between moderately and less urbanized sites , particularly in the spring-summer season . However , coyote macronutrient consumption differed seasonally , with coyotes eating more nonprotein energy relative to protein energy when carbohydrate-rich mesquite ( Prosopis spp . ) was more available in the fall-winter . Our results suggest that the seasonal availability and macronutrient composition of foods contribute to coyote diets . Macronutrients directly translate to energy and subsequent animal physiology and behavior . Our findings therefore advance our understanding of coyote behavior , particularly in ways that support human-wildlife management in anthropogenic areas .
The aim of the study was to analyze the variables that modify the levels of oxidative DNA damage and lipid peroxidation in non-smoking mothers and their newborns from environmentally distinct localities of the Czech Republic : Ceske Budejovice ( CB , an agricultural region ) and Karvina ( an industrial region ) . Personal , socio-economic and medical data , concentrations of particulate matter of aerodynamic diameter < 5 microm ( PM5 ) and benzo[a]pyrene ( B[a]P ) in the ambient air , the activities of antioxidant mechanisms ( superoxide dismutase , catalase , glutathione peroxidase ) and antioxidant capacity ) , the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines , the concentrations of persistent organic pollutants ( POPs ) in blood plasma/cord blood plasma and urinary levels of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons metabolites ( OH-PAHs ) were investigated as parameters potentially affecting the markers of DNA oxidation ( 8-oxo-7 , 8-dihydro-2 ' -deoxyguanosine , 8-oxodG ) and lipid peroxidation ( 15-Ft-isoprostane , 15-Ft-IsoP ) . Significantly higher levels of POPs were detected in the plasma of mothers/newborns from CB ( p < 001 ) , while increased external levels of B[a]P and PM5 , confirmed by analyzing urinary OH-PAHs , were found in Karvina subjects ( p < 001 ) . In mothers , multivariate analysis showed no significant difference in oxidative stress markers ( 15-Ft-IsoP , 8-oxodG ) between the two localities . The analysis further revealed that neither in CB nor , unexpectedly , in Karvina , did PAH exposure affect maternal lipid peroxidation . Significant associations between OH-PAHs and 15-Ft-IsoP or 8-oxodG were observed only in newborns . In addition , multivariate analyses revealed a borderline significant association between locality and 8-oxodG in the urine of all newborns ( p = 05 ) . In conclusion , not only the maternal exposure of PAHs but also some POPs can negatively affect oxidative stress status in the early-life of newborns .
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is a common liver condition resulting from metabolic syndrome characterized by fat accumulation in the liver . It is often associated with obesity and diabetes , contributing to hepatic steatosis in liver cells . The prevalence of NAFLD is increasing globally , with 32% of the adult population affected . Genetic modifiers , such as single nucleotide polymorphisms , can increase susceptibility to the disease . Gene expression analysis and genetic variation can help identify disease-causing pathways and reveal biomarkers involved in NAFLD . This study employed integrative bioinformatics analysis , including bulk RNA-seq and single-cell RNA-seq , to explore differentially expressed genes and their genetic variants in NAFLD vs . control and NAFLD vs . cirrhosis , highlighting genes influencing NAFLD progression . Moreover , this study identified AKR1D1 , LIPC , UGT2B17 , DGAT2 , and SERPINE1 implicated in metabolic , immune , and lipid functions while being overexpressed in both hepatocyte cells among obese patients identified and validated through Liver Cell Atlas , highlighting their pivotal role in the pathogenesis of the disease in obese patients through perturbed hepatocytes . Furthermore , novel pathogenic variants of AKR1D1 , LIPC , and SERPINE1 , associated with congenital bile acid synthesis defects , abnormal circulating lipid concentrations , and plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 deficiency conditions , were identified . Conclusively , this integrative multiomics study highlights the novel pathogenic variants of AKR1D1 , LIPC , and SERPINE1 in metabolic , immune , and lipid pathways that are highly expressed among hepatocytes in obese patients while possibly carrying pathogenic mutations that may be associated with NAFLD , emphasizing their potential as novel targets for therapeutic strategies and biomarker development in early diagnosis and treatment before the onset of cirrhosis or hepatocellular carcinoma .
This study presents the chemical synthesis and biological evaluation of a series of gold ( I ) -N-heterocyclic carbene complexes as potential anticancer agents . The compounds demonstrated broad activity against various cancer cell lines , exhibiting cytotoxicity in the low micromolar range . Mechanistic investigations revealed that these complexes preferentially accumulate in the mitochondria of cancer cells , where they induce the generation of reactive oxygen species and lipid peroxides , ultimately triggering ferroptosis . Further studies in multicellular tumor spheroids confirmed the compounds ' ability to penetrate three-dimensional cellular structures and effectively eradicate them at low micromolar concentrations . This work represents the first known example of a gold ( I ) -N-heterocyclic carbene complex inducing ferroptosis , expanding the therapeutic potential of gold ( I ) -based metallodrugs .
BACKGROUND : Hormonal imbalance , mitochondrial dysfunctions , and oxidative stress ( OS ) have been implicated in the pathogenesis of polycystic ovarian syndrome ( PCOS ) and its associated clinical features . A sedentary lifestyle , exposure to air pollutants , prenatal exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals , processed and nutritionally depleted food , rich in trans fats , salts , and sugars , and high BMI specifically in visceral adiposity induce OS . OS damages the mitochondrial DNA , lipids , and proteins that impair mitochondrial function . Sequentially , dysfunctional mitochondria produce more reactive oxygen species that aggravate the OS . Mitochondria is pivotal for ovarian cell functioning for instance steroidogenesis , ovarian follicle development , and energy metabolism . Dysfunctional mitochondria can alter the ovarian follicle functioning leading to ovulatory dysfunction and infertility in PCOS . AIMS AND OBJECTIVES : This study is designed to investigate the effect of 12-week yoga practice on endocrine parameters , OS , and mitochondrial health , comparing outcomes in yoga and non-yoga groups . MATERIAL AND METHODS : A total of 75 participants , 32 PCOS females who completed yoga intervention in the yoga group and 29 in the nonyoga group . Hormonal levels were assessed through an immunoassay , while mitochondrial health markers , such as mtDNA copy number ( mtDNA CN ) , reactive oxygen species , and lipid peroxidation were measured through quantitative polymerase chain reaction ( qPCR ) , chemiluminescence , and ELISA respectively . Gene expression related to mitochondrial integrity , respiratory chain , and inflammation was analyzed via reverse transcription qPCR . Additionally , depression severity was also assessed using beck depression inventory II . RESULT : The Yoga group showed a significant increase in mtDNA-CN and upregulation of transcripts responsible for maintaining mitochondrial integrity and the mitochondrial respiratory chain . In addition , the post-yoga group shows a reduction in , lipid peroxidation , inflammatory , OS markers , and an improvement in telomere length . CONCLUSION : Yoga positively affects hormonal balance , mitochondrial health , OS , and inflammation in women with PCOS . It also alleviates depression symptoms , highlighting yoga as an effective adjunct therapy for managing PCOS . Regular yoga practice could prevent , delay , and help in managing PCOS symptoms .
Ferroptosis , since its conceptualization in 2012 , has witnessed an exponential growth in research interest over recent years . It is regulated by various cellular metabolic pathways during chronic cerebral ischemia and hypoxia , including reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation , iron accumulation , abnormalities in glutathione metabolism , and disruptions in lipid and glucose metabolism . With the deepening and widespread research , ferroptosis has emerged as a critical pathway in the pathogenesis of vascular cognitive impairment and dementia ( VCID ) . This unique cell death pathway caused by iron-dependent phospholipid peroxidation is strongly related to VICD . We examine the impact of phospholipid composition on neuronal susceptibility to ferroptosis , with a particular focus on the critical role of polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) in this process . Intriguingly , peroxisomes , as key regulators of lipid metabolism and oxidative stress , influence the susceptibility of neuronal cells to ferroptosis through the synthesis of plasmalogens and other lipid species . In this Review , we provide a critical analysis of the current molecular mechanisms and regulatory networks of acupuncture for ferroptosis , the potential functions of acupuncture in peroxisomal functions and phospholipid metabolism , and its neuroprotective effects in VCID , together with a potential for therapeutic targeting . As such , this highlights the theoretical basis for the application of acupuncture in VCID through multi-target regulation of ferroptosis . This review underscores the potential of acupuncture as a non-pharmacological therapeutic approach in VCID , offering new insights into its role in modulating ferroptosis and associated metabolic pathways for neuroprotection .
BACKGROUND : Cancer is a devastating disease with varying mortality rates and severe treatment side effects . Researchers are exploring alternative treatments that target cancer cells with high selectivity and minimal side effects . Photothermal therapy has shown promise as one such treatment option . OBJECTIVES : Single-walled carbon nanotubes ( SWCNTs ) and multi-walled carbon nanotubes ( MWCNTs ) can penetrate cellular membranes and convert near-infrared light into heat for photothermal therapy ( PTT ) . METHODS : In a recent study , carbon nanotubes ( CNTs ) were used in combination with PTT to treat HT29 and PCL/PRF/5 cancerous cells for different durations ( 6 , 12 , 24 , 48 , and 72 hours ) . The cytotoxicity of each treatment was evaluated through MTT assay , reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) analysis , lipid peroxidation , lysosomal membrane integrity , and protein carbonyl analysis . RESULTS : The study found that SWCNTs , MWCNTs , and PTT each individually had a significant cytotoxic effect on cancer cells . However , when used together , they were even more effective in destroying cancer cells . Combining SWCNTs with PTT resulted in the highest level of cytotoxicity . CONCLUSIONS : These findings suggest that using CNTs , especially SWCNTs , in combination with PTT shows promise for treating cancer .
Rationale : Adipose tissue buffers dietary lipids to maintain postprandial lipid homeostasis . Adipose tissue macrophages ( ATMs ) mediate the phagocytosis of postprandial lipids from the exogenous diet , generating high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) particles that facilitate lipid circulation and excretion . However , the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood . This study investigates the effects of esculetin , a coumarin compound , on postprandial cholesterol circulation and excretion following a high-fat meal . Methods : Mice were fed a lipid-rich meal for three days to assess the effects of esculetin on postprandial lipid circulation , using serum lipid profiling and metabolomics analysis . Epididymal white adipose tissue ( eWAT ) removal and flow cytometry were performed to analyze ATMs and confirm their role in mediating esculetin ' s effects on postprandial lipemia . Epigenetic profiling , transcriptome analysis , chromatin immunoprecipitation , and Terahertz chemical microscopy were employed to elucidate the molecular targets and mechanisms of esculetin . Results : Esculetin significantly elevates postprandial HDL cholesterol levels to values comparable to pitavastatin and modifies serum metabolites involved in bile-mediated cholesterol excretion , leading to increased bile acid concentrations in the bile . This effect is mediated by an increased ratio and phagocytic activity of a subset of ATMs expressing the scavenger receptor CD36 , as eWAT removal and CD36 blockade inhibit this response . Furthermore , esculetin enhances the uptake of oxidized LDL via CD36 , as demonstrated in cultured macrophages , and induces epigenetic changes controlled by the key transcription factor C/EBPbeta , accompanied by increased C/EBPbeta binding to the Cd36 promoter . A direct interaction between esculetin and C/EBPbeta was observed using Terahertz chemical microscopy . Additionally , the activation of C/EBPbeta by esculetin in ATMs was confirmed in vivo . Conclusion : Esculetin accelerates postprandial lipid circulation by binding to C/EBPbeta and enhancing CD36-dependent phagocytosis in ATMs .
Background : Glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , an important factor regulating redox homeostasis , plays an important role in tumor microenvironment and progression . However , the role of GPX4 in gastric cancer ( GC ) is unclear . Methods : Spectral flow cytometry and multiplex immunohistochemistry were employed to assess the correlation between GPX4 expression and immune cell infiltration . Metabolomics analysis of conditioned media from GPX4 knockdown NUGC3 cells identified metabolic alterations . Additionally , both in vitro and in vivo functional studies were conducted to elucidate the mechanistic role of GPX4 in regulating the tumor microenvironment and progression . Results : Knockdown of GPX4 in GC cells inhibited tumor growth , enhanced CD8 ( + ) T cell infiltration , and suppressed the polarization of tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) toward the pro-tumor M2 phenotype . Multiplex immunohistochemistry revealed a positive correlation between GPX4 expression and M2 macrophage infiltration in clinical samples from patients with GC . Metabolomics revealed that GPX4 knockdown regulate kynurenine metabolism pathway . Furthermore , mechanistic studies reveal that GPX4 silencing elevates lipid peroxidation , triggering the conversion of KYNU ubiquitin chain modifications from K48 to K Such ubiquitination remodeling stabilizes KYNU expression ( a key kynurenine-metabolizing enzyme ) , reduces kynurenine accumulation , and ultimately reprograms TAM polarization to enhance antitumor immunity . We also identified that the K96 and K163 sites are important for KYNU ' s modification by K48 and K63 ubiquitin chains . Conclusion : Our study not only affirm the role of GPx4 in GC progression but also highlight it as a promising target for reshaping the immune microenvironment .
Rationale : Prostate cancer ( PCa ) growth is facilitated by the androgen receptor ( AR ) and its downstream signaling pathways , making AR-targeted therapy crucial for treating advanced stages . Despite this , the response to AR-targeted therapies is inconsistent , with a significant proportion of patients even exhibiting unresponsiveness to therapy from the outset , known as primary resistance . Therefore , a refined categorization framework is imperative for the timely detection of resistant phenotypes and the exploration of novel therapeutic avenues . Methods : Tissue microarrays and clinical cohorts were employed to delineate the impact of APOE on the prognostic outcomes and therapeutic resistance in PCa patients . Employing flow cytometry , immunoprecipitation , and mass spectrometry , we dissected the molecular underpinnings of APOE ' s role in conferring resistance to AR-targeted interventions . Single-cell RNA sequencing elucidated the intricate transcriptomic profiles of PCa with elevated APOE expression . Additionally , the therapeutic potential of anti-PD-L1 agents in treating PCa with APOE induction was rigorously assessed . Results : In this study , we elucidated the pivotal role of APOE in mediating primary resistance to AR-targeted therapy in PCa through the suppression of AR signaling pathways . Mechanistically , APOE was found to enhance the ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of AR by mediating the interaction between the E3-ligase TRIM25 and AR , concurrently dampening the transcriptional activity of AR . Additionally , elevated APOE expression was correlated with an augmented response to anti-PD-L1 treatment , hinting at the therapeutic advantage of immunotherapy in APOE-high PCa contexts . Conclusions : APOE expression could serve as a prognostic biomarker , pivotal for forecasting responses to both AR-targeted therapy and immunotherapy , thereby offering an innovative strategy for the personalized selection of treatment modalities in PCa .
Rationale : Sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy is characterized by microvascular injury , which is linked to lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced DNA damage response ( DDR ) . This study investigates the role of DNA-PKcs , a key enzyme in the DDR pathway , in driving actin disruption and microvascular dysfunction following LPS exposure . Methods : We analyzed diverse transcriptomic datasets from septic human and murine models using bioinformatics tools to assess DDR pathway activation , correlations , and prognosis . In vivo , LPS-challenged mice were treated with inhibitors of DNA-PKcs or mitochondrial fission , and we evaluated cardiac function , microvascular integrity , mitochondrial status , and actin polymerization . Results : Bioinformatic analyses consistently revealed significant activation of the DDR pathway and upregulation of key genes across diverse septic models . Notably , elevated DDR pathway activity was significantly correlated with poor 28-day survival in human sepsis patients . Single-cell analysis localized this DDR gene upregulation predominantly to cardiac endothelial cells ( ECs ) , fibroblasts , and macrophages during sepsis . Within septic capillary ECs , DDR pathway activity scores strongly correlated spatially and functionally with heightened mitochondrial fission and cytoskeletal remodeling pathway activities . In vivo experiments confirmed that LPS induced severe systolic and diastolic dysfunction , microvascular damage , and mitochondrial fragmentation , as well as significant actin depolymerization . Inhibition of DNA-PKcs with NU7441 markedly attenuated all these LPS-induced pathologies , improving cardiac function , preserving microvascular structure , preventing mitochondrial fragmentation , and normalizing related gene expression and actin cytoskeleton stability . Additionally , inhibiting mitochondrial fission with Mdivi-1 significantly ameliorated LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction and microvascular injury . Conclusions : Our findings suggest that LPS triggers a DNA-PKcs-dependent DDR that promotes mitochondrial fragmentation and actin disruption , particularly in cardiac ECs , contributing to sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy . Targeting DNA-PKcs or mitochondrial fission may hold therapeutic potential for the treatment of sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy .
Cerebrosides , a class of biologically important lipids , are comprised of a monosaccharide head group along with their ceramide tail . However , their accurate characterization is challenging because of the isomerism in both the tail , from potential double bond positioning , or in the head from monosaccharide composition and alphabeta anomericity . In this work , we focused on tackling the identification of the beta-monosaccharide head group , as either glucose or galactose , in various cerebroside isomers as well as demonstrating how our methodology could be applied to unknowns found in a porcine extract . To achieve this , we performed collision-induced dissociation prior to cyclic ion mobility separations to generate monosaccharide fragment ions from the starting cerebroside precursor ions . With this pre-cIMS CID approach , we observed that the cIMS separations of the fragment ions were diagnostic of the beta-monosaccharide head group composition ( i . e . , glucose versus galactose ) , regardless of the ceramide tail length . From there , we demonstrated an example of how this methodology could also be applied to cerebrosides found in a porcine extract and a framework for how this approach could be added to existing workflows in developing collision cross section databases . Overall , we envision that our developed pre-cIMS CID-based approach will be a complementary and orthogonal tool to existing ones in glycolipidomics workflows . FAU - Naylor , Cameron N
BACKGROUND : Acne vulgaris is a chronic inflammatory skin condition that significantly impacts an individual ' s quality of life , affecting social interactions , self-esteem and body image . It primarily targets the pilosebaceous unit , where inflammation occurs . Lipid metabolism is crucial in maintaining the skin barrier and modulating inflammatory responses , with specific fatty acids , such as omega-3 and sphingomyelin acid , playing key roles . Previous studies have highlighted associations between specific dietary habits and acne , yet the precise relationship between lipid profiles , particular fatty acids , dietary patterns and acne , remains inadequately understood . This gap in knowledge necessitates a deeper investigation into the mechanisms linking lipid metabolism with acne risk . OBJECTIVES : To investigate the causal association between acne risk and 143 dietary habits alongside 229 blood metabolite markers , focusing on lipid metabolism . METHODS : Using a Mendelian randomization ( MR ) framework , we leveraged summary statistics data from genome-wide association studies to explore the associations between blood lipid metabolites , dietary factors and acne risk . We used statistical correction methods , including Bonferroni and false discovery rate ( FDR ) adjustments , to identify robust significant associations . RESULTS : Our MR analysis identified 10 lipid metabolites significantly associated with acne risk . After applying Bonferroni and FDR corrections , we pinpointed 10 and 27 serum indices or metabolites , respectively , as significantly linked to acne risk . The most prominent protective factors against acne included a higher ratio of polyunsaturated fatty acids to monounsaturated fatty acids ( MUFAs ) [odds ratio ( OR ) 73 , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) 65-83 , P = 96x10-7] ; a higher ratio of docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) to total fatty acids ( OR 80 , 95% CI 72-88 , P = 64x10-6 ) ; and a higher ratio of omega-3 fatty acids to total fatty acids ( OR 86 , 95% CI 80-92 , P = 54x10-6 ) and sphingomyelin acid ( OR 80 , 95% CI 72-88 , P = 03x10-5 ) . Conversely , the most significant risk factors for acne included elevated ratio of MUFAs to total fatty acids ( OR 27 , 95% CI 14-40 , P = 21x10-6 ) , higher ratio of triglycerides to total lipids in large high-density lipoprotein ( OR 23 , 95% CI 12-36 , P = 36x10-5 ) and an increased ratio of omega-6 to omega-3 fatty acids ( OR 16 , 95% CI 08-24 , P = 19x10-5 ) . CONCLUSION : Our study highlights the causal relationship between lipid markers and acne . Specifically , we identified 10 lipid traits , including monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fatty acids , omega-3/omega-6 and sphingomyelins , that influence acne development . These findings align with existing evidence on the role of lipids in skin health and comedogenesis . Further research is warranted to explore underlying mechanisms and assess the impact of dietary fats on acne , as well as to evaluate targeted interventions for diverse patient subgroups .
BACKGROUND : The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index , derived from the calculation of two biomarkers , fasting plasma glucose and triglyceride levels , is a reliable indicator of insulin resistance and has been demonstrated to be associated with the adverse clinical outcomes of patients in the intensive care unit ( ICU ) . This study aims to investigate the relationship between the TyG index and the 28-day all-cause mortality of these patients during their ICU stay . METHODS : This study employed a multicenter retrospective cohort design , analyzing data from 18 , 883 ICU patients in the eICU database . We calculated the TyG index for each patient and assessed its association with 28-day all-cause mortality . The Cox proportional hazards model was utilized for analysis , adjusting for various clinical and laboratory variables to control for confounding factors . We performed sensitivity analyses , subgroup analyses , and interaction analyses to evaluate the robustness of the results . RESULTS : The study identified a significant positive correlation between the TyG index and 28-day all-cause mortality . Specifically , each one-unit increase in the TyG index corresponded to a 58% increase in mortality risk ( HR=58 , 95% CI : 25-00 , P=0001 ) . Additionally , the analysis revealed a non-linear threshold effect of the TyG index on mortality , with a cutoff point at 82 ; mortality was lower below this value and significantly increased above it . Sensitivity and subgroup analyses indicated robust findings , while E-value analysis suggested resilience against unmeasured confounding . CONCLUSION : This study establishes the TyG index as an independent predictor of 28-day all-cause mortality in critically ill patients , highlighting its potential value in clinical management and risk assessment . By recognizing the non-linear effect of the TyG index , clinicians can more effectively adjust treatment strategies to reduce mortality among high-risk patients .
OBJECTIVE : Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) as the most common chronic liver disease is associated with metabolic disorders including dysregulated lipid and glucose metabolism . There is no approved drug treatment for NAFLD ; thus , new therapies are needed . We studied the antidyslipidemic effects of atorvastatin and/or possibly hepatoprotective effects of flaxseed/ flaxseed oil in a rat model of NAFLD . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Fifty-six male Wistar rats were divided randomly into seven groups : 1 ) control , 2 ) high-fructose diet ( HFD ) , 3 ) HFD +atorvastatin ( 20 mg/kg ) , 4 ) HFD+ flaxseed ( 40 g/kg ) , 5 ) HFD+ flaxseed oil ( 40 mg/kg ) , 6 ) HFD+flaxseed ( 40 g/kg ) + atorvastatin ( 20 mg/kg ) and 7 ) HFD+flaxseed oil ( 40 g/kg ) +atorvastatin ( 20 mg/kg ) . The interventions were done for 23 weeks , after which anthropometric indices , lipid profile , liver enzymes , fasting blood glucose , and kidney indices were analyzed . Scoring of hematoxylin-eosin-stained liver sections was used to assess the severity of NAFLD . RESULTS : All the treatments reduced mesenteric fat mass , and the amount of fat around the liver , except in HFD+ flaxseed +atorvastatin group . The interventions improved NAFLD activity score , which considers steatosis , lobular inflammation , and hepatocyte ballooning . However , atorvastatin was most efficient in reducing inflammation and hepatocyte ballooning . While atorvastatin reduced only Gamma-glutamyltransferase ( GGT ) levels , flaxseed or flaxseed oil mono- and combination therapies reduced serum levels of all liver enzymes . The interventions improved the serum lipid profile and all , except atorvastatin decreased fasting blood glucose . CONCLUSION : Flaxseed therapies improved NAFLD-associated liver injuries and dyslipidemia , while atorvastatin mostly reduced hepatocyte ballooning and lobular inflammation . FAU - Eslami , Zahra
ASCVD is a global concern as it has become central to significant morbidity and mortality . LDL-C is the most important modifiable risk factor in developing ASCVD . Therefore , lowering LDL-C levels is paramount to tackling ASCVD ; the lower the LDL-C , the better . Finding the right combination of medications patients are willing to adhere to is necessary for optimal lipid lowering . Inclisiran is a novel LDL-C lowering LLT that has demonstrated around 50% reduction in LDL-C with a low side effect profile . As long-term data is limited for Inclisiran , this retrospective analysis aims to observe whether Inclisiran ' s benefits are sustained as monotherapy and in combination with other LLTs . After 27 months , the clinic found sustained drops in LDL-C of 59% with good adherence . Only 4% of patients reported experiencing side effects , with 1 individual needing to discontinue the medication due to these effects . Our data indicates that incorporating Inclisiran into a patient ' s LDL-C treatment plan can provide long-term LDL-C reduction , thereby helping to decrease cardiovascular events .
BACKGROUND : Colorectal cancer ( CRC ) is a significant global health burden , with current treatment strategies often limited by the TNM classification system ' s inability to fully capture tumor heterogeneity . This study aims to explore the biological functions and prognostic value of differentially expressed ferroptosis-related long non-coding RNAs ( DEFRlncRNAs ) in CRC . METHODS : We utilized the TCGA database to identify DEFRlncRNAs associated with CRC prognosis . Through multivariate Cox regression analysis , we constructed a prognostic model and selected three key lncRNAs : Lnc-SH2D3A-2 , Lnc-LSS-1 , and Lnc-PEX11G- We assessed their expression in CRC and normal colonic epithelial cell lines using qPCR . Further functional assays included ferroptosis induction with RSL3 and Erastin , cell viability assessments , immunofluorescence staining for lipid peroxidation , and Western blot analysis of ferroptosis-related proteins . RESULTS : Our analysis identified 15 DEFRlncRNAs significantly associated with CRC prognosis , with Lnc-SH2D3A-2 , Lnc-LSS-1 , and Lnc-PEX11G-4 showing high basal expression in CRC cell lines . Knockdown of Lnc-LSS-1 and Lnc-PEX11G-4 in HT29 and DLD1 cells resulted in significant inhibition of ferroptosis induced by RSL3 and Erastin . The mechanism behind the suppression of ferroptosis by knockdown of Lnc-LSS-1 and Lnc-PEX11G-4 may involve the inhibition of lipid peroxidation and the upregulation of GPX4 expression . CONCLUSION : DEFRlncRNAs , particularly Lnc-LSS-1 and Lnc-PEX11G-4 , play crucial roles in regulating ferroptosis in CRC . These lncRNAs have potential as novel prognostic markers and therapeutic targets , providing valuable insights for personalized CRC treatment strategies .
INTRODUCTION : Yellow fever ( YFV ) and Zika ( ZIKV ) viruses cause significant morbidity and mortality , despite the existence of an approved YFV vaccine and the development of multiple ZIKV vaccine candidates to date . New technologies may improve access to vaccines against these pathogens . We previously described a nanostructured lipid carrier ( NLC ) -delivered self-amplifying RNA ( saRNA ) vaccine platform with excellent thermostability and immunogenicity , appropriate for prevention of tropical infectious diseases . METHODS : YFV and ZIKV prM-E antigen-expressing saRNA constructs were created using a TC-83 strain Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus-based replicon and complexed with NLC by simple mixing . Monovalent and bivalent vaccine formulations were injected intramuscularly into C57BL/6 mice and Syrian golden hamsters , and the magnitude , durability , and protective efficacy of the resulting immune responses were then characterized . RESULTS AND DISCUSSION : Monovalent vaccines established durable neutralizing antibody responses to their respective flaviviral targets , with little evidence of cross-neutralization . Both vaccines additionally elicited robust antigen-reactive CD4 ( + ) and CD8 ( + ) T cell populations . Notably , humoral responses to YFV saRNA-NLC vaccination were comparable to those in YF-17D-vaccinated animals . Bivalent formulations established humoral and cellular responses against both viral targets , commensurate to those established by monovalent vaccines , without evidence of saRNA interference or immune competition . Finally , both monovalent and bivalent vaccines completely protected mice and hamsters against lethal ZIKV and YFV challenge . We present a bivalent saRNA-NLC vaccine against YFV and ZIKV capable of inducing robust and efficacious neutralizing antibody and cellular immune responses against both viruses . These data support the development of other multivalent saRNA-based vaccines against infectious diseases .
Acetaminophen ( APAP ) -induced liver injury and acute liver failure is a significant clinical problem worldwide ; in addition , APAP overdoses in animals or in cell culture are used as popular models to study drug-induced liver injury mechanisms and test therapeutic interventions . Early assumptions that APAP toxicity is caused by a single mechanism resulting in a defined mode of cell death in hepatocytes had to be questioned when over the years many different mechanisms and modes of cell death were reported . Although many of the contradictory results and conclusions reported over the years can be attributed to lack of understanding of established mechanisms , methodological problems , and misinterpretation of data , it is increasingly recognized that some of the reported differences in signaling mechanisms and even a switch in the mode of cell death can be caused by variations in the experimental conditions . In this review , examples will be discussed how experimental conditions ( dose , solvent , etc . ) , the experimental system ( species , strain , and substrain in vivo , cell type , and in vitro conditions ) , and also adaptive responses and off-target effects of genetic manipulations and chemical interventions , can impact the mechanisms of cell death . Given that the conditions will determine the results , it is therefore of critical importance to keep in mind the translational aspect of the experiments , i . e . , the conditions relevant to the human pathophysiology . Only the full appreciation of these issues will lead to reproducible and clinically relevant results that advance our understanding of all facets of the human pathophysiology and identify clinically relevant therapeutic targets . FAU - Jaeschke , Hartmut
The first cysteine ( Cys ) fluorescence sensing-driven flavonol , HIBC ( 3-hydroxy-2- ( 1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl ) -4H-benzo[g]chromen-4-one ) , has been developed as a single fluorescent probe ( SFprobe ) and a photoCORM . This compound is characterized by the simultaneous substitutions at both the A- and B-rings with naphthalene and indole , respectively . Notably , HIBC exhibits remarkable hypersensitivity to minor variations in water fractions ( f ( w ) , vol% in acetonitrile ) ranging from 0% to 15% , enabling in situ real-time visualization of lipid droplets ( LDs ) and the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) with high spatial resolution through distinct dual-colour fluorescence without any crosstalk . Under O , HIBC facilitates the delivery of precisely controlled amounts of CO gas within a therapeutic and safe dosage range to living systems via visible light irradiation . This control is achieved by modulating either the intensity or the duration of the irradiated light or by adjusting the dosage of the photoCORM . Its fluorescence allows for in situ real-time imaging and tracking of intracellular distribution while monitoring CO delivery progress . HIBC is generated from the sensing reaction between the precursor IBCA ( 2- ( 1-methyl-1H-indol-3-yl ) -4-oxo-4H-benzo[g]chromen-3-yl acrylate ) and the Cys . In PBS buffer containing only 30% of DMSO , IBCA can rapidly detect and image both endogenous and exogenous Cys within just 250 seconds . It demonstrates high selectivity-particularly against homocysteine ( Hcy ) and glutathione ( GSH ) -and sensitivity , achieving detection limits as low as 87 nM in live HeLa cells and zebrafish across a wide linear concentration range of 0-10 muM ( 0-2 equiv . ) . Importantly , IBCA also targets LDs and ER while monitoring fluctuations in Cys levels during periods of ER stress . Both IBCA and HIBC , along with all photoreaction products , exhibit negligible toxicity while demonstrating good permeability in live HeLa cells and zebrafish . The HIBC we developed represents a pioneering instance of a flavonol driven by Cys fluorescence sensing that features simultaneous substitutions at both the A-and B-rings with naphthalene and indole moieties , respectively . Compared to the unsubstituted flavonol , these structural improvements not only lead to a substantial red shift of 88 nm in the absorption peak but also significantly enhance the overall performance . It serves not only as an exceptionally water hypersensitive SFprobe for simultaneous dual-colour fluorescence visualization of LDs and ER but also functions effectively as a photoCORM . This work not only provides a method for precise control over CO release but also facilitates the development of user-friendly molecular tools for further investigation into the roles played by LDs , ER , Cys and CO in biological processes , their interactions and relationships among them , along with their potential applications in clinical diagnosis . FAU - Sun , Ying-Ji
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is characterized by increased lipid accumulation and excessive deposition of extracellular matrix ( ECM ) that results in tissue stiffening . The potential interplay between matrix stiffness and hepatocyte lipid accumulation during NAFLD has not been established . Here , an in vitro NAFLD model is developed using chemically defined , engineered hydrogels and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived hepatic organoids ( HOs ) . Specifically , dynamic covalent chemistry crosslinking , along with transient small molecule competitors , are used to create dynamic stiffening hydrogels that enable the reproducible culture of HOs . Within matrices that mimic the stiffness of healthy to diseased tissue ( approximately 1-6 kPa ) , lipid droplet accumulation in HOs is triggered by exposure to an NAFLD-associated free fatty acid . These NAFLD model suggests that higher stiffness microenvironments result in increased hepatic lipid droplet accumulation , increased expression of fibrosis markers , and increased metabolic dysregulation . By targeting the ROCK mechanosignaling pathway , the synergy between matrix stiffness and lipid droplet accumulation is disrupted . The in vitro model of NAFLD has the potential to understand the role of mechanosignaling in disease progression and identify new pathways for therapeutic intervention .
Nile tilapia ( Oreochromis niloticus ) farms face streptococcus agalactiae infections causing mass mortality following economic losses . To date , no commercial fish vaccine is available in India to protect against streptococcosis due to a lack of proper adjuvants and vaccine targets . Multiple studies justify that immunomodulators like beta-glucan and Alkoxy glycerol ( AKG ) have improved immunity in fish . beta-glucan and AKG are natural homopolymers and lipids , respectively , which have proven immunostimulant capabilities in fish and can be effectively used as a prominent adjuvant to improve vaccine efficacy . The present study aims to demonstrate the improved adjuvant efficacy of the formalin-inactivated S . agalactiae vaccine . Nile tilapia fingerlings were immunised with formalin-inactivated S . agalactiae vaccines mixed with beta-glucan and AKG . Each week postvaccination , the serum nonspecific responses were measured by lysozyme , myeloperoxidase , SOD and bactericidal activity . Following the challenge after 28 days postvaccination , the survival rate achieved was 14% , 14% , 57% and 43% in the respective experimental groups . The immune gene expressions of IgM , TCRbeta and MHCII were evoked postvaccination . The specific serum IgM titre values were significantly upregulated in 14- and 28-day postvaccinated experimental groups . The study highlights the enhanced activity of beta-glucan and AKG incorporated vaccine , which has the potency towards commercialisation for sustainable aquaculture .
Sleep deprivation ( SD ) adversely affects cognition , as well as physical and mental health , and is closely linked to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease . The therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms of aromatherapy with Nardostachys jatamansi DC . essential oil on SD-induced myocardial injury remain poorly understood . This study aimed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of aromatherapy with Nardostachys jatamansi DC . essential oil in mitigating SD-induced myocardial injury and to elucidate the associated mechanisms . Electroencephalogram ( EEG ) recordings and behavioral tests were employed to evaluate sleep and emotional responses . Serum myocardial injury markers were quantified using ELISA . Hematoxylin-eosin ( H&E ) , Masson , and wheat germ agglutinin ( WGA ) staining were performed to observe cardiac structure , and electrocardiogram ( ECG ) and echocardiography assessed cardiac function . Differentially expressed gene ( DEG ) analysis of myocardial mRNA from sleep-deprived mice was conducted and cross-referenced with the predicted target genes of Nardostachys jatamansi DC . , followed by functional enrichment analysis . Molecular docking and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations were conducted to investigate compound-target interactions . Cardiac neural remodeling and amino acid metabolism were examined using immunohistochemistry , transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) , Western blotting , and targeted metabolic assays . Aromatherapy with Nardostachys jatamansi DC . essential oil improved brain wave activity and alleviated anxiety and depression in sleep-deprived mice . Additionally , it mitigated SD-induced myocardial injury and restored cardiac function . Mechanistically , the essential oil primarily targeted the MAOA gene , modulating cardiac neural remodeling and amino acid metabolism to alleviate myocardial injury caused by SD . Aromatherapy with Nardostachys jatamansi DC : essential oil alleviates SD-induced myocardial injury by targeting the MAOA gene to regulate cardiac neural remodeling and amino acid metabolism . This study provides novel insights into therapeutic strategies and mechanisms for SD-induced myocardial injury .
Schizophrenia is a complex psychiatric disorder marked by positive and negative symptoms , leading to mood disturbances , cognitive impairments , and social withdrawal . While anti-psychotic medications remain the cornerstone of treatment , they often fail to fully address certain symptoms . Additionally , treatment-resistant schizophrenia , affecting 30%-40% of patients , remains a substantial clinical challenge . Positive , negative symptoms and cognitive impairments have been linked to disruptions in the glutamatergic , serotonin , GABAergic , and muscarinic pathways in the brain . Recent advances using genome-wide association study and other approaches have uncovered a significant number of new schizophrenia risk genes that uncovered new , and reinforced prior , concepts on the genetic and neurological underpinnings of schizophrenia , including abnormalities in synaptic function , immune processes , and lipid metabolism . Concurrently , new therapeutics targeting different modalities , which are expected to address some of the limitations of anti-psychotic drugs currently being offered to patients , are currently being evaluated . Collectively , these efforts provide new momentum for the next phase of schizophrenia research and treatment .
Paclitaxel ( PTX ) is a commonly used chemotherapeutic agent for treating various solid tumors ; however , it often leads to a severe side effect known as paclitaxel-induced peripheral neuropathy ( PIPN ) , for which effective treatments are limited . Although mRNA therapies have shown promise in addressing central nervous system ( CNS ) disorders , the successful delivery of mRNA therapeutics to the nervous system is still hindered by many biological barriers . In this study , it is demonstrated that , compared with commercial MC3 lipid nanoparticles ( MC3 LNPs ) , mRNA-loaded P6CIT-derived lipopolymer nanoparticles ( P6CIT LPNPs ) , which are delivered via intrathecal injection , achieve effective penetration through the pia mater . More importantly , this P6CIT LPNP demonstrates the ability to achieve highly targeted mRNA transfection in gliocytes within the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia ( DRG ) , which is essential for the regulation of neuroinflammation . Furthermore , two intrathecal injections of P6CIT LPNPs encapsulating mIL-10 ( P6CIT/mIL-10 ) significantly alleviate PIPN by reducing proinflammatory cytokine production , gliocyte activation , and presynaptic NMDA receptor hyperactivity in both male and female mice . This study presents a promising and clinically translatable platform for using mRNA-loaded LPNPs to treat PIPN .
In the complex cellular microenvironment , lipid droplets ( LDs ) and the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) are essential for maintaining cellular homeostasis . Their interactions are crucial for regulating processes such as lipid metabolism . Nevertheless , simultaneously monitoring these two organelles remains a challenging task . In this study , a dual-organelle-targeted perylene diimides ( PDIs ) based probe , LD-ER-PDI , by incorporating a 2-azetidinone substituent in the bay-region and two distinct targeting groups for LDs and ER at opposite ends of the imide positions was development , enabling discrimination between LDs and ER . Moreover , it can effectively visualize the dynamic behaviors of LDs and ER under starvation and oleic acid-treated conditions and also allows real-time monitoring of LDs formation from the ER . This work not only provides a valuable tool for studying the dynamic interactions between LDs and ER but also highlights a strategy for designing dual-organelle-targeted fluorescent probes .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is primarily managed through diet and lifestyle modifications . However , these behavioural interventions alone may not achieve disease regression or remission , and maintaining long-term adherence is challenging . Incretin mimetics and other gastrointestinal hormones targeting the pleiotropic pathophysiological pathways underlying MASLD have now emerged as promising disease-modifying therapies . AIMS : This is a comprehensive review summarising the role of glucagon-like peptide-1 ( GLP-1 ) receptor agonists and glucagon/glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ( GIP ) /GLP-1 receptor dual or triple agonists in the treatment of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) . METHODS : Only clinical trials with endpoints assessed by liver histology were included for a robust evaluation of therapeutic efficacy . RESULTS : Recent evidence from phase 2 clinical trials for MASH demonstrated that pharmacological agents based on GLP-1 receptor agonism are effective in improving disease activity . Additionally , tirzepatide and survodutide showed potential clinical benefits in reducing fibrosis . Other cardiometabolic benefits observed include weight loss and improvements in glycaemic control and lipid profile . Adherence to treatment may be limited by gastrointestinal side effects , though they were found to be generally mild to moderate in severity . An interim analysis of the semaglutide phase 3 trial confirmed its efficacy in improving steatohepatitis and demonstrated its potential to improve fibrosis . CONCLUSIONS : GLP-1 receptor agonists , alone or in combination with GIP and/or glucagon receptor agonists , represent promising , effective pharmacotherapies for the treatment of MASLD/MASH . Larger and longer-duration clinical trials are needed to further evaluate the efficacy and safety of GIP receptor and glucagon receptor agonism .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Chronic hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) infection is associated with hypolipidemia . HCV eradication may , therefore , result in hyperlipidemia and increase cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk . We investigated the impact of HCV eradication on serum lipid and lipoprotein profiles and CVD risk during and following direct-acting antiviral ( DAA ) therapy . APPROACH AND RESULTS : We retrospectively analysed stored sera and plasma from 60 DAA-naive patients , genotypes 1-4 , treated with 12 weeks of sofosbuvir-velpatasvir . Serum lipids , apolipoproteins ( apo ) , and a systemic inflammatory marker , GlycA , were measured serially beginning early on treatment and off treatment . Additionally , NMR LipoProfile analysis was performed on plasma samples . Expression of genes regulating lipid metabolism was assessed from paired liver biopsies obtained before and on treatment . Linear mixed models were used to examine changes in lipid and inflammatory markers ; Framingham and ASCVD CVD risk scores were assessed before and after treatment . Decline in HCV viremia was associated with a rapid , significant increase in TChol , HDL-C , LDL-C , ApoA-1 and ApoB , and GlycA , improvement in ALT , hepatic inflammation , and steatosis but no change in glycemic control ( HOMA-IR and HbA1c ) . Increase in TChol , LDL-C , and ApoB was associated with an increased SREBP1expression . Both ASCVD and Framingham risk scores were significantly increased at week 24 post treatment after adjusting for age ( p < 0001 ) . CONCLUSION : Serum lipids and lipoproteins rapidly increase with inhibition of viral replication during DAA therapy , an effect that may be mediated by genes affecting hepatic de novo lipogenesis . Based on lipid changes , HCV eradication may increase CVD risk , but this needs to be investigated prospectively .
Aging is a primary driver of the escalating prevalence of heart failure ( HF ) . Age-associated gut microbiota dysbiosis has been implicated in various age-related diseases , yet its role in age-related HF remains largely unexplored . In this study , we sought to explore the potential link between age-related gut microbiota alterations and HF in the elderly . We analyzed a publicly available single-cell sequencing dataset , which revealed markedly increased ferroptosis activity in cardiac myocytes of elderly individuals compared to their younger counterparts . Notably , treatment with the ferroptosis inhibitor , ferrostatin-1 , mitigated cardiac ferroptosis and prevented cardiac dysfunction in aging rats . Furthermore , fecal microbiota transplantation from elderly HF patients significantly increased cardiac ferroptosis activity and induced cardiac dysfunction in healthy recipient rats . Integrated 16S rRNA sequencing and PCR quantification revealed a marked depletion of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii ( F . prausnitzii ) in elderly individuals , with a more pronounced decline in elderly patients with HF . Oral administration of F . prausnitzii or its metabolite butyrate effectively attenuated age-related HF through inhibiting ferroptosis . Additionally , gene-editing techniques were employed to generate F . prausnitzii BCoAT mutant deficient in butyrate production . Intriguingly , the protective effect was lost in the butyrate-deficient F . prausnitzii strain . Mechanistically , butyrate reduced intracellular iron accumulation and suppressed ferroptosis by downregulating LCN2 expression in senescent cardiomyocytes . Our findings highlight the critical role of aged microbiota-induced ferroptosis in HF and propose F . prausnitzii or butyrate may serve as potential targets for the prevention and treatment of age-related HF . FAU - Zhang , Yun
Peonies are globally renowned ornamental plants , and distant hybridization is a key method for breeding new varieties , though it often faces cross-incompatibility challenges . The metabolic mechanisms underlying the crossing barrier between tree peony ( Paeonia sect . Moutan ) and herbaceous peony ( P . lactiflora ) remain unclear . To identify key metabolites involved in cross-incompatibility , we performed a cross between P . ostii ' Fengdanbai ' ( female parent ) and P . lactiflora ' Red Sara ' ( male parent ) and analyzed metabolites in the stigma 12 h after pollination using UPLC-MS . We identified 1242 differential metabolites , with 433 up-regulated and 809 down-regulated , including sugars , nucleotides , amino acids , lipids , organic acids , benzenoids , flavonoids , and alkaloids . Most differential metabolites were down-regulated in hybrid stigmas , potentially affecting pollen germination and pollen tube growth . Cross-pollinated stigma exhibited lower levels of high-energy nutrients ( such as amino acids , nucleotides , and tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolites ) compared to self-pollinated stigma , which suggests that energy deficiency is a contributing factor to the crossing barrier . Additionally , cross-pollination significantly impacted KEGG pathways such as nucleotide metabolism , purine metabolism , and vitamin B6 metabolism , with most metabolites in these pathways being down-regulated . These findings provide new insights into the metabolic basis of cross-incompatibility between tree and herbaceous peonies , offering a foundation for overcoming hybridization barriers in peony breeding . FAU - Jia , Wenqing
Lipid vesicles , liposomes and phytosomes have been gaining significant attention in various applications for phytochemical preservation . Furthermore , yerba mate ( Ilex paraguariensis ) contains a high content of bioactive compounds with functional properties ; however , its liquid extract exhibits limited stability . For the first time , lipid vesicles containing yerba mate extract were produced and characterized . They were prepared using pure or purified phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) and n-hexane as a solvent via the reverse phase evaporation method . Their characterization was conducted using Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ( FTIR ) , UV-vis spectroscopy , Zeta potential ( PZ ) , and dynamic light scattering ( DLS ) . The decrease or absence of FTIR bands and UV-vis absorbance ( 325 nm ) from the yerba mate extract suggests the successful dispersion of yerba mate extract in the liposome membrane , ensuring its encapsulation or complexation . Additionally , the size of lipid vesicles decreased from 1 nm to 5 nm ( pure PC ) and from 0 nm to 6 nm ( purified PC ) after the addition of yerba mate extract PZ values showed a slight change in all vesicles enhancing colloidal stability . This , combined with the reduction observed in DLS , suggests membrane reorganization , leading to the formation of unilamellar liposomes . Our observations indicate the possible formation of phytosomes , although additional studies are necessary to confirm this mechanism . FAU - Micheletto , Yasmine Miguel Serafini
Atrial fibrillation ( AF ) is increasingly recognized not merely as an arrhythmia , but as a clinical manifestation of atrial cardiomyopathy ( AtCM ) -a progressive , multifaceted disease of the atrial myocardium involving structural , electrical , mechanical , and molecular remodeling . AtCM often precedes AF onset , sustains its perpetuation , and contributes to thromboembolic risk independently of rhythm status . Emerging evidence implicates diverse pathophysiological drivers of AtCM , including inflammation , epicardial adipose tissue , metabolic dysfunction , oxidative stress , ageing , and sex-specific remodeling . The NLRP3 inflammasome has emerged as a central effector in atrial inflammation and remodeling . Gut microbial dysbiosis , lipid dicarbonyl stress , and fibro-fatty infiltration are also increasingly recognized as contributors to arrhythmogenesis . AtCM is further linked to atrial functional valve regurgitation and adverse outcomes in AF . Therapeutically , substrate-directed strategies-ranging from metabolic modulation and immunomodulation to early rhythm control-offer promise for altering the disease trajectory . This review synthesizes mechanistic insights into AtCM and discusses emerging therapeutic paradigms that aim not merely to suppress arrhythmia but to modify the underlying substrate . Recognizing AF as a syndrome of atrial disease reframes management strategies and highlights the urgent need for precision medicine approaches targeting the atrial substrate . FAU - Karakasis , Paschalis
Background/Objectives : Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( DM2 ) is characterized by the development of micro/macro-vascular complications over time . Factors influencing their course may present specific features in the primary care context . This study aims to identify predictive factors for the evolution of micro/macro-vascular pathology in DM2 patients and evaluate interventions implemented by general practitioners ( GPs ) in this context . Methods : From the medical records of 1169 DM2 patients from 13 Italian GPs , demographic , socio-environmental , and clinical data were recorded , along with the presence and degree of arterial hypertension and components of diabetic micro/macroangiopathy at the time of study entry and 5 years prior . Laboratory parameters and therapies from the last three years were recorded . Results : Compared to 5 years prior , at the study entry , the number of patients presenting at least one micro- or macro-vascular complication increased from 192 ( 4% ) to 344 ( 4% ) and from 245 ( 0% ) to 350 ( 9% ) . At the logistic regression , microalbuminuria determination appeared to be the strongest predictor of vascular damage progression , followed by decreasing LDL cholesterol values induced by lipid-lowering therapy . Male gender , age >75 years , and smoking history were associated with greater vascular damage progression in the ANOVA repeated measures test . Conclusions : Advanced age , male gender , and smoking history proved strongly associated with the presence and extent of damage progression . GPs appear to adopt a more aggressive approach in treating risk factors ( particularly lipid profile ) for damage progression in these patients . Microalbuminuria has proven to be by far the marker most strongly associated with vascular damage progression . FAU - Fabris , Carlo
Background/Objectives : The aim of this study was to qualitatively and quantitatively assess the bacterial domain of the gut microbiome in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) , with a focus on sex differences , glycemic control , and lipid disorders . Methods : This study included 60 older adults with T2D ( 38 women and 22 men ) treated with metformin or a combination of metformin and insulin . The gut microbiota was profiled using 16S rRNA gene sequencing . Statistical analyses , including correlation analysis and multiple regression , were performed to identify the associations between microbial taxa , sex , and metabolic parameters . Results : No statistically significant differences in alpha or beta diversity were observed between the sexes . Multiple regression analysis indicated a positive relationship between Tenericutes and HbA1c in male participants ( beta = 22931 , CI [75 , 70] , R = 67 ; R = 36 ; unadjusted p = 0052 ; adjusted p = 0496 ) . In female participants , G0 ' ( beta = -24107 , CI [-19 , -30] , R = 78 ; R = 58 ; unadjusted p = 00003 ; adjusted p = 0005 ) and HbA1c ( beta = -86670 , CI [-61 , -12] , R = 78 ; R = 58 ; unadjusted p = 00001 ; adjusted p = 0003 ) correlated negatively with Verrucomicrobia as well G0 ' ( beta = -90427 , CI [-95 , -85] , R = 46 ; R = 17 ; unadjusted p = 0008 ; adjusted p = 007 ) and HbA1c ( beta = -69561 , CI [-52 , -87] , R = 46 ; R = 17 ; unadjusted p = 0002 ; adjusted p = 002 ) correlated negatively with OD1 bacteria , known as Parcubacteria . Conclusions : In this elderly population with type 2 diabetes , biological sex did not significantly affect the gut microbiota diversity . However , several exploratory associations between microbial taxa and metabolic parameters differed between men and women , suggesting that sex may influence specific aspects of microbiota-metabolism interactions . These preliminary findings underscore the importance of considering both age- and sex-related factors when investigating the gut microbiome in the context of type 2 diabetes . FAU - Pilot , Magdalena
Gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) leads to increased lifelong cardiometabolic risk in both mothers and their offspring . The identification of effective strategies to contain the future risk of type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) and cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) is of utmost importance to reduce the burden of the disease . Breastfeeding ( BF ) is effective in reducing short- and long-term child morbidity . In recent years , BF has emerged as a candidate low-cost intervention to prevent future cardiometabolic complications both in mothers and infants exposed to GDM . The aim of this review is to provide an overview of the evidence about the possible metabolic benefits of BF for both mothers with a history of GDM and their offspring . Increasing evidence supports the positive effects of exclusive BF over formula feeding ( FF ) or mixed feeding on glucose homeostasis and the lipid profile in women with previous GDM in the early postpartum period . Studies with a longer observation suggest clear benefits of intensive and longer BF on the risk of diabetes and prediabetes in mothers after adjustment for confounders . In regards to infants , in most studies , the intensity and duration of BF are positively associated with slower infant growth curves compared with FF , indicating that the positive effect of BF on growth trends might contrast the increased risk of obesity and metabolic diseases observed in infants exposed to GDM . Considering these findings , a global effort should be made to support BF practice to possibly reduce cardiometabolic morbidity after GDM . FAU - Filardi , Tiziana
Background : Hyperreflective retinal foci ( HRF ) are small , discrete , hyperreflective elements observed in the retina using optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) . They appear in many retinal diseases and have been linked to disease progression , treatment response , and prognosis . However , their definition and clinical use vary widely , not just between different diseases , but also within a single disorder . Methods : This perspective is based on a review of peer-reviewed studies examining HRF across different retinal diseases . The studies included analyzed HRF morphology , distribution , and clinical relevance using OCT . Particular attention was given to histopathological correlations , disease-specific patterns , and advancements in automated quantification methods . Results : HRF distribution and features vary with disease type and even within the same disease . A variety of descriptions have been proposed with different characteristics in terms of dimensions , reflectivity , location , and association with back shadowing . Automated OCT analysis has enhanced HRF detection , enabling quantitative analysis that may expand their use in clinical practice . However , differences in software and methods can lead to inconsistent results between studies . HRF have been linked to microglial cells and may be defined as neuro-inflammatory cells ( Inflammatory , I-HRF ) , migrating retinal pigment epithelium cells ( Pigmentary , P-HRF ) , blood vessels ( Vascular , V-HRF ) , and deposits of proteinaceous or lipid elements leaking from vessels ( Exudative , E-HRF ) . Conclusions : HRF are emerging as valuable imaging biomarkers in retinal diseases . Four main types have been identified , with different morphological features , pathophysiological origin , and , therefore , different implications in the management of retinal diseases . Advances in imaging and computational analysis are promising for their incorporation into personalized treatment strategies . FAU - Frizziero , Luisa
Background/Objectives : Arterial stiffness is a prevalent age-related condition that can significantly increase the risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality in older adults . Understanding the factors that contribute to vascular health , including metabolic dysfunction and hyperhomocysteinemia , alongside vitamin B status , is essential for developing effective interventions . This study aimed to explore the relationship between plasma levels of homocysteine , folate , and vitamin B12 , as well as various indices of metabolic dysfunction , in elderly individuals with arterial stiffness . Methods : We conducted a cross-sectional analysis involving 884 participants aged 65 and older , assessing arterial stiffness using the cardio/ankle vascular index method . Additionally , we collected fasting blood samples to evaluate plasma homocysteine , folate , vitamin B12 levels , and other relevant biochemical markers . Results : Higher plasma homocysteine levels are significantly correlated with elevated CAVI scores and increased indices of metabolic dysfunction ( p < 05 ) . Furthermore , a multivariate logistic regression analysis demonstrated that elevated plasma homocysteine levels , along with higher levels of lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) , triglyceride/glucose index ( TyG ) , and visceral adiposity index ( VAI ) , are associated with increased arterial stiffness . Conclusions : These findings suggest that monitoring and optimizing homocysteine , folate , and vitamin B12 levels may be beneficial for preventing or managing arterial stiffness and related metabolic disorders in the elderly population . FAU - Sirivarasai , Jintana
Background/Objectives : Patients with periodontitis have been found to have higher salivary concentrations of malondialdehyde , a biomarker of lipid hyperoxidation , compared to healthy subjects . However , the association between salivary malondialdehyde levels and periodontitis , independently of other risk factors , has not been analyzed . Therefore , the novel objective of our study was to explore this possible association by performing a logistic regression analysis . Material and Methods : This observational , prospective study was carried out in a private dental practice . Salivary malondialdehyde levels were measured in subjects with periodontitis ( characterized by periodontal tissue loss ) and in subjects without periodontitis ( either periodontally healthy or with localized gingivitis in <30% of sites ) . A multivariate regression analysis was carried out to determine the factors associated with periodontitis . Variables with a p-value </= 05 in the comparison between subjects with and without periodontitis were included in the regression analysis . Results : A total of 119 subjects were included , 63 with periodontitis and 56 without ( 35 periodontally healthy subjects and 21 patients with localized gingivitis ) . In the multiple binomial regression analysis , salivary malondialdehyde levels > 77 nmol/mL were identified as a predictor of periodontitis ( p = 03 ) , after controlling for age ( p < 001 ) , diabetes mellitus ( p = 81 ) , arterial hypertension ( p = 43 ) , smoking status ( never smoked p = 08 ) , and cardiovascular disease ( p = 88 ) . Conclusions : To our knowledge , this is the first study to report that salivary malondialdehyde levels are associated with periodontitis , independently of other known risk factors . FAU - Lorente , Leonardo
Background : The " fast track " addition ( within 48 h ) of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitors ( PCSK9i ) to the optimized oral lipid-lowering therapy ( LLT ) during hospitalization for acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) has been shown to rapidly achieve the low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) therapeutic targets . However , so far , its efficacy in real-world settings remains understudied . Methods : We retrospectively analyzed 128 ACS patients treated at our center , comparing " PCSK9i fast track " use within 48 h to standard " stepwise " LLT . Lipid levels and incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACEs ) were evaluated at 30 and 180 days . Results : The " PCSK9i fast track " group achieved significantly lower LDL-C levels at 30 days ( 5 +/- 5 vs . 6 +/- 9 mg/dL , p < 001 ) and 180 days ( 6 +/- 0 vs . 0 +/- 4 mg/dL , p < 001 ) . Recommended LDL-C targets ( <55 mg/dL ) were met by 3% of the " PCSK9i fast track " group at 180 days , compared with 9% of controls ( p < 001 ) . No significant differences in MACEs were observed between groups . No adverse effects from PCSK9i use were noted . Conclusions : The " PCSK9i fast track " strategy was safe and effective in achieving LDL-C targets more rapidly than conventional approaches in real-world ACS patients . FAU - D ' Andrea , Davide
Background/Objectives : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is increasingly recognized in inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) patients due to chronic inflammation and metabolic disturbances . However , reliable non-invasive biomarkers for MASLD prediction in this population are lacking . This study evaluated the predictive value of metabolic scores and lipid ratios for MASLD onset in IBD patients . Methods : An observational retrospective study was conducted on 358 IBD patients at the " Renato Dulbecco " Teaching Hospital in Catanzaro , Italy , in a period between 1 January 2021 and 31 December Clinical and laboratory data , including metabolic scores and lipid ratios , were analyzed using the chi-square and Kruskal-Wallis tests as appropriate . Post hoc comparisons were conducted using Dunn ' s test . Receiver operating characteristic analysis assessed their predictive accuracy for MASLD . p < 05 was considered significant . Results : IBD-MASLD patients had a significantly higher body mass index ( BMI , 27 +/- 4 vs . 22 +/- 2 kg/m ; p < 001 ) , waist circumference ( 100 +/- 11 vs . 85 +/- 4 cm ; p < 001 ) , other anthropometric parameters , metabolic scores , and lipid ratios than IBD-only patients . The metabolic score for insulin resistance [METS-IR , area under curve ( AUC = 754 ) ] and waist circumference ( AUC = 754 ) exhibited the highest predictive accuracy , followed by the lipid accumulation product ( LAP , AUC = 737 ) , BMI ( AUC = 709 ) , and triglyceride/high-density lipoprotein ( TG/HDL , AUC = 701 ) . Insulin resistance scores , including the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance ( AUC = 680 ) and triglyceride-glucose index ( AUC = 674 ) , were of moderate predictive use . The visceral adiposity index ( AUC = 664 ) and low-density lipoprotein/high-density lipoprotein ( AUC = 656 ) showed lower discriminative ability , while the fibrosis-4 index ( AUC = 562 ) had the weakest diagnostic performance . Conclusions : Our findings suggest that MASLD in IBD is primarily driven by cardiometabolic dysfunction . The introduction of the METS-IR , LAP , and TG/HDL into clinical assessments of IBD patients could prove useful in preventing liver and cardiovascular complications in this setting . FAU - Abenavoli , Ludovico
Background : The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index has emerged as a novel surrogate marker of insulin resistance , but its changes after hepatitis C virus ( HCV ) eradication remain unclear . This study aimed to evaluate changes in the TyG index following direct-acting antiviral ( DAA ) treatment . Methods : HCV-infected patients achieving sustained virological response 12 weeks post-treatment ( SVR12 ) were prospectively enrolled from May 2015 to June Exclusion criteria included the following : failure to achieve SVR12 ; use of anti-diabetes or anti-hyperlipidemia medications ; and hepatitis B virus or human immunodeficiency virus co-infection . Changes in lipid profiles , TyG index , and homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance ( HOMA-IR ) were evaluated from baseline to SVR Insulin resistance was defined as HOMA-IR >/= The optimal TyG index cut-off for predicting insulin resistance was determined using the Youden Index . Results : A total of 111 patients ( median age : 0 years ; 9% male ) were included . The TyG index correlated positively with HOMA-IR ( Pearson ' s r = 32 , p < 001 ) . Among patients with pre-existing insulin resistance , significant improvements were observed at SVR12 in both HOMA-IR ( 0 [IQR : 1-4] vs . 5 [IQR : 0-9] ; p < 001 ) and TyG index ( 47 [IQR : 08-68] vs . 36 [IQR : 00-71] ; p = 028 ) . Using 27 as the optimal TyG index cut-off , similar improvements were noted in HOMA-IR ( 8 [IQR : 0-3] vs . 3 [IQR : 5-8] ; p = 031 ) and TyG index ( 62 [IQR : 46-83] vs . 52 [IQR : 27-89] ; p = 003 ) . Conclusions : The TyG index is a valuable tool for monitoring changes in insulin resistance after HCV eradication , particularly in patients with baseline insulin resistance . FAU - Shen , Shih-Hsiung
Objectives : This systematic review with meta-analysis compared cardiometabolic syndrome ( CMS ) in adults with chronic ( >/=1 year ) spinal cord injury ( SCI ) to non-SCI individuals ( controls ) and athletes , analyzing the effect of specific injury characteristics and exploring temporal and geographical trends . Methods : Ovid Medline , Embase , Cochrane , CINAHL , Scopus , and Web of Science were searched from inception to September Adults with chronic SCI were included based on observational and baseline data derived from experimental studies . Quality Assessment Criteria for Evaluating Primary Research Papers from a Variety of Fields assessed quality . Weighted means with 95% bootstrapped confidence intervals ( CI ) were computed for risk stratification . Group differences were assessed using random effects meta-analysis , calculating weighted mean differences with 95% bootstrapped CI . Temporal and geographical trends were evaluated with linear regression based on sample-size-weighted distributions and relevant covariates . Results : Of 31 , 163 identified records , 471 studies were included ( n </= 31 , 782 SCI participants ) . CMS was present in men with SCI , paraplegia , tetraplegia , and injuries above T6 ; men with complete SCI ( AIS A ) ; and men and women with motor-complete SCI ( AIS A-B ) . Compared to controls , adults with SCI had a lower body mass index ( BMI ) , higher total and visceral fat , and worse lipid and carbohydrate profiles , including increased insulin resistance ( IR ) . Tetraplegia was associated with greater visceral fat , poorer glycemic control , and lower BMI , insulin sensitivity , high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , and triglycerides than paraplegia . Motor-complete SCI had lower BMI , HDL-C , and fasting glucose than motor-incomplete injuries . Injuries above T6 had lower blood pressure and higher fasting insulin levels than those below T Athletes with SCI had a lower BMI , fat mass , and fasting glucose , and higher systolic blood pressure than non-athletes with SCI , but frequently presented with obesity and carbohydrate dysfunction . Temporal analysis revealed increasing obesity trends and improved systolic blood pressure , while other CMS risk factors remained unchanged . We also identified global variations in obesity , lipids , blood pressure , and carbohydrate patterns . Conclusions : With a large sample , we revealed a widespread cardiometabolic burden in chronic SCI , even among athletes . Specifically , obesity , IR , and hypoalphalipoproteinemia worsened with increasing injury severity , alongside rising obesity trends and geographic disparities in risk profiles . These patterns highlight the evolution of what was deemed an epidemic into a global cardiometabolic pandemic . FAU - Farkas , Gary J
The increasing resistance of microorganisms to currently used antimicrobials requires the urgent development of new effective treatments . Plant-based natural products can be an alternative solution . The aerial plant parts of the cranberry ( Vaccinium macrocarpon ) present a potential new source of antimicrobial secondary metabolites . Volatile essential oils were extracted from Stevens , Early Black , and Mullica Queen variety plants by steam distillation ( SD ) and the Clevenger method ( CM ) , and their profiles were characterized by GC-MS . The extracts and two identified constituents , cinnamaldehyde and terpineol , were screened by the disc diffusion assay against Gram-positive B . cereus ATCC 11778 and S . aureus ATCC 25923 and Gram-negative bacteria E . coli ATCC 25922 , P . aeruginosa ATCC 27853 , and C . albicans ATCC Radical scavenging antioxidant activity was also determined using the DPPH assay . The CM extracts were rich in fatty acids , sesquiterpenes , and diterpenes , whereas the SD extracts contained more aldehydes , monoterpenes , and phenylpropanoids . All volatile extracts showed promising antioxidant activity ; leaf extract activity was significantly higher than the vine ( p < 05 ) . The CM leaf and vine extracts exhibited antimicrobial activity against B . cereus , S . aureus , E . coli , and C . albicans compared to the SD , and the leaf extracts were more effective than the vine extracts . Individual constituents of leaf and vine extracts , cinnamaldehyde and alpha-terpineol , also showed antimicrobial activity against these organisms . The active constituents of the CM extracts are yet to be identified . A multivariate analysis revealed a particular pattern of inhibition of the tested organisms . Based on our results , cranberry volatile extracts have potential for future valorization as antibacterials , antifungals , and antioxidants . FAU - Aborah , Martin
Crown ethers have gained importance in the field of medicine because of their resemblance to natural ionophores like valinomycin . With the goal of developing new pharmacologically important crown ethers , a novel series of crown ethers linked with Fusidic acid butyl ester 10a-d were synthesized and characterized by means of their H NMR , C NMR DEPT-135 , FT-IR , and mass spectrometry . In vitro antioxidant and alpha-glucosidase inhibition activities of all crown ethers along with the precursor Fusidic acid butyl ester were examined and compared to the standard butylated hydroxyanisole and acarbose , respectively . Compounds ( FABE-16-crown-4 ) 10b and ( FABE-19-crown-5 ) 10c showed high antioxidant potential with the IC = 5 +/- 2 muM and 1 +/- 3 muM , respectively , when compared to the standard BHA ( IC = 2 +/- 34 muM ) . To understand the binding mode of the compounds , molecular docking investigations were performed using human antioxidant protein , peroxiredoxin Molecular docking studies revealed higher docking scores ( -5 and -7 kcal/mol ) for the highly active compounds 10c and 10b , respectively , than standard BHA ( -3 kcal/mol ) . Synthesized crown ethers exhibited moderate alpha-glucosidase inhibition with ( IC = 5 +/- 2 to 5 +/- 1 muM ) when compared to acarbose as standard ( IC = 2 +/- 8 muM ) . The in silico ADMET predictions indicated that the prepared compounds obeyed ( bRO5 ) and Veber ' s rule for the acceptance as orally administered drugs and indicated that all the prepared crown ethers exhibited calculated values of drug likeness parameters in acceptable ranges that showed good potential of these molecules for further drug development investigations . FAU - Sultan , Hira
Cyanidin-3-O-glucoside ( C3G ) was used as a substrate for enzymatic acylation , and different compounds ( methyl n-octanoate and methyl salicylate ) were selected as acyl donors . Structural analysis ( UV-Vis , FTIR , and HPLC ) revealed the successful integration of methyl ester compounds into the structural units of C3G . The thermostability and photostability of acylated C3Gs , particularly those with methyl salicylate as the acyl donor , exhibited significant improvements . The molecular geometries of the different anthocyanins were optimized using computational chemistry , and energy level calculations were performed by using Density Functional Theory ( DFT ) to identify the antioxidant active site . Then , the antioxidant properties of C3G and acylated C3Gs ( O-C3G and S-C3G ) were studied in both aqueous and lipid systems . In aqueous systems , acylated C3Gs exhibited higher antioxidant properties than C3G in DPPH radical scavenging and hydroxyl radical scavenging assays , with cyanidin-3-O-glucoside salicyl acyl product ( S-C3G ) demonstrating the highest activity . However , the antioxidant properties varied in lipid systems . In lipid systems , acylated C3Gs displayed better antioxidant properties than C3G in POV and TBARS assays , with cyanidin-3-O-glucoside n-octanoate acid acyl product ( O-C3G ) showing better antioxidant properties compared to that in aqueous systems . FAU - Ye , Ziwei
This study focuses on the encapsulation of nervonic acid-enriched structured phospholipid ( NA-enriched SPL ) by analysing its physical and chemical properties . Wall materials for encapsulation were initially screened , with whey protein isolate and maltodextrin exhibiting the most favourable characteristics . Optimisation of encapsulation parameters determined that a core-to-wall ratio of 1 : 3 provided the highest physical stability . Encapsulated samples underwent in vitro digestion , where MC-FD exhibited the highest digestibility ( 54% ) , followed by CV-E ( 1% ) and NA-enriched SPL ( 82% ) . Storage stability was assessed over 90 days at 4 degrees C , 25 degrees C , and 45 degrees C by monitoring particle size , zeta potential , polydispersity index , microscopy , fatty acid composition , and primary and secondary lipid oxidation . MC-FD demonstrated superior stability , maintaining its physical and chemical properties , particularly at 4 degrees C . In contrast , CV-E showed the lowest physical stability , with significant changes in appearance and increased particle size at elevated temperatures ( 25 degrees C and 45 degrees C ) . FAU - Ang , Xun
Type 2 diabetes mellites ( T2DM ) is the most common form of diabetes and affects a significant portion of the population . Obesity-related increases in free fatty acids and glucose in the diet contribute to beta-cell dysfunction and loss , ultimately leading to the onset of T2DM . The endocannabinoid system , which is present throughout the body , plays a vital role in regulating various physiological processes , including those in the pancreas . This system has been implicated in metabolic disorders like obesity and diabetes , as it helps to regulate appetite , food intake , and fat production . Phytocannabinoids from Cannabis sativa have the potential to influence the endocannabinoid system , offering a promising therapeutic approach for diabetes and its complications . Using high-glucose-high-lipid ( HGHL ) -induced INS-1 beta-cells , we investigated the protective effects of two major ( THC and CBD ) and three minor ( THCV , CBC , and CBG ) phytocannabinoids on high glucose-high lipid ( HGHL ) -induced apoptosis , cell cycle disruption , and impaired function of beta-cells . Our results showed that all five phytocannabinoids reduced HGHL-induced apoptosis , likely by decreasing TXNIP protein levels . Additionally , THC and all three minor phytocannabinoids provided protective effects against functional impairments caused by HGHL exposure . FAU - Gojani , Esmaeel Ghasemi
Fusidic acid ( FA ) , a tetracyclic triterpenoid , has been approved to treat methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus ( MRSA ) infections . However , there are few reports about FA derivatives with high efficacy superior to FA , manifesting the difficulty of discovering the derivatives based on experience-based drug design . In this study , we employed a stepwise method to discover novel FA derivatives . First , molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations were performed to identify the molecular mechanism of FA against elongation factor G ( EF-G ) and drug resistance . Then , we utilized a scaffold decorator to design novel FA derivatives at the 3- and 21-positions of FA . The ligand-based and structure-based screening models , including Chemprop and RTMScore , were employed to identify promising hits from the generated set . Ten generated FA derivatives with high efficacy in the Chemprop and RTMScore models were synthesized for in vitro testing . Compounds 4 and 10 demonstrated a 2-fold increase in potency against MRSA strains compared to FA . This study highlights the significant impact of AI-based methods on the design of novel FA derivatives with drug efficacy , which provides a new approach for drug discovery . FAU - Wang , Luqi
Currently , the main types of roses circulating in China include Jinbian Rose , Kushui Rose and Pingyin Rose . Each type of rose has slight differences in usage and efficacy . There are many varieties of roses , and the quality of rose essential oils varies greatly . Almost no research has systematically studied the essential oils of various roses . In this experiment , three types of roses ( Jinbian Rose , Kushui Rose , and Pingyin Rose ) were selected as research subjects based on their efficacy and variety in the market . Essential oils were extracted from the three types of roses using hydrodistillation . Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) was used to qualitatively analyze the volatile substances in the essential oils of different varieties of roses . The three types of rose essential oils were identified and differentiated using chemometric methods ( including HCA , PCA , PLS-DA , and OPLS-DA ) . On the one hand , based on the GC-MS analysis results , 40 , 48 , and 40 volatile components were detected in Jinbian Rose , Kushui Rose , and Pingyin Rose , respectively . The chemical compositions were primarily dominated by macromolecular compounds such as long-chain alkanes , organic acids , and esters . On the other hand , eight markers with significant identification values were identified to distinguish among the three types of roses . In conclusion , based on GC-MS analysis and chemometric methods , this experiment distinguishes and identifies three types of roses from the perspective of essential oil components for developing an effective strategy for the identification of rose varieties . FAU - Xu , Min
alpha-Lipoic acid ( ALA ) is a naturally occurring compound with diverse biological functions , widely distributed in animal and plant tissues . It has attracted considerable attention due to its versatile therapeutic potential . However , despite these promising prospects , the clinical application of ALA remains limited by its low bioavailability and chemical instability and an incomplete understanding of its multifaceted mechanisms across various diseases . This review provides a comprehensive overview of the biochemical properties of ALA , including its direct free-radical-scavenging activity , regeneration of endogenous antioxidants , chelation of metal ions , and modulation of inflammatory responses . We also highlight the current evidence regarding ALA ' s therapeutic roles and efficacy in major diseases , such as neurodegenerative disorders , lung diseases , cardiovascular diseases , and diabetes . Furthermore , recent advancements and innovative strategies in ALA-based derivatives and drug-delivery systems are summarized , emphasizing their potential to address complex diseases and the necessity for further translational studies . This review aims to provide a theoretical foundation for the rational design of ALA-based therapies , thereby supporting future clinical applications and the optimization of therapeutic strategies . FAU - Wang , Yonglian
The application of micronization to previously freeze-dried red potatoes significantly increased their polyphenol content and antioxidant potential . As a result , they became a valuable additive for enriching gluten-free snacks with bioactive compounds . The aim of this study was to assess the health-promoting potential as well as the content of polyphenols , phytosterols , and vitamin E in gluten-free extrudates , also referred to as gluten-free snacks , with the addition of 10% to 40% freeze-dried and micronized red potatoes . Additionally , the study examined color parameters and nutritional composition , including dietary fiber content . It was found that the extrudates obtained from micronized and freeze-dried red potatoes were characterized by high nutritional value but , most importantly , a strong health-promoting potential due to their exceptionally high content of phenolic acids and anthocyanins , which contributed to their remarkable antioxidant activity . Snacks enriched with freeze-dried and micronized red potatoes contain significantly higher levels of protein ( 3- to 14-fold increase ) , ash ( 5- to 5-fold increase ) , and soluble dietary fiber fraction ( 10- to 26-fold increase ) compared to the control sample . Moreover , these snacks exhibited very high concentrations of chlorogenic , cryptochlorogenic , and neochlorogenic acids , as well as elevated levels of pelargonidin and peonidin glycosides-polyphenolic compounds that were not detected in the control sample . These snacks contained substantial amounts of tocopherols and phytosterols , such as stigmasterol and beta-sitosterol ( 3- to 10-fold increase compared to the control ) . The study conclusively demonstrated that the 40% addition of freeze-dried and micronized red potatoes to gluten-free extrudates ensures the development of an innovative product with excellent health benefits and strong antioxidant activity . FAU - Gumul , Dorota
The interest in Cannabis sativa L . has been on the rise recently , driven by its potential applications in various sectors , including the food industry , the medical sector , and other key areas . This crop possesses a diverse profile of essential fatty acids and a range of bioactive compounds , which exhibit properties that are highly significant for functional food ingredients and nutraceutical purposes . The objective of this study was to investigate the characteristic lipid and bioactive profiles of different plant parts ( e . g . , inflorescences and leaves ) to ascertain their possible uses in nutritional and therapeutic fields . The fat content of the plant material was determined by the Soxhlet method , and gas chromatography was employed for the assessment of the fatty acids and selected bioactive compounds profile . In addition , some lipid quality indices were calculated with the purpose of providing a more in-depth discussion of these aspects beyond the traditional n-6/n-3 ratio . A distinct lipid composition was evident among the various plant parts . Compared to inflorescence samples , leaves typically contain higher proportions of SFAs , MUFAs , PUFAs , and n-3 fatty acids , along with a more favorable n-6/n-3 ratio , which may significantly impact nutritional value . Phytol-rich leaves can suggest its potential application as a functional feed or even a nutraceutical . Furthermore , the occurrence of hexacosane and related antimicrobial and antifungal compounds serves to enhance the practical utility of the leaves . Notably , hemp leaves are not merely a by-product , but rather offer significant practical applications . FAU - Jacunska , Weronika
The sustainable production of healthy structured lipids ( SLs ) using oils extracted from agro-industry by-products or non-conventional lipid sources is of utmost importance in the framework of a circular bioeconomy , toward a zero-waste goal . In this study , low-calorie triacylglycerols ( TAGs ) containing a long-chain ( L ) fatty acid ( FA ) at position sn-2 and medium-chain ( M ) FAs at positions sn-1 , 3 ( MLM type SL ) were obtained from virgin cold-pressed milk thistle ( 55% linoleic acid ; C18 : 2 ) , grapeseed ( 62% C18 : 2 ) , and apricot kernel ( 61% oleic acid ; C18 : 1 ) oils . Lipase-catalyzed acidolysis with capric acid ( C10 : 0 ) or interesterification with ethyl caprate ( C10 Ethyl ) in solvent-free media were performed . In batch reactions , immobilized Rhizomucor miehei lipase ( Lipozyme RM ) was used as a biocatalyst . For all tested oils , new TAG ( SL ) yields , varying from 61 to 63% , were obtained after 6 h of interesterification . Maximum new TAG yields were reached after 6 , 24 , and 30 h of acidolysis with grapeseed ( 7% ) , milk thistle ( 1% ) , or apricot kernel ( 7% ) oils , respectively . Continuous acidolysis and interesterification of grapeseed oil were implemented in a packed-bed bioreactor , catalyzed by immobilized Thermomyces lanuginosus lipase ( Lipozyme TL IM ) . Throughout 150 h of continuous operation , no lipase deactivation was observed , with average SL yields of 2% +/- 1 by interesterification and 5% +/- 91 by acidolysis . FAU - Akbas , Suheda
Oregano oil was successfully encapsulated into chitosan-albumin nanogel via emulsification and electrostatic gelation . The system was characterized with a mean diameter around 26 nm , narrow size distribution ( PDI = 242 ) and approximately 40% encapsulation efficiency . The incorporation of the oil into the nanogel was confirmed by XRD and FTIR analyses , and the dissolution of the oil was enhanced after the encapsulation . Furthermore , the treatment of Betacoronavirus 1 infected bovine kidney MDBK cells with the oregano oil-loaded nanogel ( 25 microg/mL ) showed more than 50% protection against the infection , as compared to the non-treated virus infected control . The cytopathic effect ( CPE ) of the virus was inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner . The system inhibited the virus replication , resulting in a decrease of the viral particles by more than half , as shown by the cytotoxicity and CPE assays . The virus titer in treated and non-treated samples was determined by digital droplet PCR and revealed Delta3 log diminishment of the virus particles in samples treated with 25 microg/mL encapsulated oregano oil . This study is a basis for further investigations on the pharmacodynamics of the nanogel and its possible combinations with clinically applied chemotherapeutics . FAU - Radeva , Lyubomira
The rising demand for alternative solutions to diabetes mellitus has prompted significant interest in the exploration of plant-derived anti-diabetic compounds , especially within a circular economy framework that seeks sustainable and profitable reuse options . In this context , red ( RSGO ) and white ( WGSO ) grape seed oils , by-products of Sicilian vineyards , were prepared , analyzed for their fatty acid , polyphenol , carotenoid , and chlorophyll content , and evaluated for their glucose-lowering ability on HepG2 cells . Utilizing cytochemical techniques , flow cytometry , and protein blotting , we explored the effects of non-toxic oil dilutions on ( i ) glycogen storage , ( ii ) glucose consumption/uptake , ( iii ) GLUT-2 , GLUT-4 , and hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha ( HNF1alpha ) expression levels , and ( iv ) AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) , insulin receptor substrate-1 ( IRS-1 ) , AKT , and PKCzeta phosphorylation states , which are involved in insulin-mediated and -independent regulation of GLUT-4 membrane exposure . RGSO and WGSO , despite adopting slightly varying molecular strategies , were both proven to be effective stimulators of glucose absorption and glycogenesis . Specifically , RSGO promoted GLUT-2 and GLUT-4 up-regulation , whereas the WGSO-induced effect was associated with an increase in GLUT-4 levels alone . Moreover , the oils activated both pathways responsible for GLUT-4 translocation . Therefore , these wine-making residues have substantial potential as anti-diabetic solutions , holding promise for integration into the biomedical and food sectors . FAU - Ganci , Daniela
The solutions of essential oil ( 5% , 8% , and 0% w/v ) derived from Achillea millefoilum ( EOAM ) were evaluated for their repellent and insecticidal activity toward Acrobasis advenella , as well as their effects on the activity of selected larval tissue enzymes . The chemical composition of the EOAM analyzed by GC-MS showed that the main compounds included beta-pinene , chamazulene , eucalyptol , and beta-caryophyllene . Selection tests showed that larvae avoided inflorescences treated with 8% and 0% EOAM concentrations . The mortality of larvae increased with concentration and time of exposure to the EO , and the highest mortality rate was observed after 72 h . In addition , the impact of EO was examined on the activity of catalase ( CAT ) , polyphenol oxidase ( PPO ) , peroxidase ( POX ) , alpha- and beta-glucosidases , and acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) , i . e . , important antioxidants , detoxification , digestive , and nervous system enzymes . A significant increase in CAT activity was found in larvae treated with 8% and 0% EOAM after both 24 and 48 h . Initially , treating larvae with 5% EO decreased beta-glucosidase activity while increasing alpha-glucosidase activity . Moreover , 8% EOAM inhibited the activity of POX . These findings suggest that EOAM can affect important biochemical processes within the tissues of A . advenella larvae , making it a promising agent for the protection of black chokeberry crops . FAU - Gorska-Drabik , Edyta
Polygonati Rhizoma , widely used as a traditional functional food and herbal medicine , is well known for its health-promoting activities after the process of " nine cycles of steaming-drying " . Based on UPLC-MS/MS , 1369 secondary metabolites were identified in P . cyrtonema rhizomes , mainly alkaloids , amino acids and derivatives , flavonoids , organic acids , phenolic acids , and saccharides . The P . cyrtonema rhizomes were rich in xylose , arabinose , glucose , sorbose , mannose , galactose , rhamnose , inositol , fucose , sedoheptulose , phosphorylated monosaccharides , sugar acid , and sugar alcohols . Particularly , 23 types of modifications were detected for amino acids , while the most frequent modifications were acetylation , methylation ( nono- , di- , and tri- ) , cyclo- , homo- , and hydroxylation . Based on the metabolic profile , samples from the third cycle ( Tre-3 ) and the sixth cycle ( Tre-6 ) were firstly clustered together due to similar metabolites and then grouped with samples from the ninth cycle ( Tre-9 ) . Differentially accumulated metabolites were mainly enriched in " Metabolic pathways " , " Biosynthesis of cofactors " , " Biosynthesis of secondary metabolites " , " Flavonoid biosynthesis " , " Purine metabolism " , " ABC transporters " , " Biosynthesis of amino acids " , and " Nucleotide metabolism " pathways . During repeated steaming-drying processes , 39 metabolites occurred , including alkaloids , amino acids and derivatives , flavonoids , lignans and coumarins , lipids , nucleotides and derivatives , organic acids , phenolic acids , and terpenoids . This research will provide a critical scientific basis for postharvest processing of P . cyrtonema rhizomes . FAU - Wang , Shuzhen
Here , we examined the antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities of the ethyl acetate ( EtOAc ) fraction of Astilboides tabularis ( Hemsl . ) Engl . root extracts , initially prepared from a 70% ethanol extraction . This EtOAc fraction exhibited significant scavenging activity against DPPH radicals ( IC : 38 +/- 48 microg/mL ) and ABTS radicals ( IC : 46 +/- 58 microg/mL ) , and had a high total phenolic content ( i . e . , 02 +/- 56 mg GAE/g ) . In addition , the EtOAc fraction demonstrated concentration-dependent protective effects in a RAW7 macrophage cell model subjected to oxidative stress . In lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -stimulated RAW7 cells , nitric oxide ( NO ) production and the expression of inflammatory mediators ( iNOS , COX-2 , TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , IFN-beta ) were inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner . Western blot and real-time PCR ( RT-PCR ) analyses revealed that the EtOAc fraction also suppressed inflammatory mediator expression via inhibiting the activation of the NF-kappaB and MAPK signaling pathways . Finally , LC-QTOF-MS and LC-MS/MS analyses identified gallic acid and bergenin as compounds contributing to observed antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects . In conclusion , the EtOAc fraction of A . tabularis root extracts exhibited strong anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory properties , suggesting potential usage for treating various inflammatory diseases . FAU - Yoo , Nam Ho
Lecithinized superoxide dismutase ( PC-SOD ) was found to have a significantly improved half-life in the bloodstream and better pharmacological effects compared with unmodified SOD . However , there is no direct evidence that parenterally administered PC-SOD decreases superoxide levels in blood and tissues in vivo . In the present study , we investigated the ability of PC-SOD versus unmodified SOD as a superoxide scavenger in mice subjected to oxidative stress . Experiments were performed on a lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) mouse model of acute inflammation known to be accompanied by the overproduction of superoxide in the blood . The mice were divided into four groups : untreated ( healthy ; n = 6 ) , LPS-treated ( n = 7 ) , LPS/SOD-treated ( n = 6 ) , and LPS/PC-SOD-treated ( n = 7 ) mice . SOD and PC-SOD were injected intravenously . Blood samples were collected at four time intervals and analyzed by electron paramagnetic resonance ( EPR ) spectroscopy using a nitroxide probe , 3-carbamoyl-2 , 2 , 5 , 5-tetramethylpyrrolidine-1-oxyl ( CMP ) . The following effects were observed : ( i ) In the blood of healthy mice , the EPR signal was significantly lower compared with the control ( p < 001 ) and LPS-treated mice ( p < 01 ) ; ( ii ) in the blood of LPS-treated mice , the EPR signal was identical to that of the control ; and ( iii ) in the blood of LPS/SOD-treated mice collected immediately after enzyme injection , the EPR signal was significantly lower compared with the control ( p < 01 ) and LPS-treated mice ( p < 05 ) . However , the effect disappeared in the samples collected 30 min and 1 h after enzyme injection . ( iv ) In LPS/PC-SOD-treated mice , the EPR signal was significantly lower compared with the control ( p < 01 ) and LPS-treated mice ( p < 05 ) , even in the blood samples collected within 1 h after enzyme injection . The data indicate that the blood of healthy mice was characterized by a high reducing capacity , while the blood of LPS-treated mice was characterized by a high oxidative capacity . SOD decreased superoxide production immediately after enzyme injection . However , the effect was short-lived and disappeared within 30 min . PC-SOD effectively decreased superoxide production in the bloodstream of LPS-treated mice and restored the redox balance to the control level even two hours after enzyme injection . The effects of PC-SOD were more pronounced and long-lasting compared with those of SOD . The possible reason is the longer half-life of PC-SOD in the bloodstream , its better stability , and its slower clearance from the circulation due to the increased hydrophobicity of the enzyme and its interaction with plasma proteins . The data are discussed in the context of recent clinical trials showing that PC-SOD is a promising pharmaceutical product for adjuvant therapy of a variety of pathologies accompanied by inflammation , redox imbalance , and oxidative stress . FAU - Lazarova , Dessislava
Antidepressants are emerging contaminants that have raised global concern due to their abuse . Venlafaxine ( VFX ) , a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor , can cause adverse and potentially toxic effects on aquatic organisms . Electrochemical advanced oxidation processes ( EAOPs ) are gaining attention as promising degradation techniques for a variety of drugs . EAOP methods proposed for VFX degradation mainly utilize boron-doped diamond ( BDD ) electrodes , characterized by low background current and high oxygen overpotential . However , challenges arise , including delamination from the substrate , difficulties in scaling up , and limited service life . In this study , platinum was employed as an anode for the galvanostatic degradation of VFX , due to its stability and well-established surface cleaning procedure , which ensured high reproducibility . A 1 M NaSO solution at pH 9 was used as the supporting electrolyte , and a current density of 25 mA/cm was applied . After 7 h , a degradation efficiency of 94% was achieved for a 25 ppm VFX solution . The hydroxyl and sulfate radicals generated in the electrochemical system were the active species responsible for VFX degradation , which followed a first-order kinetic model with a rate constant of 0084 min ( -1 ) . The main degradation intermediates were identified through LC-MS , including two isomers with a nominal m/z of 276 and three isomers with a nominal m/z of The toxicity of the VFX degradation products was assessed by an in silico prediction model . This evaluation confirmed the sustainability of the developed method . FAU - Zizzamia , Angelica R
Stigmasterol is a plant-derived phytosterol that has attracted considerable attention because of its diverse biological activities and potential therapeutic applications . In this review , the chemical properties , biosynthesis , and biological effects of stigmasterol are exhaustively summarized . Furthermore , the anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , anticancer , neuroprotective , and hypolipidemic activities of stigmasterol have been discussed . Findings from various in vitro and in vivo studies have revealed its potential in treating various diseases , including cancer , diabetes , neurological disorders , and inflammatory conditions . The mechanisms underlying these effects are also discussed , particularly emphasizing the regulation of key signaling pathways and molecular targets , to further clarify the therapeutic role of stigmasterol . This review would provide a reference for further exploring the utility of stigmasterol as a therapeutic agent , thereby contributing to the improvement of human health . FAU - Li , Juan
Bacterial diseases are a global problem that threatens human health and cause many deaths each year . The alarming rise in bacterial resistance to modern antimicrobials is particularly concerning . In practice , this necessitates increasing the dosage of antimicrobial agents , posing a potential risk of adverse effects on human health . Additionally , the development of antibiotic resistance is one of the main factors contributing to the ever-growing costs of the global healthcare system . For these reasons , natural and safe antimicrobial agents are increasingly sought after . In this study , the antibacterial activity of 31 different essential oils ( EOs ) was investigated against Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus . The most effective EOs were further tested both individually and in dual combinations . Minimum inhibitory concentrations ( MICs ) and fractional inhibitory concentrations ( FICs ) were determined to reveal synergistic effects , suggesting potential practical applications . The main bioactive compounds of the EOs with the highest inhibitory activity were identified and quantified using GC-MS/MS analysis . Of the tested EOs , seven demonstrated a strong antimicrobial effect against E . coli , most notably oregano ( MIC 128 microg/mL ) and the thyme/oregano combination ( MIC 64 microg/mL , FIC 75 ) , while thirteen were effective against S . aureus , most notably oregano and garlic ( MIC 128 microg/mL ) , and the pelargonium/garlic combination ( MIC 32 microg/mL , FIC 375 ) . The pharmaceutical , agricultural , and food industries are promising fields for the application of these safe and natural antimicrobial agents , offering a new range of solutions to combat serious bacterial pathogens . FAU - Mraz , Petr
The field of cancer therapy is actively pursuing highly effective self-targeted drug delivery materials endowed with exceptional properties . Recently , hyaluronic acid ( HA ) , a naturally occurring polysaccharide , has been recognized as a potential target ligand for CD44 receptors , which are frequently expressed on various solid tumor cells targeted in cancer therapy . HA carbon quantum dots ( CQDs ) exhibit several advantageous properties , including a high surface area-to-volume ratio , small particle size , biocompatibility , and low cytotoxicity , making them ideal for biomedical applications , such as CD44-targeted drug delivery in ferroptosis-based cancer therapy . In this study , we synthesized HA-CQDs to enhance CD44-mediated ligand-receptor interactions targeting triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) . CQDs facilitate the intracellular generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , leading to glutathione depletion . These processes result in crucial actions such as the downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 4 , downregulation of solute carrier family 7 member 11 , and inhibition of cystine intake . The subsequent intracellular ROS , originating from lipid peroxidation , induces ferroptosis . Our HA-CQDs engage CD44 receptors , selectively targeting TNBCs and enhancing cancer recognition . This interaction potentially enhances the nanoplatform-based CD44 targeted therapeutic effects in inducing ferroptosis . FAU - Chandrasekaran , Karthikeyan
The primary active ingredient in capsicum is capsaicin . However , capsaicin bioavailability is low due to its restricted water solubility , and its potent spicy flavor will further restrict its use in food . This paper provides a complete overview of capsaicin . The biological activity of capsaicin and its impacts on metabolism in vivo are described . To increase capsaicin stability and bioavailability , several capsaicin-based delivery systems , including liposomes , double emulsions , nanoparticle mesosystems , and multiple systems made of distinct hydrocolloids , are covered in this review . Finally , potential uses for food preservation are introduced in line with this . Numerous delivery systems introduced in this review have effectively solved the problems of poor water solubility and poor bioavailability of capsaicin . Although capsaicin has potential uses in food preservation , there is little research on its application in functional food development . More innovative capsaicin-based delivery methods should be established , and more capsaicin-based applications should be developed in the future . FAU - Qiu , Xiang
Rheumatic diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) , ankylosing spondylitis ( AS ) , and psoriatic arthritis ( PsA ) are chronic autoimmune disorders characterized by persistent inflammation and oxidative stress , leading to joint damage and reduced quality of life . In recent years , increasing attention has been given to diet as a modifiable environmental factor that can complement pharmacological therapy . This review summarizes current evidence on how key dietary components-such as omega-3 fatty acids , fiber , polyphenols , and antioxidant vitamins-affect inflammatory pathways and oxidative balance . Special emphasis is placed on the Mediterranean diet , low-starch diets , and hypocaloric regimens , which have shown potential in improving disease activity . The gut microbiota emerges as a critical mediator between diet and immune function , with dietary interventions capable of restoring eubiosis and strengthening the intestinal barrier . Additionally , this paper discusses challenges in the clinical implementation of diet therapy , the need for personalized nutritional strategies , and the importance of integrating diet into holistic patient care . Collectively , findings suggest that dietary interventions may reduce disease activity , mitigate systemic inflammation , and enhance patients ' overall well-being . FAU - Kupczyk , Daria
Background : Disease-related malnutrition ( DRM ) in outpatients is associated with increased mortality and functional decline . Morphofunctional assessments , including phase angle ( PA ) , rectus femoris cross-sectional area ( RF-CSA ) , and handgrip strength ( HGS ) , provide valuable prognostic insights in the ambulatory setting . Nutritional recovery programs enriched with beta-hydroxy-beta-methylbutyrate ( HMB ) offer potential benefits in improving nutritional and functional outcomes . Objective : To evaluate the effects of a six-month nutritional recovery program combining HMB-enriched oral nutritional supplements ( HMB-ONS ) , dietary recommendations , and exercise on survival , morphofunctional markers , and adherence in malnourished outpatients . Methods : This retrospective observational study included 135 malnourished outpatients diagnosed using GLIM criteria . Morphofunctional assessments included PA ( bioimpedance analysis ) , RF-CSA ( nutritional ultrasound ) , HGS ( dynamometry ) , and the Timed Up and Go ( TUG ) test . Adherence was assessed using pharmacy retrieval records and a validated questionnaire . Changes in morphofunctional markers and their association with mortality were analyzed using multivariate Cox regression models . Results : After six months , significant improvements were observed in PA ( +47 degrees ) , RF-CSA ( +90 cm ) , HGS ( +1 kg ) , and TUG ( -93 s ) ( all p < 001 ) . These improvements were more pronounced in the high-adherence group , which also exhibited a reduced mortality risk ( HR 42 , p < 05 ) . Changes in PA and HGS were strongly associated with survival , with DeltaPA showing an HR of 27 ( 95% CI : 15-50 , p < 001 ) and DeltaHGS showing an HR of 82 ( 95% CI : 75-89 , p < 001 ) . Conclusions : A nutritional recovery program with HMB-ONS significantly improves survival and morphofunctional markers in malnourished patients , with the greatest benefits observed in those with high adherence . These findings underscore the importance of adherence-support strategies in optimizing clinical outcomes and highlight the need for further research to confirm long-term benefits . FAU - Vegas-Aguilar , Isabel
Background/Objectives : Sarcopenia and malnutrition are common in post-stroke patients , impairing recovery . Medium-chain triglycerides ( MCT ) may support muscle metabolism , while chair-stand exercises improve strength and mobility . However , their combined effects remain unclear . This study evaluated the synergistic effects of MCT supplementation and high-frequency chair-stand exercise on physical function and muscle health in post-stroke patients . Methods : A retrospective cohort study included 1080 post-stroke patients categorized into three groups : MCT supplementation alone , chair-stand exercise alone , and both combined . MCT supplementation consisted of ~40 g/day MCT oil or powder . Functional outcomes were assessed using the Functional Independence Measure ( FIM-motor ) , while muscle health was evaluated by handgrip strength ( HGS ) and skeletal muscle index ( SMI ) . Multiple linear regression analyses were performed , adjusting for confounders . Results : The combined intervention group showed significantly greater improvements in FIM-motor scores at discharge ( B = 79 , 95% CI : 64-95 , beta = 32 , p < 001 ) and FIM-motor gain ( B = 02 , 95% CI : 42-62 , beta = 29 , p < 001 ) compared to the control . Increases in HGS ( B = 441 , 95% CI : 483-398 , beta = 18 , p = 015 ) and SMI ( B = 194 , 95% CI : 102-419 , beta = 12 , p = 039 ) were also observed . Chair-stand exercise was performed a median of 62 times/day and independently improved outcomes , while MCT alone had limited effects . Conclusions : MCT supplementation combined with chair-stand exercise enhances functional recovery and muscle health in post-stroke patients , supporting its role in rehabilitation . Further research is needed to evaluate long-term effects and to examine the pharmacokinetics of MCTs , including blood concentrations , in broader populations . FAU - Yoshimura , Yoshihiro
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE : The prevention and treatment of alcoholic liver disease ( ALD ) urgently require safe and effective nutritional intervention strategies . Polyphenol extracts from sugarcane molasses ( SP ) show antioxidant and anti-inflammatory potential , yet their protective effects against ALD have not been elucidated . This study explored the therapeutic potential of SP in alcohol-induced chronic liver damage . METHODS : A graded alcohol concentration-induced liver damage model was established in C57BL/6J mice to systematically evaluate SP ' s regulatory effects on liver function markers , lipid metabolism , oxidative stress indicators , inflammatory factors , and related molecular mechanisms through a 10-week nutritional intervention . RESULTS : The results demonstrated that SP intervention significantly inhibited the liver index , alanine aminotransferase and aspartate aminotransferase activities , and triglyceride and total cholesterol accumulation in mice . SP enhanced antioxidant enzyme activities in a dose-dependent manner , with the high-dose group increasing catalase activity by 19% and superoxide dismutase activity by 97% . Furthermore , SP significantly reduced the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines , including interleukin-1beta , interleukin-6 , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha , thereby alleviating hepatic inflammatory infiltration . Mechanistic studies revealed that SP effectively mitigated alcohol-induced oxidative stress and inflammatory injury by inhibiting cytochrome P450 2E1 overexpression , regulating the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 signaling pathway , and suppressing nuclear factor-kappa B pathway activation . CONCLUSIONS : The findings reveal that SP mitigates ALD via synergistic antioxidant and anti-inflammatory mechanisms , providing a novel strategy for high-value utilization of sugarcane molasses byproducts in agricultural industries . Future studies should focus on the contribution of the different phenolics in SP and validate their specific hepatoprotective mechanisms . FAU - Wang , Min
Background : Metabolic-dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is the most prevalent chronic liver disorder globally . Probiotic supplementation has shown promise in its prevention and treatment . Although Weissella viridescens , a lactic acid bacterium with immunomodulatory effects , has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory activities , there is a lack of direct evidence for its role in alleviating MASLD . This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of W . viridescens strain Wv2365 , isolated from healthy human feces , in a high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced rat model of MASLD . Methods : Rats were randomly assigned to a normal chow diet ( NC ) , high-fat diet ( HFD ) , and HFD supplemented with W . viridescens Wv2365 ( Wv2365 ) groups . All groups were fed their respective diets for 8 weeks . During this period , the NC and HFD groups received a daily oral gavage of PBS , while the Wv2365 group received a daily oral gavage of Wv Results : Wv2365 supplementation significantly reduced HFD-induced body weight gain , improved NAFLD activity scores , alleviated hepatic injury , and restored lipid metabolism . A liver transcriptomic analysis revealed the downregulation of inflammation-related pathways , along with decreased serum levels of TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , IL-6 , MCP-1 , and LPS . Wv2365 also activated the Nrf2/HO-1 antioxidant pathway , enhanced hepatic antioxidant enzyme activities and reduced malondialdehyde levels . A gut microbiota analysis showed the enrichment of beneficial genera , including Butyricicoccus , Akkermansia , and Blautia . Serum metabolomic profiling revealed increased levels of metabolites including indole-3-propionic acid , indoleacrylic acid , and glycolithocholic acid . Conclusions : Wv2365 attenuates hepatic injury , oxidative stress , and inflammation in a rat model of high-fat-diet-induced MASLD , supporting its potential as a probiotic candidate for the modulation of MASLD . FAU - Zhang , Shuwei
BACKGROUND : Though evidence is limited , animal products like pork sausages and cheese may affect satiety differently due to their distinct protein , fat , and calcium content . This study therefore compared their acute effects on breakfast using appetite-related markers . METHODS : A total of 11 women and 13 men , with a mean age of 0 +/- 6 years and mean BMI of 5 +/- 6 kg/m , participated in this crossover design study . Concentrations of active ghrelin , glucagon-like peptide 1 ( GLP-1 ) , glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ( GIP ) , cholecystokinin ( CCK ) , insulin , glucose , leptin , and blood lipids were measured . Subjective feelings of appetite using visual analogue scales were analyzed ( 0-4 h ) as a response to two test breakfasts meals with a similar energy and macronutrient content . Appetite feelings and energy intake from an ad libitum buffet lunch were subsequently measured . Data were analyzed using two different ANOVA methods . RESULTS : The pork sausage breakfast was characterized by an earlier triglyceride ( TG ) peak than the cheese . A slower TG clearance was seen with the cheese breakfast . Ghrelin suppression was longer in the pork sausage breakfast . Active GLP-1 concentration was higher following the cheese breakfast and active GIP declined slower . The two ANOVA methods disagreed regarding the insulin effect . Subjective feelings of hunger before buffet and ad libitum energy intake were higher in males ( 791 +/- 64 kcal ) compared with females ( 344 +/- 32 kcal ) , but did not differ between breakfast types . CONCLUSIONS : Acute consumption of pork and cheese of the same energy , fat , and protein content provided detectable differences in appetite-related hormones and lipid responses . Appetite and lipid metabolism were affected by the major differentiators of the test meals , namely calcium , fatty acids and amino acids compositions . FAU - Egelandsdal , Bjorg
Quercetin is a naturally occurring flavonoid of plant origin . This naturally occurring polyphenolic compound is generally known for its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties and has been reported to be a factor in improving the antioxidant defense system , lipid metabolism , and reducing the incidence of cardiovascular and inflammatory diseases . In this article , we will take a closer look at quercetin-what it is , what properties it has , what health benefits it can bring , and in which products it can be found . Thanks to its wide spectrum of action , quercetin is gaining popularity as an ingredient in dietary supplements , as well as an element of a healthy diet supporting overall health . FAU - Ozorowski , Mateusz
Background : The gut-brain axis ( GBA ) is a complex bidirectional communication system that links the gastrointestinal tract and the central nervous system . Essential oils ( EOs ) have emerged as promising natural compounds capable of modulating this axis . Methods : A comprehensive analysis of the recent literature was conducted , focusing on studies investigating the effects of EOs on the GBA . Particular attention was given to the endocannabinoid system , the role of cannabis-derived EOs , and other plant-based EOs with potential neuroprotective and gut microbiota-modulating effects . Results : Among the EOs analyzed , cannabis essential oil ( CEO ) gained attention for its interaction with cannabinoid receptors ( CBR1 and CBR2 ) , modulating gut motility , immune responses , and neurotransmission . While acute administration of the CEO reduces inflammation and gut permeability , chronic use has been associated with alterations in gut microbiota composition , potentially impairing cognitive function . Other EOs , such as those from rosemary , lavender , eucalyptus , and oregano , demonstrated effects on neurotransmitter modulation , gut microbiota balance , and neuroinflammation , supporting their potential therapeutic applications in GBA-related disorders . Conclusions : EOs demonstrate promising potential in modulating the GBA through mechanisms including neurotransmitter regulation , gut microbiota modulation , and anti-inflammatory activity . At the same time , phytocannabinoids offer therapeutic value ; their long-term use warrants caution due to potential impacts on microbiota . Future research should aim to identify EO-based interventions that can synergistically restore GBA homeostasis and mitigate neurodegenerative and gastrointestinal disorders . FAU - Camarda , Luca
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Water and alcohol extracts of Epilobium have gained attention due to their high concentration of bioactive compounds and their associated health benefits . This review aimed to evaluate the effects of Epilobium parviflorum Schreb . ( Onagraceae ) preparations on vascular health in light of its medical applications in different human diseases over the last five years . MATERIALS AND METHODS : A literature search was undertaken of databases such as PubMed/Medline , Scopus , and Google Scholar for original articles published between March 2000 and March The keywords used were " aortic rings " , " ellagitannins " , " Epilobium " , " hydrolyzable tannins " , " hypotension " , " oenothein B " , " Onagraceae " , " systolic blood pressure " , " vasorelaxation " , and " willow herb " . RESULTS : The E . parviflorum Schreb . herb has been used as a remedy in folk medicine and has a variety of therapeutic properties . These include its preventive effects and ability to relieve symptoms in patients with benign prostate hyperplasia , prostatitis , and a variety of cancers . Other properties include effects on kidney and urinary tract diseases , lipid regulation , and skin infections . The herb also has antibacterial properties . E . parviflorum contains bioactive compounds such as oenothein B , quercetin-3-O-glucuronide , and myricetin-3-O-rhamnoside . At low doses , these compounds contribute to a reduction in oxidative stress due to their antioxidant and immunostimulatory effects , positively reducing inflammation , which can cause certain conditions . At higher concentrations , Epilobium generates reactive oxygen species that stimulate the body ' s defense mechanisms against a variety of cancers . The presence of oenothein B in E . parviflorum may influence the production and storage of nitric oxide , which , in turn , promotes vasodilation and regulates blood pressure . CONCLUSIONS : Although the potential application of E . parviflorum in metabolic disorders has not been extensively studied before , its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties are well documented and suggest potential pathways for future research and the therapeutic development of preparations to benefit vascular health . FAU - Lewandowska , Klaudia
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Traditional diet management for type 2 diabetes ( T2DM ) is often complex and effortful to sustain . Nudging offers low-effort and automatic approaches to dietary behaviour change yet remains underexplored in T2DM . This study evaluated the independent and combined 6-month effects of nudging education ( NE ) and nudging tableware ( NT ) on HbA1c , along with other secondary health outcomes , among adults with T2DM and overweight/obesity , compared to their non-nudge counterparts ( control education , CE ; control tableware , CT ) . METHODS : A 2 x 2 factorial cluster RCT was conducted in 12 primary healthcare settings in China ( pre-registered as ChiCtr2100044471 ) . Participants were randomly assigned to the nudging education group ( NE + CT ) , the nudging tableware group ( CE + NT ) , the combined group ( NE + NT ) or the full-control group ( CE + CT ) for 1 month . The primary outcome was HbA1c . Secondary outcomes included dietary behaviours , metabolic indicators , and psychological health . Generalized linear mixed models were used for analysis . RESULTS : A total of 284 participants ( mean age , 28 years ; 3% male ) were randomly assigned and included in the analysis . After 6 months , NE and NT independently led to HbA1c reductions ( -76% , p < 001 ; -33% , p = 042 , vs . controls ) , with an additive but non-interactive effect when combined , resulting in a 04% reduction ( p < 001 ) in the combined group . They also improved total calorie , macronutrient , and vegetable intake , FBG , plasma lipids , and BMI . NE additionally reduced diabetes distress and enhanced self-efficacy . CONCLUSIONS : Both NE and NT improved dietary and metabolic outcomes without increasing the psychological burden . The combined group showed the greatest benefits . Findings highlighted the importance of considering automatic processes in diabetes management . FAU - Long , Tianxue
Objectives : The study aimed to assess the intake of total fat , saturated fatty acids ( SFAs ) , and trans fatty acids ( TFAs ) from sweet and salty snacks among Polish schoolchildren and to evaluate differences by age , gender , and nutritional status . Methods : A cross-sectional study was conducted among 362 pupils aged 10-15 years . Snack consumption was assessed using a validated food frequency questionnaire . Fat content was estimated based on product labels and databases , and the Estimated Daily Intake ( EDI ) of fats was calculated . Intake levels were compared to dietary recommendations and analyzed by gender , age , and BMI category . Results : The mean fat intake from snacks was 5 g/day , covering nearly 47% of the recommended daily intake . Over 12% of students exceeded total fat recommendations , 20% exceeded SFA limits , and more than 30% surpassed the TFA intake threshold . The highest intake of fats was observed among 10-year-olds . Over 60% of students in this age group exceeded the TFA ' s upper intake level . Girls showed slightly higher intakes of total fat and SFAs than boys , although the differences were not statistically significant . Fat intake was highest among children with overweight or obesity . Conclusions : Snacks are a major contributor to unhealthy fat intake among school-aged children , particularly in the youngest age group and those with excess body weight . Early , targeted nutrition education and regulatory strategies are needed to promote healthier snacking habits and reduce the long-term risk of diet-related non-communicable diseases . FAU - Malczyk , Ewa
Background : Esculetin , 6 , 7-dihydroxycoumarin , is a bioactive compound found in various herbal plants , and is known to have health-beneficial properties including anti-obesity effects . However , there is a lack of in vivo studies to clearly determine esculetin ' s role in lipid metabolism . Objectives : In this study , we studied esculetin ' s effect on lipid accumulation using Caenorhabditis elegans and its underlying mechanisms . Methods : C . elegans were treated with esculetin ( 100 or 200 muM ) for 48 h , and their triglyceride and protein levels were measured . Additionally , behavioral patterns such as pharyngeal pumping rate , body bending rate , body sizes , and locomotive activity were analyzed . Genetic dependencies were examined by utilizing mutant worms and testing relative gene expressions . Results : C . elegans treated with esculetin displayed significantly reduced fat accumulation compared to the controls without effects on the pharyngeal pumping rate , body bending rate , or locomotive activity . Esculetin ' s fat-lowering effect was dependent on DAF-2 ( insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 [IGF-1] receptor homolog ) , DAF-16 ( Forkhead box protein O homolog ) , and AAK-2 ( 5 ' -adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase [AMPK] catalytic subunit alpha2 ) in the mutant experiments . Esculetin also significantly increased the relative expression of downstream targets of DAF-16 ( hsp-2 and sod-3 ) , AMPK-related genes ( aak-1 and aak-2 ) , a sirtuin gene , sir-1 , and a lipolysis-related gene , atgl- Conclusions : These findings suggest that esculetin inhibited fat accumulation in C . elegans and this effect was dependent on the insulin/IGF-1 and 5 ' -adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase signaling pathways . FAU - Kim , Aaron Taehwan
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : In 1998 choline was identified as an essential nutrient by the United States Institute of Medicine . Choline is known primarily for its roles in neurotransmitter production , cell membrane formation , and methyl and lipid metabolism . Since this discovery the relevance of choline to maternal , fetal , and infant health has been studied intensively . This narrative review provides a coherent update of the latest evidence for field clinicians and healthcare professionals . METHODS : A PubMed/ScienceDirect search for human clinical evidence restricted to meta-analysis and systematic/review publications from the last 10 years was undertaken . RESULTS : Meta-analysis and review publications highlight the importance of choline in supporting maternal health and fetal development during pregnancy by showing promising roles for choline in relation to neurological development , brain and liver function , reduced neural tube defect risk , and adverse pregnancy outcome risk . However , there are clear present-day gaps between habitual choline intakes and intake recommendations with the majority of pregnant and lactating women not meeting adequate intake recommendations for choline . This gap is anticipated to widen given transitions towards plant-based diets which tend to be lower in choline . CONCLUSIONS : Alongside folic acid recommendations , choline supplementation should be considered in dietary recommendations by clinicians during crucial life stages such as pregnancy and lactation when physiological demands for this critical nutrient substantially increase . FAU - Derbyshire , E J
Background : Diet-derived advanced glycation end products ( dAGEs ) are closely associated with obesity and metabolic disorders . This study investigates the therapeutic potential of myriocin ( Myr ) , a sphingolipid synthesis inhibitor , in counteracting dAGE-induced obesity and its underlying mechanisms . Methods : Male C57BL/6J wild-type mice were randomly assigned to receive either a low-AGE diet or a high-AGE diet with or without the administration of myriocin for a duration of 24 weeks . At the end of the experimental period , blood samples , whole livers , and adipose tissues were harvested for subsequent biochemical , histological , and molecular analyses . Results : Using a 24-week high-AGE diet mouse model , we demonstrate that Myr significantly reduces body weight gain ( by 76% ) and adipose tissue accumulation , while alleviating hepatic steatosis . Myr improves glucose homeostasis by lowering fasting blood glucose ( a 5% reduction ) , enhancing oral glucose tolerance , and restoring hepatic glycolysis/gluconeogenesis balance via upregulating glucokinase and suppressing G6pc . Notably , Myr reduces serum LDL-C , TG , and TC levels by 3% , 8% , and 8% , respectively , and ameliorates liver dysfunction as evidenced by normalized ALT/AST activities . Metabolomics reveal Myr reshapes amino acid , carbohydrate , and lipid metabolism pathways . Mechanistically , Myr suppresses lipogenesis by downregulating Srebp1 , Fasn , and Acc , while activating AMPK-PGC1alpha signaling to enhance mitochondrial biogenesis ( a 1-fold increase in mtDNA ) and thermogenesis via Ucp1 upregulation in brown and white adipose tissues . Conclusions : Our findings unveil Myr as a novel dual regulator of lipid and glucose metabolism through AMPK-PGC1alpha-mediated mitochondrial activation , providing the first evidence of sphingolipid inhibition as a therapeutic strategy against dAGE-induced metabolic syndrome . This study establishes a multifaceted mechanism involving hepatic lipid regulation , adipose browning , and systemic metabolic reprogramming , advancing potential clinical applications for obesity-related disorders . FAU - He , Libo
Unsaturated fatty acids , particularly omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids , have garnered increasing scientific interest due to their therapeutic potential in chronic disease management . Dietary sources such as milk provide essential unsaturated fatty acids , including linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid . Current evidence indicates that these compounds and their derivatives regulate critical physiological processes , such as neurodevelopment , visual function , immune modulation , and cardiovascular homeostasis . Their multifunctional roles encompass the structural maintenance of biological membranes , cardioprotective effects , anti-inflammatory and anti-tumor activities , and metabolic regulation . However , despite established associations between unsaturated fatty acids and chronic diseases , the mechanistic contributions of omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids to complex neuropsychiatric disorders remain poorly characterized . Furthermore , the controversial role of omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in chronic disease pathogenesis necessitates urgent clarification . This review systematically examines the structural properties , molecular mechanisms , and therapeutic applications of omega-3 and omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids in cardiovascular diseases , diabetes , cancer , dermatological conditions , neurodegenerative disorders , and depression . By integrating recent advances in dietary science , this work aims to address knowledge gaps in their neuropsychiatric implications and refine evidence-based strategies for chronic disease intervention through optimized nutritional approaches . FAU - Xu , Runcen
During pregnancy , the maternal body adapts in several ways to create an optimal environment for embryonic growth . These changes include endocrine and metabolic shifts that can lead to insulin resistance and gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) , impacting both the mother and fetus in the short and long term . Fetal macrosomia , a condition where the fetus is significantly larger than average , is a primary concern associated with GDM . Although the underlying mechanism remains unclear , a pregnancy-induced proinflammatory state , combined with altered glucose homeostasis , plays a critical role . Several cytokines and hormones , such as interleukin 6 ( IL-6 ) , insulin growth factor 1 ( IGF-1 ) , prolactin ( PRL ) , or progesterone , are essential for fetal growth , the control of the inflammatory response , and the regulation of lipid and carbohydrate metabolism to meet energy demands during pregnancy . However , although the role of these cytokines in metabolism and body growth during adulthood has been extensively studied , their implication in the pathophysiology of GDM and macrosomia is not well understood . Here , we review this pathophysiology and pose the hypothesis that an aberrant response to cytokine receptor activation , particularly involving the suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 ( SOCS2 ) , contributes to GDM and fetal macrosomia . This novel perspective suggests an unexplored mechanism by which SOCS2 dysregulation could impact pregnancy outcomes . FAU - Hernandez-Baraza , Luisa
Objective : This study aims to investigate the role of fatty acid ratios , specifically DHA/ARA and EPA/ARA , in predicting severe disability and mortality in stroke patients and compare these ratios with conventional risk factors such as age , sex , hypertension , diabetes , and dyslipidemia . Methods : A prospective study was conducted involving 298 consecutive acute ischemic stroke patients ( within 72 h of onset ) . Fatty acid ratios were measured from plasma , and all patients ' evolution was followed through hospitalization . Binary logistic regression analysis was used to identify predictors of severe disability at discharge ( Rankin 4-6 ) and in-hospital mortality , including fatty acid ratios and conventional risk factors . Results : A higher DHA/ARA ratio was associated with a reduced chance of severe disability ( OR = 81 ) , while a higher EPA/ARA ratio was associated with an increased chance of severe disability ( OR = 70 ) . Age was a significant factor , with older age ( median 70 years ) associated with a lower survivability chance ( OR = 93 ) and a higher likelihood of severe disability when surviving . Fatty acid ratios did not significantly affect mortality outcomes . For male patients , EPA/AA ratios showed a powerful association with severe disability ( p = 045 ) , while no significant effect of fatty acids was observed in females . Conclusions : Fatty acids were significant predictors of severe disability in patients with acute ischemic stroke , independent of conventional risk factors , but without having any effect on in-hospital mortality . Age remained the only significant conventional risk factor predictor of outcome . Integrating fatty acid ratios alongside conventional risk factors may improve predictions of severe post-stroke disability , potentially guiding more personalized interventions for stroke patients . FAU - Andone , Sebastian
Background : Lead ( Pb ) , a pervasive environmental toxicant with specific toxicity to bone , has been recognized as a significant etiological factor in the pathogenesis of osteoporosis . While dietary fiber ( DF ) demonstrates anti-osteoporotic potential , its protective role against Pb-induced bone loss remains unexplored . Methods : This study analyzed the association between dietary fiber , blood lead , and osteoporosis based on the NHANES database , and validated it by constructing a lead exposed mouse model . Micro CT was used to evaluate bone microstructure , ELISA was used to detect bone markers , q-PCR/Western blot was used to measure intestinal tight junction protein , flow cytometry was used to analyze Treg cells in colon/bone tissue , GC-MS was used to detect short chain fatty acids , and 16S rRNA sequencing was used to analyze changes in gut microbiota . The regulatory mechanism of dietary fiber on bone metabolism and intestinal barrier in lead exposed mice was systematically evaluated . Results : Based on NHANES data analysis , it was found that dietary fiber can reduce the risk of osteoporosis in lead exposed populations . Animal experiments have shown that dietary fiber intervention significantly increases bone density , improves bone microstructure and metabolic indicators , repairs intestinal barrier damage caused by lead exposure , and regulates immune balance in lead exposed mice . At the same time , it promotes the generation of short chain fatty acids and the proliferation of beneficial gut microbiota . Conclusions : These findings indicate that DF mitigates Pb-induced osteoporosis through gut barrier restoration , SCFA-mediated immunomodulation , and microbiota-driven Treg cell expansion along the gut-bone axis . FAU - Wang , Ruijian
Background : Sarcopenic obesity , characterized by excess fat and reduced muscle mass/function , is linked to chronic inflammation and metabolic dysfunction . Methods : This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of a 2-month multidisciplinary residential program ( MRP ) on the clinical and functional outcomes associated with the risk of sarcopenia in 61 institutionalized Italian adults with obesity ( mean age of 60 ; 36 women and 25 men ; BMI >/= 30 with metabolic comorbidities ) . The MRP included personalized nutrition , physical activity , and psychological support . Outcomes included anthropometric , biochemical , body composition , and physical performance measures ( via Short Physical Performance Battery [SPPB] ) , with sarcopenia risk evaluated using EWGSOP2 criteria . Results : Post-intervention , significant improvements were observed in SPPB scores ( +93 units , p < 001 ) , weight ( -4 kg ) , BMI ( -45 kg/m ) , fat mass ( -9 kg ) , visceral adipose tissue ( -2 g ) , and fat-free mass index ( -54 g ; all p < 01 ) . Glycemic control improved , with reductions in fasting glucose ( -4 mg/dL ) , HbA1c ( -81% ) , insulin ( -77 mcU/mL ) , and HOMA-IR ( -95 ; p < 05 ) . Lipid profiles also improved , including total cholesterol ( -32 mg/dL ) , LDL ( -10 mg/dL ) , and triglycerides ( -07 mg/dL ; all p < 001 ) . Conclusions : The MRP effectively enhanced body composition , metabolic health , and physical function , underscoring its potential as a preferred strategy for managing sarcopenic obesity in institutional settings . FAU - Rondanelli , Mariangela
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) is a prevalent health condition characterized by central obesity , insulin resistance , hypertension , and dyslipidemia , increasing the risk of cardiovascular disease and type 2 diabetes . Lifestyle interventions , particularly plant-based nutrition and exercise , are essential for managing MetS . While both strategies are well-documented independently , their synergistic effects remain less explored . This narrative review integrates findings from both domains to evaluate their combined impact on metabolic syndrome . The review examines the individual and combined impacts of plant-based nutrition and exercise on MetS-related metabolic dysfunction . METHODS : A comprehensive review of 114 peer-reviewed studies was conducted to assess the role of plant-based diets and structured physical activity in improving insulin sensitivity , lipid profiles , inflammation , and weight management . Studies investigating the mechanisms through which dietary components and exercise modalities influence metabolic health were analyzed , along with behavioral and psychological factors affecting long-term adherence . RESULTS : Plant-based diets , particularly those high in fiber , polyphenols , and healthy fats , improve glucose metabolism , reduce inflammation , and enhance cardiovascular health . Exercise complements these benefits by increasing insulin sensitivity , promoting fat oxidation , and improving lipid metabolism . When combined , plant-based nutrition and exercise provide superior metabolic outcomes , including greater reductions in visceral adiposity , improved endothelial function , and enhanced glycemic control . CONCLUSIONS : Plant-based nutrition and structured exercise are effective strategies for managing MetS . Their synergistic effects highlight the importance of integrated lifestyle interventions for long-term metabolic health . FAU - Stavitz , James
Background/Objectives : Chokeberry ( Aronia melanocarpa ( Michx . ) Elliott ) is a ( poly ) phenol-rich fruit with purported cardiometabolic benefits . However , the evidence from randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) remains inconclusive . This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to assess the effects of chokeberry supplementation on cardiometabolic outcomes , including anthropometric parameters , glycemic control , lipid profile , and blood pressure in adults . Methods : A systematic literature search was conducted in PubMed , Scopus , and Web of Science through January RCTs investigating chokeberry supplementation ( >/=2 weeks ) in adults ( >/=18 years ) with or without cardiometabolic risk factors were included . A random effects model was used to pool effect sizes , expressed as standardized mean differences ( SMDs ) with 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) . Heterogeneity was assessed using the I statistic , and risk of bias was evaluated with the Cochrane risk of bias 1 ( RoB 1 ) tool . Trial sequential analysis ( TSA ) was performed to assess the conclusiveness of the evidence . Certainty of evidence was rated using GRADE . Results : Ten RCTs ( n = 666 participants ) met the inclusion criteria . Chokeberry supplementation had no significant effects on cardiometabolic outcomes under evaluation . Subgroup analysis suggested that a chokeberry supplementation could reduce total cholesterol and LDL-C in individuals with a baseline total plasma cholesterol <200 mg/dL , and systolic blood pressure with interventions , containing >50 mg/day anthocyanin , while increasing fasting blood glucose in individuals </=50 years old . Risk of bias was unclear or high in several studies , TSA indicated inconclusive evidence for most outcomes , and the certainty of evidence was rated as very low across all cardiometabolic markers . Conclusions : Chokeberry supplementation did not significantly improve cardiometabolic outcomes in the general adult population . Limited evidence is given for potential lipid-lowering and blood pressure effects in specific subgroups . However , a high risk of bias accompanies these results . More robust RCTs with standardized interventions and dietary assessments are needed . FAU - Frumuzachi , Oleg
Background : Human milk oligosaccharides ( HMOs ) serve as critical bioactive components supporting infant growth and development . However , the influence of maternal metabolic factors during lactation on HMOs remains to be fully elucidated . This study aimed to investigate the association between maternal metabolic factors and HMOs , as well as the potential mediating effects of these factors . Methods : An observational cross-sectional study was conducted in Central South China , enrolling 196 lactating mothers . HMOs were quantified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry . Maternal metabolic factors were assessed through physical examinations . Associations between metabolic factors and HMOs were analyzed using linear regression , and mediation effects were evaluated . Results : HMOs from Central South China were predominantly composed of neutral fucosylated HMOs . Significant differences were observed in the levels of several HMOs across maternal age groups and lactation periods . The concentration of 3 ' -sialyllactose ( 3 ' -SL ) exhibited a negative association with the pre-pregnancy body mass index ( BMI ) ( beta = -16 , 95% CI : -29 , -03 ; p = 02 ) , while a positive association was found with maternal heart rate ( beta = 14 , 95% CI : 01 , 27 ; p = 04 ) . However , these associations were different between secretor and non-secretor mothers . Associations of 3 ' -SL with pre-pregnancy BMI and maternal HR were only found in the secretor mothers . Triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol mediated the associations between maternal pre-pregnancy BMI and 3 ' -sialyllactose ( 3 ' -SL ) . Conclusions : The variations of several HMOs among mothers from Central South China were associated with maternal age and lactation period . The concentration of 3 ' -SL was negatively correlated with maternal pre-pregnancy BMI . The potential mechanism underlying the influence of maternal BMI on 3 ' -SL levels may involve maternal lipid metabolism and genetic factors . FAU - Huang , Zhi
Quercetin , a natural flavonoid , present in various vegetables and fruits , has garnered increasing attraction for its potential antiallergic properties . Its broad-spectrum activity depends on its anti-inflammatory , immunomodulatory , and antioxidant effects , which target the critical pathways involved in type 2-driven allergic inflammation . Quercetin inhibits mast cell degranulation , reduces the production of histamine and pro-inflammatory cytokines , and restores homeostasis of the immune system by modulating the Th1/Th2 and Treg/Th17 balances . Additionally , its antioxidant properties help to dampen oxidative stress , a critical factor in the pathophysiology of allergic diseases . In vitro studies have consistently demonstrated quercetin ' s ability to suppress allergic reactions . In contrast , in vivo studies , particularly in murine models of allergic rhinitis , have confirmed its efficacy in relieving symptoms ( such as nasal itching , sneezing , rhinorrhea , and congestion ) and dampening type 2 mucosal inflammation . Preclinical evidence also supports its therapeutic potential in asthma , conjunctivitis , atopic dermatitis , and food allergies . However , human studies are still scarce , as only two clinical trials investigated quercetin as a monotherapy . Both studies reported promising results , including symptom reduction and improved quality of life , though larger , randomized trials are needed to validate these findings . Some other studies have investigated multicomponent products that also contain quercetin . This review aimed to report and discuss the most recent in vitro and in vivo evidence on quercetin ' s application in allergic models . It also provides a comprehensive overview of human studies , highlighting its potential as an agent in food supplements to manage patients with allergic diseases . Moreover , this review introduces a new quercetin phospholipids formulation that may represent a keystone in clinical use . The literature search was based on a PubMed consultation considering the most recent ( last five years ) publications using the keywords " quercetin and allergic disease " and " quercetin and immune system " . FAU - Naso , Matteo
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) is a condition characterized by hyperglycemia and is associated with increased risk of obesity and diabetes in exposed children . Differences in human milk composition between women with ( GDM+ ) and without GDM ( GDM- ) suggest that GDM could impact milk production and composition , potentially influencing infant growth . However , this association remains poorly understood . The objective was to study the association between GDM and human milk composition and its influence on infant growth , focusing on metabolites and bioactive molecules involved in energy metabolism . METHODS : Using a cross-sectional design , 24 metabolites were measured by GC-MS in human milk obtained at 2 months postpartum from 20 GDM+ women and 29 GDM- women . Anthropometric measures , as well as lipid and glycemic profiles , were collected . Infant weight and length data were obtained from health records . RESULTS : Human milk metabolites significantly differ between GDM+ and GDM- mothers , with higher levels of myristic acid , glycerol , uracil , arachidonic acid , and cholesterol in GDM+ milk ( p < 05 ) . Specific human milk metabolites showed distinct correlations with maternal glycemic as well as infant growth , depending on GDM status . While maternal glycemia was associated with succinate and malate in all groups , maternal glycemia was specifically correlated with valine and glutamate in GDM+ mothers . Additionally , in GDM+ women , alpha-ketoglutarate and glycine were negatively correlated with infant growth . CONCLUSIONS : The results of this study suggest that GDM can influence the mother ' s health beyond delivery , impacting the mammary gland biology with effects on the human milk composition . Further , correlations with infant growth suggest that GDM-dependent variations in milk composition potentially influence infant growth and metabolism . FAU - Fradet , Alice
Background : The long-term effects of a perinatal high-fat diet on the cardiovascular function of offspring are not well elucidated . We hypothesize that perinatal exposure to a high-fat diet alters adult cardiovascular and immune responses in a sex-specific manner . Methods : Male and female offspring were born to perinatal high-fat ( pHFD ) or control diet ( pCD ) -fed C57BL/6 mothers and weaned to a control diet . Cardiovascular function ( baseline and response to an acute isoproterenol stress test ) was quantified at 8 weeks of age , and acute blood inflammatory response to a single low dose of lipopolysaccharide at 9 weeks of age . Results : Male pHFD offspring had identical baseline cardiovascular function compared to pCD mice but a blunted response to isoproterenol ( 20-45% reductions in cardiac output , stroke volume , and left ventricular fractional shortening ) . In contrast , baseline cardiovascular parameters were reduced in female pHFD compared to pCD offspring , but there was no effect of perinatal diet on response to isoproterenol . Concentrations of TNF-alpha and IL-6 in plasma two hours after a low-dose LPS administration were highest in female pCD mice . Conclusions : Perinatal high-fat diet exposure resulted in sex-specific adaptations in cardiovascular function and immune response . Female offspring displayed baseline impairments , whereas male offspring showed latent vulnerability under stress . These differences may reflect underlying hormonal or epigenetic mechanisms that diverge by sex . Future studies should examine the roles of sex hormones and gene regulation pathways to better understand these dimorphic outcomes . These findings emphasize the importance of maternal diet in shaping offspring cardiometabolic risks and highlight potential avenues for nutritional interventions during pregnancy . FAU - Alsiraj , Yasir
Background : The triglyceride glucose ( TyG ) index has been correlated with all kinds of diseases . However , its association with hyperuricemia is still a subject of controversy . Methods : This meta-analysis encompassed relevant studies on the TyG index and hyperuricemia obtained from electronic databases , from the launch date until March The effect sizes and corresponding 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) were obtained using a random effects model . Results : Twenty-six trials with 637 , 954 subjects were incorporated in this study . It was revealed that the TyG index was linked to hyperuricemia ( OR = 67 ; 95% CI : 34 , 04 ; p < 001 ) . A dose-response analysis demonstrated that with each 1 mg/dL rise in the TyG index , the risk of being diagnosed with hyperuricemia increased by 07 times ( OR = 07 ; 95% CI : 89 , 25 ; p < 001 ) . Conclusions : The TyG index has an association with hyperuricemia . Given the constraints identified in our meta-analysis , further cohort studies will be essential to confirm this correlation . FAU - Wang , Juan
Acetate , propionate , and butyrate are major short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) produced by the gut microbiota as key metabolic byproducts . These SCFAs influence skeletal muscle homeostasis and exercise performance through various mechanisms . This review explores the current knowledge on the mechanisms by which SCFAs influence muscle mass , strength , metabolism , and inflammation . Acetate enhances mitochondrial function and glucose metabolism , while butyrate supports muscle mass preservation by suppressing inflammation and autophagy . Propionate plays complex roles , aiding metabolic regulation , but potentially impairing myogenic differentiation at high concentrations . These SCFAs modulate insulin sensitivity and oxidative stress ; their interactions with host energy systems and immunity significantly influence muscle health . Although their therapeutic potential is evident , further studies , especially human clinical trials , are necessary to validate their effective applications . This review synthesizes emerging evidence and outlines specific future research priorities . FAU - Liu , Xiaoguang
BACKGROUND : Obesity , characterized by excess body fat , has been recognized as one of the main global health problems of the current times . This article , based on the data from the Cohort study of risk factors for non-communicable diseases in Indonesia ( FRPTM ) , aims to analyze the food consumption patterns and their association with the risk of obesity and related non-communicable diseases ( NCDs ) in the Indonesian population . METHODS : The article presents data collected from 867 respondents aged 25 years and above observed for 5 years : 2011 , 2013 , 2015 , 2017 and It includes sociodemographic characteristics , consumption ( 1 x 24-h recall ) , anthropometry , and biomedical data ( lipid profile , blood glucose , blood pressure ) . RESULTS : The study identified cereals as the food group consumed in the largest amount and the largest contributor to energy , protein , carbohydrates and fiber intake . The fats and oils group exceeded the recommended intake , while vegetable and fruit consumption , and consequently the fiber intake , were far below the recommendations . The energy and macronutrient intake , and the percentage of respondents with excessive intake levels , were consequently increasing during the studied years . The consumption patterns were associated with the incidence of obesity , which increased from 9% in 2011 to 9% ( central obesity ) and 9% ( BMI-based obesity ) in CONCLUSIONS : The dynamics of the consumption patterns clearly impacted the obesity prevalence . At the same time , the NCDs biomarkers measured remained relatively stable despite increasing obesity and macronutrient intake over the study period . The study provides important insights into diet-related risks for obesity in Indonesia , with a potential to inform public health policies and relevant intervention strategies . FAU - Retiaty , Fifi
Objectives . The relationships among neuropathic pain , gut microbiota , microbiome-derived metabolites , and neuropathology have received increasing attention . This study examined the effects of two dosages of gingerol-enriched ginger ( GEG ) on mechanical hypersensitivity , anxiety-like behavior , gut microbiome composition and its metabolites , and neuropathology markers in female rats in the spinal nerve ligation ( SNL ) model of neuropathic pain . Methods . Forty female rats were assigned to 4 groups : sham-vehicle , SNL-vehicle , SNL+GEG at 200 mg/kg BW , and SNL+GEG at 600 mg/kg BW via oral gavage . All animals were given an AIN-93G diet for 5 weeks . Mechanical hypersensitivity was assessed by the von Frey test . Anxiety-like behavior was assessed by the open field test . Fecal microbiota composition and metabolites were determined using 16S rRNA gene sequencing and GC-MS , respectively . Neuropathology gene expression profiling of the amygdala was assessed by an nCounter ( ( R ) ) Neuropathology pathway panel . Results . Both GEG-treated groups showed decreased mechanical hypersensitivity and anxiety-like behavior in the SNL model . Gut microbiome diversity in both GEG groups was decreased compared with untreated SNL rats . In the SNL model , phyla such as Bacteroidota , Proteobacteria and Verrucomicrobiota were decreased . Compared with the untreated SNL group , both GEG groups exhibited increased abundance of the phyla Bacteroidota ( i . e . , Rikenella , Alistipes , Muribaculaceae , Odoribacter ) , Firmicutes ( i . e . , UBA1819 , Ruminococcaceae , Oscillospiraceae , Roseburia ) , and Verrucomicrobiota ( i . e . , Victivallis ) . GEG groups had higher levels of nine hydrophilic positive metabolites [val-glu , urocanic acid , oxazolidinone , L-threonine , L-norleucine , indole , imino-tryptophan , 2 , 3-octadiene-5 , 7-diyn-1-ol , and ( 2E ) -3- ( 3-hydroxyphenyl ) acrylaldehyde] and two hydrophilic negative metabolites [methylmalonic acid and metaphosphoric acid] , as well as lower levels of five hydrophilic metabolites [xanthine , N-acetylmuramic acid , doxaprost , adenine , and 1-myristoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine] . Among the 770 neuropathology genes , 1 gene ( PLA2G4A ) was upregulated and 2 genes ( CDK5R1 and SHH ) were downregulated in SNL rats . GEG caused the upregulation of nine genes ( APC , CCNH , EFNA5 , GRN , HEXB , ITPR1 , PCSK2 , TAF9 , and WFS1 ) and downregulation of three genes ( AVP , C4A , and TSPO ) in the amygdala . Conclusions . GEG supplementation mitigated pain-associated behaviors in female rats with neuropathic pain , in part by reversing the molecular neuropathology signature of the amygdala . This was associated with changes in the gut microbiome composition and fecal metabolites , which could play a role in mediating the effects of GEG on neuropathic pain . FAU - Shen , Chwan-Li
BACKGROUND : Extra virgin olive oil ( EVOO ) , an essential element of the Mediterranean diet ( MedDiet ) , has demonstrated considerable potential in improving mitochondrial health and protecting against chronic diseases . This narrative review aims to explore how the main phenolic compounds found in EVOO-hydroxytyrosol , oleuropein , and oleocanthal-contribute to mitochondrial health by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation . METHODS : A search for scientific evidence was carried out between October 2024 and March 2025 in different bibliographic databases such as PubMed , Web of Science , Embase , SciSpace , and ResearchRabbit databases . The search strategy included combinations of terms such as " extra virgin olive oil " , " EVOO polyphenols " , " mitochondrial function " , " oxidative stress " , " inflammation " , " mitophagy " , and " chronic diseases " . Preclinical , clinical , and mechanistic studies were included , giving priority to peer-reviewed publications . RESULTS : This narrative review shows how some bioactive components of EVOO activate cellular pathways , such as mTOR , AMPK and sirtuins , which promote mitochondrial biogenesis , improve the efficiency of the electron transport chain , and protect mitochondrial DNA integrity . Furthermore , EVOO improves mitochondrial membrane fluidity and integrity , ensuring its functionality and efficiency . On the other hand , nutrition literacy , an important component of health , is a critical determinant of people ' s eating behaviors . CONCLUSIONS : Although recent scientific evidence supports the metabolic benefits of EVOO components on mitochondrial metabolism and function , further nutritional intervention studies with these components are recommended to confirm their clinical relevance as a dietary tool aimed at preventing and/or delaying age-related metabolic diseases . FAU - Silva-Soto , Maria Angeles
Sustainable health approaches promote functional food alternatives that support metabolic well-being while reducing reliance on added sugars and artificial sweeteners . Monk fruit extract ( MFE ) , a natural , non-caloric sweetener , is gaining interest for its potential metabolic benefits , but its effects and regulatory status require further evaluation . Objective : This PRISMA-guided systematic review synthesizes findings from randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) assessing the impact of MFE on metabolic health , lipid profiles , inflammation , and regulatory considerations . Methods : The literature search was conducted across PubMed , Scopus , Web of Science , and Cochrane Library , covering studies published between 2015 and Inclusion criteria were human RCTs evaluating MFE ' s metabolic effects , while animal studies , reviews , and mixed-intervention trials were excluded . Study quality was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool and the Jadad scale . Results : Five randomized controlled trials met the inclusion criteria , demonstrating that monk fruit extract ( MFE ) reduces postprandial glucose levels by 10-18% and insulin responses by 12-22% . No severe adverse effects were observed . Regulatory analysis indicated that MFE is approved for use in the United States and China , while its status remains under review in the European Union . Conclusions : MFE shows potential as a functional food ingredient for metabolic health . However , long-term clinical trials and a harmonized regulatory framework must confirm its safety and efficacy within sustainable health strategies . FAU - Kaim , Urszula
Background : This study investigated the relationship between serum selenium concentration and metabolic markers-specifically lipid parameters and glycemic control indicators ( fasting glucose , insulin , HbA1c , HOMA-IR ) -in middle-aged women , considering age as a covariate . Methods : A total of 387 women aged 45-67 years participated . Serum levels of selenium , glucose , insulin , HbA1c , HDL , LDL , and triglycerides were measured . Multiple linear regression models were used to evaluate the predictive value of the serum selenium concentration compared to age in predicting lipid and glycemic markers . Results : Selenium concentration was significantly and positively associated with HDL cholesterol only . No significant relationships were found between selenium and glycemic markers or other lipid parameters . In contrast , age emerged as a consistent positive predictor of LDL cholesterol , fasting glucose , and HbA1c levels . Furthermore , exploratory analysis suggested that HbA1c may influence the relationship between selenium and HDL/LDL cholesterol , though no formal moderation analysis was performed . Conclusions : Although serum selenium concentrations were within the normal range , their predictive value was limited to HDL cholesterol . Age showed a stronger and more consistent association with key metabolic markers , highlighting its importance as a predictor of cardiometabolic health in middle-aged women . FAU - Schneider-Matyka , Daria
BACKGROUND : Celastrol , a pentacyclic triterpenoid active component isolated from the root bark of the traditional medicinal plant Tripterygium wilfordii , displays significant anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and immunomodulatory properties . However , its clinical application remains limited due to inadequate bioavailability . METHODS : Regarding these issues , we innovatively developed a novel peanut cultivar ( cel-peanut ) enriched with celastrol through distant hybridization combined with metabolomics screening . Guided by the research concept of " natural anti-inflammatory diets for metabolic disease management " , we established a high-fat diet-induced ApoE ( -/- ) atherosclerotic mouse model to systematically evaluate the anti-atherosclerosis effects and mechanisms of cel-peanut . RESULTS : Our results revealed that cel-peanut significantly reduced serum levels of triglycerides ( TGs ) and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) . Concurrently , cel-peanut markedly decreased the atherosclerotic lesion area and enhanced collagen content within plaques . Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that cel-peanut reduced serum malondialdehyde ( MDA ) levels and suppressed the concentration of pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-6 in atherosclerotic lesions . Furthermore , cel-peanut promoted intestinal health by modulating the composition and functionality of gut microbiota , thereby attenuating atherosclerosis progression . CONCLUSIONS : Overall , these findings indicate that cel-peanut exerts therapeutic effects against atherosclerosis through its anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , and gut microbiota-modulating properties . This study proposes a novel nutritional intervention strategy for atherosclerosis and provides a promising adjuvant strategy for clinical atherosclerosis treatment . FAU - Shi , Jiaxin
Background : Glucagon-like peptide-2 ( GLP-2 ) is a gut hormone secreted in response to nutrient intake and regulates lipid metabolism in the gut . The present study aims to elucidate the underlying mechanism of GLP-2 in stimulating gut lipid secretion in the fasted state by testing whether GLP-2 signals through the brain ' s GLP-2 receptor and melanocortin 4 receptor ( MC4R ) . Methods : Sprague-Dawley rats were implanted with a mesenteric lymph duct cannula for measuring gut lipid secretion and an intracerebroventricular cannula for infusion of a GLP-2R antagonist ( GLP-2 ( 11-33 ) ) , an MC4R antagonist ( SHU9119 ) , or saline as a control . The rat received a lipid infusion into the small intestine and a peritoneal injection of GLP-2 five hours later . Results : Brain administration of a GLP-2R antagonist or an MC4R antagonist attenuated the stimulatory effects of peripheral GLP-2 on lymph triglyceride output . These effects were associated with differential changes in the expression of key genes in jejunal endothelial cells , smooth muscle cells , and neuronal cells . Conclusions : These results support the involvement of central GLP-2R and MC4R in a neural pathway for GLP-2 to mobilize lipids stored in the gut during the post-absorptive state . FAU - Mukherjee , Kundanika
Background : Hyper-LDL-cholesterolemia is a key contributor to cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) , and both genetic predisposition and lifestyle influence it . This study aimed to develop personalized strategies for managing hyper-LDL-cholesterolemia by integrating polygenic risk scores ( PRSs ) , genetic variants , and bioactive compound interactions , leveraging a precision medicine approach . Methods : A cohort of 58 , 701 Korean adults , including 8966 individuals with hyper-LDL-cholesterolemia ( LDL >/= 160 mg/dL ) or undergoing treatment with hypocholesterolemic agents , was analyzed to investigate the interplay between genetic risk and lifestyle factors . The PRS was constructed using three key variants : PCSK9 ( rs151193009 ) , CELSR2 ( rs11102967 ) , and APOE ( rs7412 ) . Gene-lifestyle interactions were assessed , focusing on energy intake and physical activity . Computational molecular docking was utilized to investigate how bioactive compounds differentially interact with the wild-type and mutant forms of PCSK9 ( Arg93Cys ) and APOE ( Arg176Cys ) , focusing on variations in binding affinity . Results : Hyper-LDL-cholesterolemia was associated with a 3-fold increased risk of CVD . The PRS showed a significant association with a 45-fold higher likelihood of developing both elevated LDL cholesterol and reduced HDL cholesterol levels . Lifestyle interactions revealed that high energy intake and physical inactivity significantly amplified the genetic risk ( p < 05 ) . In silico analysis demonstrated that bioactive compounds , notably prodelphinidin trimer , exhibited enhanced binding affinity with wild-type PCSK9 ( Arg93Cys ) , while several compounds preferentially targeted the mutated PCSK9 , suggesting potential avenues for genotype-specific therapies . Conclusions : This study emphasizes the combined influence of genetic predispositions and lifestyle behaviors on developing hyper-LDL-cholesterolemia , and highlights potential bioactive compounds as personalized therapeutic targets . By integrating genomic data , lifestyle analysis , and molecular docking , this research provides a foundation for precision interventions tailored to an individual ' s genetic and metabolic profile , paving the way for more effective and personalized management of dyslipidemia and associated CVD risk . FAU - Liu , Meiling
Background/Objectives : Chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) is associated with increased mortality , with cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) being the primary cause of death . Proper lipid regulation may reduce CVD risk and slow CKD progression . While there is evidence that a higher plant protein intake could ameliorate lipid levels in the general population , the effects of this dietary regimen within the CKD population remain uncertain , with studies providing conflicting results . We aim to investigate the impact of increased plant protein intake on the lipid levels of CKD patients . Methods : Two electronic databases ( PubMed , Scopus ) were reviewed for controlled clinical trials assessing the effect of increased plant protein intake versus the usual CKD animal-based diet in CKD patients , published until June Results : Eleven trials , encompassing 248 patients , were included in this meta-analysis . Overall , compared to the usually recommended CKD diet , increased plant protein intake was associated with statistically significant reductions in total cholesterol ( -51 mg/dL , 95% CI -33 , -69 ) , low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) ( -71 mg/dL , 95% CI -32 , -1 ) , triglycerides ( - 88 mg/dL , 95% CI -34 , -40 ) , and Apolipoprotein B levels ( -21 mg/dL , 95% CI -18 , -25 ) . No significant changes were observed in high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) ( 09 mg/dL , 95% CI -82 , 99 ) and Apolipoprotein A levels ( 04 mg/dL , 95% CI -14 , 21 ) . Conclusions : Increased plant protein intake , mainly from soy , reduces total cholesterol , LDL , triglycerides , and ApoB in adult CKD patients . Further research is needed to assess these effects in dialysis patients and explore non-soy plant sources . FAU - Papaodyssea , Ioanna
Background/Objectives : Nutrients such as vitamin B12 , folate ( B9 ) , and polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) may independently influence cognitive health , but their combined effects and interactions remain unclear . This study aims to investigate the effects of B12 , folate , and PUFAs , including their interactions , on cognitive function in cognitively healthy older adults , considering effect modification by sex and amyloid-beta status . Methods : A cross-sectional analysis was conducted using data from 321 participants aged 60-85 y enrolled in the UK CHARIOT-PRO SubStudy . Dietary intake was assessed using the Scottish Collaborative Group Food Frequency Questionnaire , and cognitive performance was measured via the Repeatable Battery for the Assessment of Neuropsychological Status ( RBANS ) . Stratified multivariate linear regression models by sex and amyloid-beta status and models with the saturated to unsaturated fatty acid ratio ( substituted for PUFAs ) as one of the predictors were constructed . Results : Males had lower total RBANS scores with a higher PUFA intake ( beta = -97 , p = 04 ) but improved scores with increased folate ( beta = 08 , p = 04 ) . PUFA x folate revealed contrasting effects to PUFAs alone , with higher cognitive scores in the amyloid-negative group for total RBANS ( beta = 27 , 95% : 81~73 , p = 01 ) but lowered scores in the amyloid-positive group . Considering the UFA : SFA ratio , higher delayed memory scores were associated with the combined intake of folate , B12 , and PUFAs ( beta = 46 , p = 02 ) among females . In the amyloid-positive group , the negative cognitive effects observed with PUFAs were reversed when UFA : SFA was considered . Conclusions : Amyloid status and sex significantly influenced the cognitive effects of nutrient intake , with distinct patterns based on specific cognitive domains and nutrient interactions . FAU - Zhao , Chuliang
A high-fat diet leads to metabolic disturbances , which are important factors in the development of obesity . Gut microbial composition and diversity are altered by a high-fat diet . In general , a high-fat diet resulted in increased Firmicutes abundance and decreased alpha diversity . Bile acids ( BAs ) are involved in the digestion and absorption of fats in the small intestine and are also the metabolic substrates of microorganisms with bile salt hydrolase ( BSH ) activity . High-fat diets ( HFDs ) have been shown to alter gut microbiota composition and BA profiles in murine models . Similarly , probiotic supplementation reverses HFD-induced adverse effects . This review focuses on the energy composition characteristics of a high-fat diet and its effects on body weight , plasma lipid-related biochemical markers , changes in gut microbiome characteristics , and the important role of BAs . The regular mechanism by which a high-fat diet affects the intestinal microenvironment was attempted to be found . FAU - Yi , Lanlan
Background : Medium- and long-chain triacylglycerols ( MLCTs ) and sn-2 palmitate constitute approximately 70~80% of total breast milk fat . The structured lipid MLCTs and sn-2 palmitate , mimicking human milk , have demonstrated improvement in lipid absorption and energy metabolism in vitro and in animal experiments . However , clinical trials on infant formula supplied with MLCTs and sn-2 palmitate have yet to be conducted . Objectives : This study was designed to evaluate the effects on growth and lipid absorption of a novel formula with structured lipid MLCTs and sn-2 palmitate on healthy infants born at term . Methods : Infants were enrolled at 30 d postpartum and assigned to three groups based on their feeding conditions : a novel formula with MLCTs and sn-2 palmitate ( Novel-F group , n = 65 ) ; a control formula with vegetable oils and no structured lipids ( Contr-F group , n = 46 ) ; or breastfeeding ( BF group , n = 66 ) . Growth measurements ( including weight , length , and head circumference ) , stool characteristics , and fecal lipid composition ( both soap and non-soap fatty acids ) were analyzed at both baseline ( 30 d postpartum ) and endline visits ( 90 d postpartum ) . Results : The Novel-F group had significantly higher weight gains ( 2195 +/- 595 g ) during the intervention compared to the Contr-F group ( 1897 +/- 483 g ) but similar weight gains to the BF group ( 2081 +/- 614 g ) , with the changes in Z ( w/a ) following a similar pattern . Z ( l/a ) increased in the Novel-F group ( 04 , ( 95% CI : -21 to 28 ) ) and decreased in both the Contr-F ( -23 ( 95% CI : -52 to 06 ) ) and BF groups ( -20 ( 95% CI : -44 to 05 ) ) . The stools of infants in the Novel-F group had similar undigested triacylglycerols and total fatty acids compared to breastfed infants but had significantly lower levels than infants fed with the control formula at both baseline and endline visits . Conclusions : The novel infant formula with MLCTs and sn-2 palmitate is safe and well tolerated , and supports adequate weight gain and improves lipid absorption . FAU - Chen , Xiaoyan
Vaccines usually contain an adjuvant that activates innate immunity to promote the acquisition of adaptive immunity . Aluminum and lipid nanoparticles have been used for this purpose , but their accumulation or widespread circulation in the body can lead to adverse effects . In contrast , physical adjuvants , which use physical energy to transiently stress tissues , do not persist in exposed tissues or cause lasting adverse effects . Herein , we investigate the effects of intradermal injection of endotoxin-free ovalbumin ( OVA ) protein alone without additional adjuvants using a needle-free pyro-drive jet injector ( PJI ) on tumor vaccination efficacy . Intradermal injection of OVA protein alone using PJI significantly increased OVA-specific CD8 ( + ) T cell expansion in the lymph node , although lymph node swelling was much less than when aluminum hydroxide was used . The injection also induced OVA-specific killing activity and antibody production and showed strong CD8 ( + ) T cell-dependent prophylactic antitumor effects against transplanted E . G7-OVA tumors . In particular , intradermal injection of the fluorescent OVA protein significantly enhanced its uptake by XCR1 ( + ) dendritic cells , which have a strong ability to cross-present extracellular proteins in the skin and draining lymph nodes . In addition , the injection increased the expression of HMGB1 , one of the potent danger signals whose expression has been reported to increase in response to shear stress . Thus , intradermal injection of OVA protein alone without any additional adjuvants using PJI induces potent CD8 ( + ) T cell-mediated antitumor immunity by enhancing its uptake into XCR1 ( + ) dendritic cells , which have a high cross-presentation capacity accompanied by an increased expression of shear stress-induced HMGB FAU - Sonoda , Jukito
The Slovenian autochthonous breed , Krskopolje pig , is known for high fatness and better adaptability to different environmental conditions and feed resources . However , the metabolic processes underlying these adaptations , especially in response to different diets , have not yet been studied . A deeper understanding of these mechanisms could provide valuable insights into the breed ' s adaptability to different environmental conditions . Therefore , the main objective of this study was to evaluate the effect of a low-protein ( LP ) diet on adipose tissue in Krskopolje pigs reared in either organic outdoor ( n = 2 x 12 ) or conventional indoor ( n = 2 x 14 ) systems . In the outdoor system , the LP diet had no effect on adipocyte size compared to the control ( high-protein ) diet , while it increased lipogenic enzyme activities and monounsaturated fatty acid content , and decreased polyunsaturated fatty acid content ( p < 05 ) . RNA sequencing revealed the upregulation of 28 genes and the downregulation of 37 genes . The upregulated genes were mainly involved in lipid metabolism ( ACLY , FASN , ACACA , MOGAT2 ) , oxidative stress , and mitochondrial function . In the indoor system , pigs on the LP diet had smaller adipocytes ( p < 05 ) , whereas no differences were detected in the lipogenic enzyme activities or fatty acid composition ( p > 10 ) . RNA sequencing revealed 30 upregulated and 28 downregulated genes . In the indoor system , heat shock proteins ( HSP2 , HSPA6 ) were upregulated in pigs on the LP diet , while genes involved in the innate immune system ( MSR1 , TREM2 , CSF3R ) were downregulated . To conclude , the present study showed that LP diet affected adipose tissue metabolism and gene expression in Krskopolje pigs , with different transcriptomic responses observed in outdoor and indoor rearing conditions . FAU - Poklukar , Klavdija
25-hydroxyvitamin D ( 25 ( OH ) D ) regulates lipid metabolism , and its decrease is proposed as a pathogenesis of metabolic syndrome , gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) , and eventually fetal adiposity . Decreased 25 ( OH ) D is also linked with the development of gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) , which is associated with increased fetal adiposity . Fetuses are dependent on the supply of 25 ( OH ) D from maternal circulation . However , the influence of maternal serum 25 ( OH ) D on fetal adiposity remains unclear . This study aimed to investigate the association between maternal serum 25 ( OH ) D and fetal adiposity . A prospective longitudinal study was conducted in a cohort of 89 ( including 21 GDM ) singleton pregnancies . Maternal blood samples were obtained at 10 , 24 , 30 , and 36 weeks , and fetal ultrasonography was performed at 24 , 30 , and 36 weeks of gestation . Estimated fetal adiposity ( EFA ) was calculated as the average z-score of cross-sectional arm and thigh percentage fat area and anterior abdominal wall thickness as previously reported . The multiple linear regression analyses indicated that maternal 25 ( OH ) D levels across gestation were not associated with EFA at 24 and 30 weeks , while maternal 25 ( OH ) D at 24 weeks was inversely correlated with EFA at 36 weeks . Particularly , in the GDM group , maternal 25 ( OH ) D levels at 10 , 24 , 30 , and 36 weeks all showed a significant negative correlation with EFA at 36 weeks . Decreased maternal serum 25 ( OH ) D level could be an early biomarker of increased fetal adiposity in late gestation , especially in diabetic pregnancies . FAU - Akita , Keisuke
CRISPR/Cas9 has revolutionized genome editing by enabling precise and efficient genetic modifications across multiple biological systems . Despite its growing therapeutic potential , key challenges remain in mitigating off-target effects , minimizing immunogenicity , and improving the delivery of CRISPR components into target cells . This review provides an integrated analysis of physical , viral , and non-viral delivery systems , highlighting recent advances in the use of lipid nanoparticles , polymeric carriers , and hybrid platforms . We also examine an often overlooked factor : the aggregation behavior of the Cas9 protein , which may interfere with cellular uptake , the encapsulation efficiency , and nuclear localization . By comparing delivery platforms and their reported editing outcomes , we identify critical physicochemical parameters that influence therapeutic success . Finally , we propose standardized methods to assess Cas9 encapsulation and aggregation and discuss translational barriers such as manufacturing scalability and regulatory requirements . These insights aim to guide the development of safer and more effective CRISPR/Cas9-based therapies . FAU - Seijas , Ana
Xenogenic collagen matrices are used in clinical practice for soft tissue augmentation around teeth and implants , either alone or biofunctionalized with injectable platelet-rich fibrin ( iPRF ) . Their direct interaction with inflammatory cells may influence both healing and destructive inflammation processes . Therefore , expression of cyclooxygenases ( COX-1 and COX-2 ) and prostanoids ( PGE2 and TXB2 ) was studied in THP-1 monocyte/macrophage cultures exposed to porcine collagen matrices ( a non-cross-linked monolayer scaffold composed of collagen type I , collagen type III , and elastin ( MLCM ) , a bilayer scaffold made of collagen types I and III ( BLCM ) , and a volume-stable cross-linked monolayer scaffold ( VSCM ) ) . The study showed that VSCM and MLCM significantly reduced PGE2 concentrations in THP-1 monocyte cultures . iPRF further reduced PGE2 concentrations when exposed to MLCM . In contrast , incubation of THP-1 monocytes with VSCM and BLCM resulted in a significant increase in TXB2 concentrations compared with control conditions . Incubation of macrophages with MLCM , VSCM , and BLCM increased PGE2 concentrations , with VSCM and BLCM additionally increasing TXB2 concentrations . iPRF in macrophage cultures with VSCM and BLCM also resulted in increased PGE2 and TXB2 concentrations compared with control conditions . Confocal microscopy revealed no visible differences in COX-1 immunoexpression in monocytes and macrophages cultured with collagen matrices , either with or without iPFR . Weak positive COX-2 immunofluorescence was observed in monocytes , while moderate positive immunofluorescence was detected in macrophages . In conclusion , it can be suggested that the studied collagen matrices interact with monocytes/macrophages , with MLCM exhibiting the highest compatibility . FAU - Drozdzik , Agnieszka
The link between periodontal disease ( PD ) and acute coronary syndromes ( ACSs ) is predominantly attributed to the atherosclerotic process , mediated by systemic inflammation . However , the correlation between the severity of PD , characterized by the presence of periodontal pathogens , and systemic inflammation in patients with ACS remains inadequately clarified . This study aims to assess the association between the severity of PD and systemic inflammatory biomarkers , along with lipid profiles , in patients with ACS . In total , 42 patients with ACS and concomitant PD were divided into two groups based on the presence of periodontal pathogens belonging to the red or red-orange complexes . Group 1-29 patients displayed pathogens from the red complex ( RC ) and group 2-13 patients displayed pathogens from the red-orange complex ( ROC ) . All participants underwent a comprehensive dental examination , including DNA sampling from the periodontal pockets for pathogen detection . Systemic inflammation was evaluated alongside assessments of lipid profiles . Inflammatory markers were more pronounced in the RC group compared with the ROC group . Moreover , patients in the RC group showed significantly higher monocyte-to-lymphocyte ratios ( 41 +/- 20 vs . 28 +/- 12 ; p = 002 ) , platelet-to-lymphocyte ratios ( 50 +/- 85 vs . 90 +/- 84 ; p = 02 ) , serum C-reactive protein levels ( 34 +/- 08 mg/L vs . 46 +/- 03 mg/L ; p = 03 ) , and serum uric acid levels ( 9 +/- 49 mg/dL vs . 4 +/- 26 mg/dL ; p = 006 ) . Concerning lipid profiles , the RC group exhibited significantly higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL ) levels ( 60 +/- 63 mg/dL vs . 70 +/- 34 mg/dL ; p = 0007 ) and significantly lower high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL ) levels ( 29 +/- 50 mg/dL vs . 56 +/- 07 mg/dL ; p = 002 ) . The severity of PD , indicated by the concomitant presence of pathogens from the red and orange complexes , is associated with an unfavorable lipid profile and elevated inflammatory biomarkers . These findings highlight the potential importance of periodontal intervention in the prevention of ACS . FAU - Rodean , Ioana-Patricia
Neuronal apoptosis is an early and critical pathological hallmark of many chronic neurodegenerative diseases , often occurring silently long before the appearance of overt clinical symptoms . In this study , we engineered astrocytes utilizing a dual-biomarker recognition synNotch system ( dual-synNotch ) . This system is designed to specifically identify neuronal apoptosis through the ' AND Gate ' activation mechanism , which is triggered by the simultaneous sensing of the apoptotic signal phosphatidylserine ( PS ) and the neuronal signal ganglioside Gt1b . Upon detection of these neuronal apoptotic signals , the synNotch receptors are activated , inducing the expression of two key molecules : secreted Gaussia luciferase ( GLuc ) , a highly detectable reporter that can cross the blood-brain barrier ( BBB ) , and brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) , a neuroprotective molecule that promotes neuronal survival by inhibiting apoptosis and enhancing memory and cognitive function . This engineered system effectively converts and amplifies early , imperceptible neuronal apoptotic signals into detectable outputs , enabling convenient in vitro monitoring and diagnosis . Therefore , it represents a promising strategy for the early detection and intervention of neurodegenerative diseases associated with neuronal apoptosis . FAU - Liang , Shi-Yu
mA methylation modification is an important genetic modification involved in biological processes such as sexual maturation , antibacterial , and antiviral in aquatic animals . However , few studies have been conducted in aquatic animals on the relationship between mA methylation modification and autophagy-inflammation induced by lipid metabolism disorders . In the present study , a high-fat ( HF ) group and HF-MLP group ( 1 g mulberry leaf polysaccharides ( MLPs ) /1 kg HF diet ) were set up . The mid-hind intestines of Megalobrama amblycephala juveniles from the two groups were collected for MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq after an 8-week feeding trial . The mA peaks in the HF and HF-MLP groups were mainly enriched in the 3 ' Untranslated Region ( 3 ' UTR ) , Stop codon , and coding sequence ( CDS ) region . Compared with the HF group , the mA peaks in the HF-MLP group were shifted toward the 5 ' UTR region . ' RRACH ' was the common mA methylation motif in the HF and HF-MLP groups . Methyltransferase mettl14 and wtap expression in the intestines of the HF-MLP group were significantly higher compared with the HF group ( p < 05 ) . A total of 21 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) with different peaks were screened by the combined MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq analysis . Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes ( KEGG ) enrichment analysis enriched BCL2 interacting protein 3 ( bnip3 ) to autophagy-animal and mitophagy-animal signaling pathways , etc . , and nucleotide-binding domain leucine-rich repeat protein 1 ( nlrp1 ) was enriched to the Nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain ( NOD ) -like receptor signaling pathway . Combined MeRIP-seq and RNA-seq analysis indicated that the expression pattern of bnip3 was hyper-up and that of nlrp1 was hyper-down . Gene Set Enrichment Analysis ( GSEA ) analysis confirmed that the intestinal genes of HF-MLP group positively regulate lysosomal and autophagy-animal signaling pathways . In the present study , we demonstrated that mA methylation modification plays a role in regulating autophagy-inflammatory responses induced by HF diets by MLPs , and further explored the molecular mechanisms by which MLPs work from the epigenetic perspective . FAU - Jiang , Wenqiang
Aortic dissection ( AD ) is a life-threatening vascular condition with limited pharmacological options , and shared risk factors with cardiac disease include hypertension , atherosclerosis , smoking , and dyslipidemia . This study investigated Ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) , a ferroptosis inhibitor , in a BAPN/Ang-II-induced mouse model of AD , revealing significant therapeutic potential . Fer-1 significantly reduced AD incidence and mortality by preserving aortic wall integrity . RNA sequencing identified 922 differentially expressed genes , with 416 upregulated and 506 downregulated . Bioinformatics analysis revealed that Fer-1 modulates key regulators , such as MEF2C and KDM5A , impacting immune responses , oxidative stress , apoptosis , and lipid metabolism . Additionally , Fer-1 alters miRNA expression , with the upregulation of miR-361-5p and downregulation of miR-3151-5p , targeting pathways involved in inflammation , oxidative stress , and smooth muscle cell ( SMC ) phenotypic stability . Functional pathway analysis highlighted the inhibition of actin cytoskeleton , ILK , and IL-17 signaling , essential for SMC differentiation and extracellular matrix remodeling . Gene interaction network analysis identified 21 central molecules , including CXCR3 , ACACA , and BPGM , associated with lipid metabolism , inflammation , and vascular remodeling . This research elucidates the mechanism of ferroptosis in AD pathogenesis and establishes Fer-1 as a promising therapeutic intervention . AD and cardiac diseases share molecular mechanisms , risk factors , and pathological processes , positioning AD within the broader scope of cardiovascular pathology . By attenuating lipid peroxidation , oxidative stress , and inflammation , Fer-1 may have cardioprotective effects beyond AD , providing a foundation for future translational research in cardiovascular medicine . FAU - Shih , Chun-Che
Glyoxal ( GO ) is a reactive dicarbonyl derived endogenously from sugars and other metabolic reactions within cells . Numerous exogenous sources of this compound include tobacco smoking , air pollution , and food processing . GO is toxic to cells mainly due to its high levels and reactivity towards proteins , lipids , and nucleic acids . We speculate that glyoxal could be involved in erythrocyte protein damage and lead to cell dysfunction . The osmotic fragility and level of amino and carbonyl groups of membrane proteins of erythrocytes incubated for 24 h with GO were identified . The amount of thiol , amino , and carbonyl groups was also measured in hemolysate proteins after erythrocyte treatment with GO . In hemolysate , the level of glutathione , non-enzymatic antioxidant capacity ( NEAC ) , TBARS , and activity of antioxidant enzymes was also determined . The study ' s results indicated that GO increases erythrocyte osmotic sensitivity , alters the levels of glutathione and free functional groups in hemolysate proteins , and modifies the activity of antioxidant enzymes . Our findings indicate that GO is a highly toxic compound to human erythrocytes . Glyoxal at concentrations above 5 mM can cause functional changes in erythrocyte proteins and disrupt the oxidoreductive balance in cells . FAU - Kopera , Michal
Obesity is a metabolic condition of epidemic scale . Previously , we showed that antioxidant extracts from Ribes nigrum had antioxidant and anti-adipogenic effects in mature adipocytes ( AD ) . Here , we evaluated an aqueous extract from Peumus boldus ( Boldo ) in AD and studied its effect on reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and lipid production . We analyzed the antioxidant activity ( AA ) of the Boldo extract using the DPPH technique and polyphenol ( Pph ) content via Folin ' s reagent . In AD , we evaluated ROS production , catalase ( CAT ) activity , intracellular triglyceride ( Tg ) and cholesterol ( Chol ) contents , nitric oxide ( NO ) production via Griess reagent , and the levels of glycerol ( Gly ) and TNF-alpha released in the culture medium . We showed that the Boldo extract has high AA . In vitro , Boldo treatment decreased ROS intracellular production and CAT activity . In addition , the Boldo extract was effective in reducing Tg and Chol levels and NO production . We did not identify significant differences in Gly released or TNF-alpha secreted . We suggest that the Boldo extract has antioxidant and anti-adipogenic effects , but we did not observe lipolytic effects . Boldo did not modify inflammatory markers . FAU - Montaldo , Laura
Severe dental pulp inflammation can lead to tissue lysis and destruction , underscoring the necessity for effective treatment of pulpitis . N-acetyltransferase 10 ( NAT10 ) -mediated N4-acetylcytidine ( acC ) modification has recently emerged as a key regulator in inflammatory processes . However , whether NAT10 affects the inflammatory response in human dental pulp stem cells ( hDPSCs ) remains unelucidated . In this study , elevated NAT10 expression was observed in pulpitis tissues and LPS-stimulated hDPSCs . Knockdown of NAT10 led to reduced inflammatory gene expression and lower reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production in LPS-stimulated hDPSCs , while the chemotactic migration of macrophages was also suppressed . Similar results were observed when hDPSCs were treated with Remodelin , an inhibitor of NAT Differentially expressed genes identified through RNA sequencing were significantly enriched in inflammatory signaling pathways after NAT10 depletion . Among the differential genes , pentraxins 3 ( PTX3 ) was identified as the potential target gene due to the presence of the acC modification site and its known ability to regulate dental pulp inflammation . The mRNA and protein levels of PTX3 were reduced in NAT10-deficient cells , along with a decrease in its mRNA stability . Exogenous PTX3 supplementation partially reversed the inflammatory inhibition induced by NAT10 knockdown . Further evidence in vivo revealed that Remodelin treatment attenuated the severity of dental pulp inflammation in rats with pulpitis . In summary , these data indicated that NAT10 deficiency inhibited the stability of PTX3 mRNA and further inhibited hDPSC inflammation , while Remodelin might be a potential therapeutic agent for pulp capping . FAU - Ni , Zihan
Trypanosomatids constitute a family of parasitic protozoa that cause significant human and veterinary diseases that are classified as neglected zoonotic diseases ( NZDs ) . In a rapidly evolving world , these diseases have the potential to become a world health problem no longer solely associated with low-income countries . Therefore , the development of new strategies to control and restrain the dissemination of trypanosomatids is imperative . Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) are a heterogeneous group of membrane-enclosed vesicles released by prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells . They can be found in diverse body fluids that carry biologically active molecules , including proteins , nucleic acids , lipids , and carbohydrates . EVs participate in cell-to-cell communication by delivering their cargo content to recipient cells . Thus , EVs play a role in regulating normal physiological processes , including immune surveillance and tissue repair , as well as being involved in pathological conditions , like cancer . In recent years , EVs have attracted significant attention from the scientific community , mainly due to their immune regulatory properties . Therefore , this review examines the role played by trypanosomatid-derived EVs in leishmaniases and trypanosomiasis , highlighting their biological role in host-parasite communication and exploring their potential future applications in controlling NZDs , especially those caused by trypanosomatids . FAU - Rodrigues , Armanda
In lactating dairy cows , negative energy balance ( NEB ) induces metabolic shifts , including enhanced lipolysis , leading to elevated concentrations of free fatty acids ( FFAs ) in circulation . Metabolic changes affect milk fat synthesis and the characteristics of milk fat globules ( MFGs ) , particularly their size and distribution . Systemic FFA release inversely correlates with the restoration of the body condition score ( BCS ) , suggesting that recovering the BCS may mitigate the negative effects of NEB on milk fat composition . This study aimed to investigate the relationship between BCS restoration , metabolic burden , and their effects on MFG characteristics in lactating cows . The study was conducted on two dairy farms ( F1 and F2 ) with 80 Holstein-Friesian cows . Cows were grouped according to farm and diet , with average lactation yields of 9653 +/- 259 kg ( F1 ) and 9548 +/- 341 kg ( F2 ) . Milk composition was analyzed , and blood and milk samples were collected at four lactation stages . The results showed a significant correlation between elevated circulating FFA concentrations , resulting from adipose tissue lipolysis during NEB , and alterations in MFG size and distribution . The restoration of BCS was inversely correlated with FFA release , suggesting that improvements in the BCS may mitigate the adverse effects of NEB on milk fat synthesis by regulating lipolysis . Additionally , higher beta-hydroxybutyrate ( BHBA ) levels were associated with a reduction in MFG diameter , indicating disruptions in lipogenesis during metabolic stress . These findings highlight the complex relationship between metabolic stress , BCS restoration , and MFG characteristics , with implications for milk fat synthesis in lactating cows . FAU - Mlynek , Krzysztof
Three-finger toxins ( TFTs ) , including neurotoxins and cytotoxins , form one of the largest families of snake venom proteins and interact with various biological targets . Neurotoxins target proteinaceous receptors while cytotoxins interact mainly with the lipids of cell membranes and to a lesser extent with carbohydrates . However , no data about the interaction of TFTs with nucleic acids can be found . To detect this interaction , we applied spectrophotometry , ion-paired HPLC and electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( EMSA ) . Using spectrophotometry , we found that TFTs from cobra venom increased the optical density of an RNA solution in a time-dependent manner indicating toxin interaction with RNA . A decrease in the net negative charge of the RNA molecule upon interaction with neurotoxin II from cobra venom was revealed by ion-pair HPLC . EMSA showed decreased electrophoretic mobility of both RNA and DNA upon addition of different TFTs including the non-conventional cobra toxin WTX and water-soluble recombinant human three-finger protein lynx We suggest that the interaction with nucleic acids may be a common property of TFTs , and some biological effects of TFTs , for example , cytotoxin-induced apoptosis in cancer cell lines , may be mediated by interaction with nucleic acids . FAU - Osipov , Alexey V
The brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) has become one of the cornerstones of neuropathology , influencing synaptic plasticity , cognitive resilience , and neuronal survival . Apart from its molecular biology , BDNF is a powerful target for transformative benefit in precision medicine , leading to innovative therapeutic approaches for neurodegenerative and psychiatric diseases like Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) , Parkinson ' s disease ( PD ) , major depressive disorder ( MDD ) , and post-traumatic stress disorder ( PTSD ) . Nevertheless , clinical applicability is obstructed by hurdles in delivery , patient-specific diversity , and pleiotropic signaling . Here , we summarize findings in BDNF research , including its regulatory pathways and diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers and integrative therapeutic approaches . We describe innovative delivery systems , such as lipid nanoparticle-based mRNA therapies and CRISPR-dCas9-based epigenetic editing that bypass obstacles such as BBB ( blood-brain barrier ) and enzymatic degradation . The recent implementation of multiplex panels combining BDNF biodynamic indicators with tau and amyloid-beta signaling markers showcases novel levels of specificity for both early detection and potential therapeutic monitoring . Humanized preclinical models like iPSC-derived neurons and organoids point to the key role of BDNF in neurodeveloping and neurodegenerative processes , paralleling advances in bridging preclinical observation and clinical environments . Moreover , novel therapeutic tools delivering TrkB activators or the implementation of AI-based dynamic care platforms enable tailored and scalable treatments . This review also aims to extend a framework used in the understanding of BDNF ' s relevance to traditional neurodegenerative models by situating more recent work detailing BDNF ' s actions in ischemic tissues and the gut-brain axis in the context of systemic health . Finally , we outline a roadmap for the incorporation of BDNF-centered therapies into worldwide healthcare , highlighting ethical issues , equity , and interdisciplinary decomposition . The therapeutic potential of BDNF heralds a new era in neuroscience and medicine , revolutionizing brain health and paving the way for the advancement of precision medicine . FAU - Toader , Corneliu
Metabolic-dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) has emerged as a significant public health concern , attributed to its increasing prevalence and correlation with metabolic disorders , including obesity and type 2 diabetes . Recent research has highlighted that mitochondrial dysfunction can result in the accumulation of lipids in non-adipose tissues , as well as increased oxidative stress and inflammation . These factors are crucial in advancing the progression of MASLD . Despite advances in the understanding of MASLD pathophysiology , challenges remain in identifying effective therapeutic strategies targeting mitochondrial dysfunction . This review aims to consolidate current knowledge on how mitochondrial imbalance affects the development and progression of MASLD , while addressing existing research gaps and potential avenues for future research . This review was conducted after a systematic search of comprehensive academic databases such as PubMed , Embase , and Web of Science to gather information on mitochondrial dysfunction as well as mitochondrial-based treatments for MASLD . FAU - Li , Xiangqiong
Cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) , including heart failure ( HF ) , hypertension , myocardial infarction ( MI ) , and atherosclerosis , are increasingly linked to gut microbiota dysbiosis and its metabolic byproducts . HF , affecting over 64 million individuals globally , is associated with systemic inflammation and gut barrier dysfunction , exacerbating disease progression . Similarly , hypertension and MI correlate with reduced microbial diversity and an abundance of pro-inflammatory bacteria , contributing to vascular inflammation and increased cardiovascular risk . Atherosclerosis is also influenced by gut dysbiosis , with key microbial metabolites such as trimethylamine-N-oxide ( TMAO ) and short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) playing crucial roles in disease pathogenesis . Emerging evidence highlights the therapeutic potential of natural compounds , including flavonoids , omega-3 fatty acids , resveratrol , curcumin , and marine-derived bioactives , which modulate the gut microbiota and confer cardioprotective effects . These insights underscore the gut microbiota as a critical regulator of cardiovascular health , suggesting that targeting dysbiosis may offer novel preventive and therapeutic strategies . Further research is needed to elucidate underlying mechanisms and optimize microbiome-based interventions for improved cardiovascular outcomes . FAU - Muttiah , Barathan
This study investigated whether exercise training improved cholesterol metabolism through modifying alternative splicing of the low-density lipoprotein receptor ( LDLR ) . Blood lipids and expressions of LDLR splice variants were compared between exercise-trained and non-trained young adults with normal and high cholesterol . The expression of LDLR splice isoforms were examined using RT-PCR and the histone H3K36me3 by CHIP-assay in mouse liver following a 13-week normal or high-cholesterol-diet combined with or without 8 weeks of aerobic exercise-training . The influence of histone modifications on LDLR alternative splicing was examined in HepG2 cells ( human liver cell-line ) . Expression levels of LDLR deletions in exons 4 and 12 ( LDLR-Exon4 and LDLR-Exon12 ) were significantly higher in the obese adults with high-cholesterol . These LDLR splice variants were significantly lower in the exercise-trained than non-trained group with normal cholesterol . Thirteen weeks of high-cholesterol feeding increased LDLR-Exon14 expression in mice , which was diminished after 8 weeks of exercise training . When H3-K36me3 or the MORF-related gene on chromosomes 15 were overexpressed and interfered , the levels of LDLR-Exon4 and LDLR-Exon12 expression in HepG2 cells were significantly augmented and inhibited , respectively . Hypercholesterolemia was associated with augmented expressions of LDLR splice variants in obese adults and following high-cholesterol diet in mice . Aerobic exercise training prevented and reversed the dyslipidemia-related alternative splicing of LDLR pre-mRNA . The histone modifications contributed to the alternative splicing . FAU - Zhao , Jinfeng
Perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) is a persistent environmental contaminant that resists biological degradation and accumulates in organisms . It disrupts zebrafish embryo development , affecting their heartbeat rate and locomotion . Meanwhile , probiotics are known to enhance the development and ossification of zebrafish embryos . In this study , we examined the toxic effects of PFOA on growth and bone formation in zebrafish and the potential of the probiotic Bacillus subtilis var . natto to counteract its toxicity . Larvae were exposed to 0 , 50 , or 100 mg/L PFOA from hatching to 21 days post-fertilization ( dpf ) , with or without dietary probiotic supplementation ( 10 CFU/larva/day ) , and they were sampled at 7 , 14 , and 21 dpf . PFOA exposure reduced standard length at 21 dpf , while the co-administration of probiotics mitigated these effects . Craniofacial cartilage defects appeared in larvae exposed to 50 mg/L PFOA at 7 and 14 dpf , while 100 mg/L PFOA impaired bone development at 7 dpf . Probiotics counteracted these abnormalities . PFOA also delayed ossification , correlating with the downregulation of col10a1a , runx2b , and cyp26b1 , while the probiotic treatment restored normal ossification . These findings improve our understanding of PFOA ' s detrimental effects on zebrafish growth and bone formation while demonstrating the protective role of probiotics against PFOA-induced developmental toxicity . FAU - Giommi , Christian
The jasmonic acid ( JA ) signaling pathway has been demonstrated to play a crucial role in plant defense against herbivorous insects . However , the relationship between Ectropis obliqua-induced defensive metabolites and the JA signaling pathway in tea plants remains poorly understood . In this study , we investigated seven key special metabolites , including p-coumaroylputrescine , feruloylputrescine , prunin , naringenin , and three monolignols , to address this knowledge gap . Epicatechin was selected as a positive control based on its well-documented regulation through the JA signaling pathway . Notably , the content of all selected compounds was significantly increased by E . obliqua infestation . Furthermore , exogenous application of high-dose methyl jasmonate ( MeJA ) induced the accumulation of six of the eight compounds , excluding p-coumaryl alcohol and sinapyl alcohol , whereas low-dose MeJA failed to elicit their accumulation . To confirm the results , we screened two bioactive molecules , D-allose and L-theanine , which significantly increased the endogenous JA levels at low concentrations . Interestingly , neither D-allose nor L-theanine triggered the biosynthesis of these defensive compounds . Additionally , D-allose-treated tea leaves had no significant effect on the performance of E . obliqua larvae . These findings demonstrate that the metabolic accumulation induced by E . obliqua is mediated through a high-threshold JA signaling cascade . This study provides novel insights into the relationship between plant resistance and JA signaling pathway , advancing our understanding of special metabolites mediated plant-insect interactions . FAU - Yu , Yongchen
Overweight and obese individuals show lower mortality rates or better prognoses than those of normal weight in a variety of diseases , a phenomenon called the " obesity paradox " . An inverse association of adiposity with atherosclerosis has been observed in both humans and mice . To dissect phenotypic and genetic connections between the traits , 154 female and 145 male F2 mice were generated from an intercross between BALB/cJ and LP/J apolipoprotein E-deficient mice and fed a Western diet for 12 weeks . Atherosclerotic lesion size in the aortic root , body weight , plasma lipids , and glucose were measured , and genotyping was performed on miniMUGA SNP arrays . Quantitative trait locus ( QTL ) analyses on all F2 mice with sex as a covariate revealed four significant QTLs on chromosomes ( Chr ) 3 , 6 , 13 , and 15 for atherosclerosis and three significant QTLs on Chr2 , 7 , and 15 for body weight . Chr15 QTL for atherosclerosis overlapped with one for body weight near 36 Mb . After adjusting for variation in body weight , Chr15 atherosclerosis QTL was downgraded from significant to suggestive linkage . Body weight was inversely correlated with atherosclerotic lesion sizes and accounted for more variance than a single other risk factor for atherosclerosis among F2 mice . Analysis of public data collected from two backcross cohorts revealed strong correlations between body weight and fat mass in adult mice ( r >/= 93 ; p </= 6 x 10 ( -136 ) ) . Thus , the obesity paradox in atherosclerosis is partially attributable to shared genetic components that have an opposite effect on adiposity and atherosclerosis . FAU - Chen , Mei-Hua
Gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) requires lifestyle changes that may alter exposure to endocrine-disrupting chemicals ( EDCs ) . This study aimed to assess maternal and fetal exposure to EDCs-including bisphenol-A ( BPA ) , monoethyl phthalate ( MEP ) , and perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) -during the COVID-19 pandemic and to evaluate their association with fetal birthweight . Maternal urine ( second and third trimester ) and paired cord blood samples were analyzed from 58 GDM and 118 non-GDM pregnancies using UPLC-MS/MS . Significant correlations were found between maternal urine and cord blood levels of BPA and MEP . Cord blood BPA levels were significantly lower in GDM mothers ( 35 vs . 72 mug/L , p < 05 ) , suggesting reduced exposure due to dietary interventions . However , maternal urinary BPA levels in GDM pregnancies were positively associated with fetal birthweight ( beta = 69 , p < 05 ) , indicating increased susceptibility to obesogenic effects . PFOA was present in all cord blood but only 41% of maternal urine samples . These findings underscore the dual impact of GDM-related lifestyle changes : reduced EDC transfer to the fetus , yet persistent metabolic vulnerability . FAU - Hong , Subeen
The sodium/proton exchanger NHA2 , also known as SLC9B2 , is important for insulin secretion , renal blood pressure regulation , and electrolyte retention . Recent structures of bison NHA2 has revealed its unique 14-transmembrane helix architecture , which is different from SLC9A/NHE members made up from 13-TM helices . Sodium/proton exchangers are functional homodimers , and the additional N-terminal helix in NHA2 was found to alter homodimer assembly . Here , we present the cryo-electron microscopy structures of apo human NHA2 in complex with a Fab fragment and also with the inhibitor phloretin bound at 8 and 9 A resolution , respectively . We show how phosphatidic acid ( PA ) lipids bind to the homodimer interface of NHA2 on the extracellular side , which we propose has a regulatory role linked to cell volume regulation . The ion binding site of human NHA2 has a salt bridge interaction between the ion binding aspartate D278 and R432 , an interaction previously broken in the bison NHA2 structure , and these differences suggest a possible ion coupling mechanism . Lastly , the human NHA2 structure in complex with phloretin offers a template for structure-guided drug design , potentially leading to the development of more selective and potent NHA2 inhibitors . FAU - Jung , Sukkyeong
Researchers have long focused on the accumulation of amyloid beta ( Abeta ) peptides in the brain as a primary pathological hallmark driving cognitive decline . This study investigated the neuroprotective effects of Rosa rugosa ( RR ) root extract and its key bioactive constituent , oleamide , against amyloid beta ( Abeta ) -induced neurotoxicity . Initially , an ethanolic extract of RR root was screened via in vitro assays to assess antioxidant and cytoprotective potential in rat pheochromocytoma cells . Subsequent fractionation , open-column chromatography , and preparatory thin-layer chromatography led to the isolation of oleamide , confirmed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and H/C nuclear magnetic resonance analyses . In vivo experiments using intracerebroventricularly injected Abeta in male mice demonstrated that both RR root extract and oleamide significantly improved cognitive performance in the Y-maze and passive avoidance tests . Additionally , oleamide restored acetylcholine levels and reduced malondialdehyde concentrations in brain tissue , indicating mitigation of oxidative stress and support of cholinergic function . No significant toxicity was observed , as evidenced by stable serum transaminase levels and unaltered body or brain weights . These findings highlight oleamide ' s potential to protect against Abeta-driven pathology through multiple mechanisms , including reduced lipid peroxidation and improved neurotransmission . Further investigations into oleamide ' s molecular targets and synergy with existing therapies may advance its development as a novel candidate for Alzheimer ' s disease prevention or adjunct treatment . FAU - Park , Chan Kyu
Lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA ) , a key bioactive lipid , modulates cellular functions through interactions with LPA receptors ( LPAR1-6 ) of the G protein-coupled receptor ( GPCR ) family , participating in both physiological and pathological processes . While LPA/LPAR signaling typically promotes cancer progression by regulating angiogenesis and cancer cell metastasis , our study unexpectedly reveals that LPA exhibits an inhibitory effect on cellular activity in hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . We further investigate the specific receptor subtypes mediating these effects and elucidate the underlying mechanisms at the cellular , tissue , and organismal levels . Pharmacological studies demonstrated that LPA predominantly inhibits HCC progression through activation of LPAR Mechanistically , LPA/LPAR6 activation suppresses HCC proliferation , migration , and epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) . In vivo , LPAR6 overexpression in a nude mouse xenograft model significantly reduced tumor growth rate and volume , accompanied by decreased Ki-67 expression in tumor tissues , as shown by immunohistochemical analysis . Transcriptomic analysis combined with Western blot experiments demonstrated that LPA/LPAR6 inhibits YAP/TAZ nuclear translocation , thereby suppressing HCC cell proliferation and migration . In conclusion , these findings suggest that enhancing LPAR6 expression or developing LPAR6 agonists may offer a promising therapeutic strategy for adjuvant cancer treatment . FAU - Bao , Gegentuya
Insulin resistance is more common in the elderly , and with the improvement in people ' s living standards and changes in lifestyle habits , the incidence of insulin resistance in other age groups is also increasing year by year . Overweight and obesity caused by abnormal fat metabolism or accumulation can significantly reduce glucose intake , which is the direct cause of insulin resistance and the trigger for the occurrence and development of type II diabetes . This article reviews and analyzes relevant literature on empirical research on the effect of regular exercise on improving insulin resistance . It was found that the most important step in carbohydrate metabolism is the translocation of glucose transporter 4 ( GLUT4 ) to the cell membrane , carrying water-soluble glucose through the lipid soluble cell membrane to complete carbohydrate transport . The process of glucose transporter protein translocation to the cell membrane can be driven by two different signaling pathways : one is the insulin information transfer pathway ( ITP ) , the second is to induce the ITP of monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) through hypoxia or muscle contraction . For type II diabetes patients , the insulin signal transmission pathway through insulin receptors ( IRS , IRS ) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) ( PI3K ) is damaged , which results in the decrease in glucose absorption stimulated by insulin in skeletal muscle , while the noninsulin signal transmission pathway of AMPK in these patients is normal . It can be seen that regular exercise can regulate glucose intake and the metabolism of skeletal muscle , improve insulin resistance , reduce fasting blood glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin in diabetes patients , and thus , effectively regulate blood glucose . However , many steps in the molecular mechanism of how exercise training improves systemic insulin resistance are still not fully understood , and further discussion is needed in the future . FAU - Zhang , Tingran
Despite centuries of research , metastatic cancer remains incurable due to resistance to all conventional cancer therapeutics . Alternative strategies leveraging non-proliferative vulnerabilities in cancer are required to overcome cancer recurrence . Ferroptosis is an iron dependent cell death pathway that has shown promising pre-clinical activity in several contexts of therapeutic resistant cancer . However , ferroptosis sensitivity is highly variable across tissue types and cell states , posing a challenge for clinical translation . We describe a convergent phenotype induced by chemotherapy where cells surviving chemotherapy have dysregulated iron homeostasis , regardless of initial cell type or chemotherapy used . Elevated labile iron levels are counteracted by NRF2 signaling , yet the resulting antioxidant programs do not alleviate the labile iron burden . Selectively inhibiting GPX4 leads to uniform susceptibility to ferroptosis in surviving cells , highlighting the common reliance on lipid peroxidation defenses . Cellular iron dysregulation is a vulnerability of chemoresistant cancer cells that can be leveraged by triggering ferroptosis . FAU - Loftus , Luke V
Traditional Chinese medicine has long acknowledged the therapeutic potential of Tetradium ruticarpum ( A . Juss . ) T . G . Hartley together with Coptis chinensis Franch in managing metabolic disorders . However , their combined anti-obesity effects and the underlying mechanisms remain poorly characterized . This study investigates the synergistic anti-obesity effects and mechanisms of a combined berberine and evodiamine treatment ( BBE ) in high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced C57BL/6J mice and 3T3-L1 cells . In vitro , cell viability was evaluated using the Cell Counting Kit-8 ( CCK-8 ) , while lipid accumulation was assessed through Oil Red O staining and triglyceride content determination . Molecular docking simulations performed with AutoDockTools 6 software Vina predicted interactions between BBE and key proteins . The analysis of genes and proteins involved in browning and thermogenesis was conducted using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting . In vivo , HFD-induced mice were assessed for serum lipids profiles , glucose , insulin , adipocytokines , fat tissue morphology ( Hematoxylin and eosin staining ) , mitochondrial activity ( flow cytometry ) , and protein expression ( immunofluorescence ) . Molecular docking analysis revealed strong binding affinities between BBE and key target proteins , including UCP1 , PGC-1alpha , PRDM16 , CIDEA , FGF21 , and FGFR1c . BBE significantly reduced lipid accumulation in 3T3-L1 cells , upregulated the mRNA expression of Prdm16 , Cidea , Ucp1 , and Dio2 , elevated UCP1 and PGC-1alpha protein levels , and activated the FGF21/PGC-1alpha signaling pathway . In HFD-induced mice , BBE administration led to reduced body weight , smaller adipocyte size , increased adipocyte number , and alleviated hepatic steatosis . Furthermore , it lowered serum total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , and levels of triglycerides ( TG ) , while simultaneously increasing concentrations of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) . BBE also improved glucose tolerance , reduced fasting insulin levels , and modulated adipocytokine levels ( reduced leptin , increased adiponectin ) , while promoting browning gene and protein expression . Overall , the combination of berberine and evodiamine mitigates obesity by enhancing browning and activating the FGF21/PGC-1alpha signaling pathway . FAU - Zhang , Huiying
Insects are among the most diverse and abundant organisms on Earth , and their population dynamics are strongly influenced by entomopathogenic fungi . This study examines the role of carbon and nitrogen metabolism in the virulence of the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium rileyi against the migratory locust , Locusta migratoria . The findings demonstrate that the capacity of M . rileyi to utilize different carbon and nitrogen sources is a key factor in its virulence . Specifically , two strains of M . rileyi ( PPDB201006 and SZCY201010 ) exhibited distinct metabolic abilities , with PPDB201006 displaying superior growth and enzyme activities on various carbon and nitrogen sources compared to SZCY These metabolic differences were associated with significant variations in virulence , as PPDB201006 induced higher mortality rates in L . migratoria than SZCY Metabolomics analysis revealed that infection by M . rileyi led to substantial alterations in the hemolymph metabolites of L . migratoria , particularly in organic acids , amino acids , sugars , and lipids . These results emphasize the significance of carbon and nitrogen metabolism in the pathogenicity of entomopathogenic fungi and offer new perspectives for optimizing their application as biological control agents . This study not only improves our understanding of fungal virulence mechanisms but also contributes to the development of more effective and sustainable pest management strategies . FAU - Yao , Yunhao
The unfolded protein response ( UPR ) is a highly orchestrated survival response initiated in cells under endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress . Steroidogenic acute regulatory-related lipid transfer domain 5 ( StarD5 ) is an ER stress-responsive , cholesterol-binding protein under the regulation of IRE Based upon in vitro findings , StarD5 delivers a protective response by translocating ER cholesterol to the plasma membrane ( PM ) and accompanying protective changes in PM fluidity . The study aimed to determine if StarD5 ' s ability to provide in vitro hepatocyte protective responses is translatable to in vivo conditions . ER stress in mouse livers was induced by intraperitoneal injection of tunicamycin ( Tm ) . Adenovirus was used to restore the expression of StarD5 in the livers of StarD5 ( -/- ) mice . Immunoblotting , histological analysis , and lipid measurements were performed . Induction of ER stress led to increased expression of StarD5 and steatosis in the livers of wild-type ( WT ) mice , while in StarD5 ( -/- ) mice , steatosis and apoptosis were more acute compared to WT mice , as evidenced by increased lipid accumulation and cleavage of PARP , respectively . Selectively restoring StarD5 expression to ER-stressed StarD5 ( -/- ) mice blunted the effects of tunicamycin . StarD5 appears to play a critical role in the ER stress survival response through its ability to regulate intracellular cholesterol homeostasis . FAU - Pandak , William M
The success of assisted reproductive technology is contingent upon the growth potential of embryos post-vitrification process . When compared to in vivo embryos , it has been found that the high intracellular lipid accumulation inside the in vitro-derived embryos results in poor survival during vitrification . Based on this finding , the present study assessed the impact of incorporating forskolin and linoleic acid ( FL ) entering in vitro culture ( IVC ) on the embryos ' cryo-survival , lipid content , and viability throughout vitrification . Lipid metabolomics and single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) techniques were used to determine the underlying mechanism that the therapies were mimicking . It was observed that out of 726 identified lipids , 26 were expressed differentially between the control and FL groups , with 12 lipids upregulated and 14 lipids downregulated . These lipids were classified as Triacylglycerol ( TG ) , Diacylglycerol ( DG ) , Phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) , and so on . A total of 1079 DEGs were detected between the FL and control groups , consisting of 644 upregulated genes and 435 downregulated genes . These DEGs were significantly enhanced in the arachidonic acid metabolism , lipolysis , fatty acid metabolism , cAMP signaling pathway , and other critical developmental pathways . Based on the observation , it was concluded that forskolin and linoleic acid decreased the droplet content of embryos by modulating lipid metabolism , thus enhancing the vitrified bovine embryos ' cryo-survival . FAU - Zhang , Peipei
Sodium orthovanadate is a non-selective protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor that can cause several types of kidney injury , including glomerulosclerosis , inflammation , and tubular damage . Cannabis is widely known for its medicinal use , and several studies have demonstrated its anti-diabetic and anti-inflammatory properties . The current study investigated the therapeutic effect of Lebanese cannabis oil extract ( COE ) against sodium orthovanadate-induced nephrotoxicity both in vitro and in vivo . Sprague Dawley male rats were intraperitoneally injected with 10 mg/kg sodium orthovanadate for 10 days followed by 5 mg/kg ; 10 mg/kg ; or 20 mg/kg intraperitoneal injection of cannabis oil extract , starting on day 4 until day The body weight of the rats was monitored during the study , and clinical parameters , including serum urea , creatinine , and electrolytes , as well as kidney and heart pathology , were measured . Conditionally immortalized cultured rat podocytes were exposed to either sodium orthovanadate or selective phosphatase inhibitors , including DUSPi ( DUSP1/6 inhibitor ) and SF1670 ( PTEN inhibitor ) , in the presence or absence of cannabis oil extract . MTS and an in vitro scratch assay were used to assess podocyte cell viability and migration , respectively . Western blot analysis was used to evaluate the phosphorylation levels of AKT and p38 MAPK . Rats injected with sodium orthovanadate displayed a marked reduction in body weight and an increase in serum creatinine and urea in comparison to the control non-treated group . All doses of COE caused a significant decrease in serum urea , with a significant decrease in serum creatinine observed at a dose of 20 mg/kg . Moreover , the COE treatment of rats injected with orthovanadate ( 20 mg/kg ) showed a marked reduction in renal vascular dilatation , scattered foci of acute tubular necrosis , and numerous mitoses in tubular cells compared to the sodium orthovanadate-treated group . The cell viability assay revealed that COE reversed cytotoxicity induced by sodium orthovanadate and specific phosphatase inhibitors ( DUSPi and SF1670 ) in rat podocytes . The in vitro scratch assay showed that COE partially restored the migratory capacity of podocytes incubated with DUSPi and SF Time-course and dose-dependent experiments showed that COE ( 1 mug/mL ) induced a significant increase in phospho- ( S473 ) -AKT , along with a decrease in phospho ( T180 + Y182 ) P38 levels . The current results demonstrated that Lebanese cannabis oil possesses important kidney protective effects against sodium orthovanadate-induced renal injury . FAU - Habchy , Christabel
Tramadol , a widely used analgesic , has recently been explored for its potential anti-cancer effects . However , the antitumor dosage of tramadol is over its current clinical application . Its primary metabolite , O-desmethyltramadol , has greater mu-opioid receptor affinity and stronger pharmacological activity . Hence , we sought to examine whether the cytotoxic effect of O-desmethyltramadol was better than tramadol on breast cancer cells . Our results showed that O-desmethyltramadol significantly reduced cell viability in breast cancer cells , with IC50 values of 2 mug/mL ( MDA-MB-231 ) and 7 mug/mL ( MCF-7 ) , demonstrating over ten-fold greater potency than tramadol . The presence of a mu-opioid receptor antagonist Alvimopan did not alter the cytotoxic effects of tramadol and O-desmethyltramadol , indicating a non-opioid receptor-mediated mechanism . Compared with antitumor activity of tramadol mediated through ER stress , we confirmed that O-desmethyltramadol induced ER stress proteins , including the p-eIF2alpha/eIF2alpha ratio , ATF4 , and CHOP . In MDA-MB-231 cells , O-desmethyltramadol treatment elevated mRNA expression levels of ATF4 , CHAC1 , and DDIT3 by approximately 2-fold . In MCF-7 cells , the induction was even more pronounced , with ATF4 increased 7-fold , CHAC1 12-fold , and DDIT3 9-fold . Beyond the opioid receptor-mediated pathway , we further analyzed the differential functions of O-desmethyltramadol than tramadol using the RNA-seq analysis . The pathway enrichment analyses revealed that O-desmethyltramadol influenced immune and inflammatory pathways , such as TNF and IL-6/JAK/STAT3 signaling in MDA-MB-231 cells , while in MCF-7 cells , it affected metabolic and transcriptional pathways , including mTOR and MAPK signaling . Gene Set Enrichment Analysis further highlighted O-desmethyltramadol ' s role in interferon response and tumor microenvironment modulation . Four upregulated genes and five downregulated genes were modulated by O-desmethyltramadol in MDA-MB-231 and MCF-7 cells . Overall , our findings indicated that O-desmethyltramadol exerted potent anti-cancer effects through multiple non-opioid mechanisms , with distinct response from tramadol depending on breast cancer subtype . These findings not only highlight the therapeutic potential of O-desmethyltramadol as a novel adjunct in breast cancer treatment , but also emphasize the need for further investigation into its safety and clinical applicability in oncology . FAU - Wu , Zih-Syuan
Hypercapnia , the elevation of CO in blood and tissue , is a risk factor for mortality in patients with severe lung disease and pulmonary infections . We previously showed that hypercapnia increases viral replication and mortality in mice infected with influenza A virus ( IAV ) . Elevated CO also augmented cholesterol content and pseudo-SARS-CoV-2 entry in bronchial epithelial cells . Interestingly , cellular cholesterol facilitates IAV uptake , replication , assembly , and egress from cells . Here , we report that hypercapnia increases viral protein expression in airway epithelium of mice infected with IAV . Elevated CO also enhanced IAV adhesion and internalization , viral protein expression , and viral replication in bronchial epithelial cells . Hypercapnia increased the expression and activation of the transcription factor sterol-regulatory element binding protein 2 ( SREBP2 ) , resulting in elevated expression of cholesterol synthesis enzymes , decreased expression of a cholesterol efflux transporter , and augmented cellular cholesterol . Moreover , reducing cellular cholesterol with an SREBP2 inhibitor or statins blocked hypercapnia-induced increases in viral adhesion and internalization , viral protein expression , and IAV replication . Inhibitors of mTOR and Akt also blocked the effect of hypercapnia on viral growth . Our findings suggest that targeting cholesterol synthesis and/or mTOR/Akt signaling may hold promise for reducing susceptibility to influenza infection in patients with advanced lung disease and hypercapnia . FAU - Chen , Fei
Medium-chain fatty acids ( MCFAs ) refer to a mixture of fatty acids typically composed of 6 to 12 carbon atoms . The unique transport and rapid metabolism of MCFAs provide more clinical benefits than other substrates , such as long-chain fatty acids . Although many studies have shown that MCFAs may improve exercise capacity and muscle strength , applications have mainly been limited to low doses . This study explores the effects of high-dose MCFA intake on muscle strength and exercise endurance . Mice were fed high-fat diets containing 30 , 35 , and 40% ( w/w ) MCFAs for 12 weeks , and measurements of grip strength and submaximal endurance exercise capacity were conducted to evaluate muscle function . Results showed that compared to the 30% MCFAs group , the absolute grip strength in the 35 and 40% MCFAs groups significantly increased ; in terms of endurance performance , the 35% MCFAs group showed a significant increase compared to the 40% MCFAs group . These results were mainly achieved by promoting muscle regeneration and differentiation and inhibiting the expression of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway . This study demonstrates that moderately increasing MCFA intake can improve the effects of obesity-induced muscle atrophy . However , excessive intake may reduce the impact of improvement . FAU - Zhang , Ziwei
Comparative studies using lysophosphatidic acid ( LPA ) and the synthetic agonist , oleoyl-methoxy glycerophosphothionate ( OMPT ) , in cells expressing the LPA receptor revealed differences in the action of these agents . The possibility that more than one recognition cavity might exist for these ligands in the LPA receptor was considered . We performed agonist docking studies exploring the whole protein to obtain tridimensional details of the ligand-receptor interaction . Functional in cellulo experiments using mutants were also executed . Our work includes blind docking using the unrefined and refined proteins subjected to hot spot predictions . Distinct ligand protonation ( charge -1 and -2 ) states were evaluated . One LPA recognition cavity is located near the lower surface of the receptor close to the cytoplasm ( Lower Cavity ) . OMPT displayed an affinity for an additional identification cavity detected in the transmembrane and extracellular regions ( Upper Cavity ) . Docking targeted to Trp102 favored binding of both ligands in the transmembrane domain near the extracellular areas ( Upper Cavity ) , but the associating amino acids were not identical due to close sub-cavities . A receptor model was generated using AlphaFold3 , which properly identified the transmembrane regions of the sequence and co-modeled the lipid environment accordingly . These two models independently generated ( with and without the membrane ) and adopted essentially the same conformation , validating the data obtained . A DeepSite analysis of the model predicted two main binding pockets , providing additional confidence in the predicted ligand-binding regions and support for the relevance of the docking-based interaction models . In addition , mutagenesis was performed of the amino acids of the two detected cavities . In the in cellulo studies , LPA action was much less affected by the distinct mutations than that of OMPT ( which was almost abolished ) . Therefore , docking and functional data indicate the presence of distinct agonist binding cavities in the LPA receptor . FAU - Solis , K Helivier
The gut microbiome plays a vital role in human health , functioning as a metabolic organ that influences nutrient absorption and overall well-being . With growing evidence that dietary interventions can modulate the microbiome and improve health , this review examines whether healthcare systems should prioritize personalized microbiome-targeted therapies , such as probiotics , prebiotics , and microbiota transplants , over traditional pharmaceutical treatments for chronic diseases like obesity , diabetes , cardiovascular risk , and inflammatory conditions . A systematic review using Web of Science and Scopus databases was conducted , followed by a scientometric analysis . Key metabolic pathways , such as dietary fiber fermentation and short-chain fatty acid production , were explored , focusing on their impact on lipid and glucose metabolism . The interactions between microbial metabolites and the immune system were also investigated . Dietary interventions , including increased fiber and probiotic intake , show potential for addressing dysbiosis linked to conditions , such as type 2 diabetes , obesity , and autoimmune diseases . The review emphasizes the need to incorporate microbiome modulation strategies into clinical practice and research , calling for a multidisciplinary approach that integrates nutrition , microbiology , and biochemistry to better understand the gut microbiome ' s complex role in health . FAU - Valencia , Sandra
ADF/cofilins form a family of small , widely expressed actin-binding proteins , regulating actin dynamics in various cellular and physiological processes in all eukaryotes , from yeasts to animals . Changes in the expression of the ADF/cofilin family proteins have been demonstrated under various pathological conditions . The well-established role of cofilin in migration , invasion , epithelial-mesenchymal transition , apoptosis , resistance to radiotherapy and chemotherapy , immune escape , and transcriptional dysregulation in malignant tumors is primarily attributed to its actin-modifying activity . Moreover , drugs targeting this function of cofilin have been developed for cancer treatment . However , its multilevel regulation , highly diverse effects across various pathological conditions , and conflicting data on the functional consequences of altered cofilin expression have prompted us to explore additional roles of cofilin-beyond actin modulation-particularly its involvement in lipid metabolism and mitochondrial homeostasis . Here , we review recent data on the expression of ADF/cofilin family proteins in various pathologies , account for the mutations and post-translational modifications of these proteins and their functional consequences , dwell on the role of K63-type ubiquitination of cofilin for its involvement in lipid metabolism and mitochondrial homeostasis , more specifically , a process of mitochondrial division or mitofission , point out conflicting data in cofilin research , and describe prospects for future studies of cofilin functions . FAU - Kovaleva , Tatiana
The etiopathogenesis and treatment response of sensitive skin remain poorly understood . We used 4-tert-butylcyclohexanol ( 4-TBLH ) and 1% pimecrolimus ointment to treat sensitive skin in mice models constructed using tape stripping , propylene glycol , and capsaicin . This study aimed to further investigate the sensitivity and responsiveness of this sensitive mouse skin model . Sensitivity and responsiveness were assessed by measuring transepidermal water loss ( TEWL ) , skin hydration , skin flakes , vascular dilatation , itching , stinging , and histological changes , including mast cell , lymphocyte , and granulocyte infiltration , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) expression , and transient receptor potential vanilloid 1 receptor ( TRPV1 ) expression . The application of 4-TBLH and pimecrolimus revealed distinct responses in skin sensitivity indicators , including TEWL , capillary dilation , and mass cell activity , depending on the treatment timing and substance used . The prophylactic and therapeutic applications of 4-TBLH revealed distinct responses in skin sensitivity indicators , including skin flakes , TEWL , itching , stinging , epidermal thickness , mast cell activity , TNF-alpha , and TRPV1 expression . The prophylactic and therapeutic applications of pimecrolimus ointment revealed distinct responses in skin sensitivity indicators , including skin flakes , skin water content , itching , epidermal thickness , mast cell activity , CD45 , CD11b , TNF-alpha , and TRPV1 expression . The mouse sensitive skin model demonstrates robust sensitivity and responsiveness to different treatment factors , and the model can be applied to the development of prophylactic and therapeutic medications for sensitive skin . FAU - Tang , Xueting
High-fat diets ( HFDs ) have been found to compromise male fertility , with cholesterol dysregulation being a key factor . Sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 ( SREBP2 ) is a crucial transcription factor that regulates cholesterol biosynthesis and uptake , playing an essential role in maintaining cholesterol homeostasis in the testes . This study investigated the dynamics of SREBP2 and cholesterol levels during rabbit spermatogenesis under HFD conditions . Our findings reveal that SREBP2 expression fluctuates throughout the seminiferous epithelium cycle . However , HFDs induce stage-specific disruptions in cholesterol balance , leading to sperm with increased membrane cholesterol , a reduced sperm count in semen analysis , impaired motility , abnormal morphology , and decreased functionality . In the control group , SREBP2 expression patterns underscored its critical role in normal spermatogenesis . Interestingly , supplementation with extra virgin olive oil ( EVOO ) reversed the negative effects of HFD , normalizing SREBP2 expression and cholesterol content , which improved sperm quality . These findings emphasize the importance of stage-specific analysis in understanding how dietary fat impacts male fertility and suggest that EVOO may serve as a potential nutritional intervention to protect reproductive health . FAU - Avena , Maria Virginia
Tissue culture-based rapid propagation is critical for genetic improvement and virus-free production of strawberries ( Fragaria x ananassa ) . This study evaluated the optimal concentration of thidiazuron ( TDZ ) for shoot multiplication and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms . Strawberry explants were treated with TDZ at concentrations of 0 , 025 , 05 , 1 , and 4 mg . L ( -1 ) in vitro , and growth , physiological changes , and transcriptomic profiles were analyzed after four weeks . The results identified 05 mg . L ( -1 ) TDZ as the most effective concentration for shoot proliferation , yielding a significant increase in leaf number . However , TDZ application inhibited plant height and reduced chlorophyll , carotenoid , and soluble sugar contents . Physiological analyses revealed that TDZ decreased endogenous cytokinin levels while elevating auxin concentrations . Transcriptomic analysis showed that TDZ suppressed cytokinin biosynthesis and up-regulated cytokinin oxidase expression , thereby modulating hormone homeostasis . Additionally , TDZ enhanced the cytokinin signaling pathway , which is crucial for cell division and shoot initiation , and influenced auxin , gibberellin , and brassinosteroid pathways to regulate differentiation . These findings suggest that TDZ promotes strawberry shoot multiplication primarily through hormone signal transduction , providing insights for optimizing tissue culture protocols . FAU - Wang , Fang
Empagliflozin ( EMPA ) -a sodium-glucose cotransporter type 2 inhibitor-reduces endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress , oxidative stress , and inflammation during metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) progression . However , the direct effects of EMPA on hepatic lipid metabolism and oxidative stress are unclear . Through the current study , we seek to explore the effects of EMPA on oxidative stress and related mechanisms in MASLD . To this end , MASLD was induced in C57BL/6J mice using a high-fat diet ( HFD ) ; nuclear respiratory factor 1 ( NRF1 ) was downregulated via viral transduction ( AAV8-shNrf1 ) . Glucose homeostasis and liver histology were assessed , and oxidative stress and inflammation were measured . HFD-fed mice-derived liver tissue samples exhibited more lipid droplets , higher triglyceride levels , and elevated oxidative and ER stress than chow diet ( CD ) -fed mice . EMPA attenuated HFD-induced liver oxidative and ER stress . Additionally , the HFD significantly decreased NRF1 and Sirtuin ( SIRT ) 7 expression compared with CD , which was rescued by EMPA treatment . However , these results did not affect insulin resistance or lipid synthesis-related changes upon EMPA treatment in the Nrf1-knockdown mice . Furthermore , EMPA alleviated HFD-induced hepatic steatosis and oxidative stress ; however , these effects were lost in Nrf1-knockdown mice . Collectively , the results of this study suggest that EMPA ameliorates MASLD by reducing steatosis and attenuating oxidative stress via NRF FAU - Heo , Yu Jung
Arachidonic acid levels are elevated in the colonic mucosa of patients with inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) . Fecal metabolites are emerging as valuable diagnostic tools for IBD . This study aimed to investigate associations between 31 fecal fatty acids , including arachidonic acid , to identify potential correlations with disease severity . Among the 31 fatty acids analyzed in feces , dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid , arachidonic acid , and adrenic acid were significantly increased in patients with IBD compared to controls . In contrast , levels of linoleic acid and gamma-linolenic acid , the precursors of arachidonic acid , were similar between both groups . No significant differences in fatty acid levels were observed between patients with Crohn ' s disease and ulcerative colitis . Arachidonic acid and adrenic acid levels positively correlated with fecal calprotectin , a clinically established marker of IBD severity , but showed no association with stool consistency or the Gastrointestinal Symptom Rating Scale . This suggests that these fatty acids are linked to disease severity rather than disease-related symptoms . Current IBD-specific medications had no significant impact on the fecal levels of any of the 31 fatty acids . In summary , this study demonstrates elevated fecal levels of dihomo-gamma-linolenic acid , arachidonic acid , and adrenic acid in IBD patients . Normal levels of precursor fatty acids suggest that impaired downstream metabolism may contribute to the accumulation of these n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids . FAU - Huss , Muriel
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) is a prevalent metabolic disorder caused by impaired insulin secretion from pancreatic beta-cells and insulin resistance in target tissues . Genome-wide association studies have identified over 50 genetic variants linked to T2DM , including polymorphisms associated with the disease . This study investigates the impact of the FADS1 ( rs174547 ) polymorphism in T2DM patients compared to healthy controls and examines serum levels of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids , as well as D5D and D6D enzyme levels and activity . This case-control study included 120 participants : 60 newly diagnosed T2DM patients and 60 apparently healthy controls matched for age , sex , and other sociodemographic factors . Polyunsaturated fatty acid ( PUFA ) levels and desaturase enzyme activities in the n-3 and n-6 pathways were assessed using ELISA and gas chromatography . FADS1 gene polymorphisms were analyzed via Sanger sequencing . Genotype and allele frequencies of FADS1 ( rs174547 ) differed significantly between groups , with higher frequencies of C-containing alleles in T2DM patients . Multivariate analysis revealed a significant association between the C-allele genotype and increased T2DM risk , independent of sociodemographic variables , lipid profile , and inflammatory markers . In conclusion ; reduced serum levels of omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids in T2DM were associated with decreased desaturase enzyme activity . The FADS1 ( rs174547 ) polymorphism is significantly associated with T2DM risk , with the minor allele linked to lower desaturase activity . FAU - Jarullah , Hayder Huwais
Ziziphi Spinosae Semen saponins ( ZSSS ) show sedative-hypnotic activity but have very low bioavailability , potentially due to their conversion into bioactive metabolites by gut microbiota . In this study , the biotransformation of ZSSS by gut microbiota from healthy humans and patients with insomnia in vitro was analyzed . A total of 21 prototype compounds and 49 metabolites were identified using UHPLC-Q-Orbitrap-MS . Deglycosylation , deoxygenation , dehydration , and deacylation were detected in both healthy individuals and insomniacs . However , oxidation and hydrogenation were uniquely observed in insomniacs . ZSSS can enhance beneficial bacteria , such as Veillonella , Dialister , and Bacteroides . ZSSS can promote the synthesis of short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , especially acetic acid , propionic acid , and butyric acid . Furthermore , it was found that the sedative-hypnotic activity of ZSSS was enhanced after biotransformation , as determined by a sodium pentobarbital-induced sleeping test ( SPST ) , open-field behavior test ( OFBT ) , and molecular docking experiment ( MDE ) . These results collectively offer valuable insight into the mechanism of action of ZSSS . FAU - Cui , Xiaofang
Vitamin D and its metabolites exert anti-cancer properties in various cancers ; however , their effects on cervical cancer remain largely unexplored . To investigate this gap , we exposed HeLa adenocarcinoma cervical cells to physiological and the growth inhibition 20% ( GI20 ) concentration of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol , the precursor hormone of active 1 , 25-dihydroxycholecalciferol . We then assessed its impact on cell health , and the expression of the genes and proteins involved in the activation and catabolism of vitamin D at the cellular level by autocrine vitamin D metabolism via the vitamin D metabolizing system ( VDMS ) . Cell health was evaluated by crystal violet and alamarBlue assays , while cell cycle progression and apoptotic cell death markers were assessed by flow cytometry . Gross morphology and ultrastructure were observed using brightfield microscopy and transmission electron microscopy . Gene and protein analyses of the autocrine VDMS were assessed using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and Western blot , respectively . Our findings reveal that 25 ( OH ) D inhibits cell growth and induces apoptosis in HeLa cervical cells in a dose-dependent manner through the autocrine upregulation of CYP27B1 and VDR . These autocrine effects most likely promote the bioactivation of 25 ( OH ) D and intracellular signaling of pro-apoptotic genomic pathways by liganded VDR . Furthermore , the upregulation of CYP24A1 at GI20 treatment likely increases the catabolism of 25 ( OH ) D and 1 , 25 ( OH ) D ( 3 , ) and therefore may mitigate the anti-cancer action of the high-treatment dose . In summary , 25 ( OH ) D holds immense potential as a complementary therapeutic treatment for cervical cancer . FAU - Zhou , Esther
During the breeding process of Macrobrachium rosenbergii , a male-to-female ratio of 1 : 3 or higher is typically adopted , so as a result , the quality of the male broodstock significantly influences the quality of the offspring . We observed that overused males exhibited notable changes in body color , particularly in the tail fan region , which turned orange or red due to the excessive accumulation of astaxanthin in the muscles and exoskeleton . Frequent mating also led to a significant decrease in male body weight , with histological analysis revealing disorganized muscle fiber patterns and increased tissue damage . To investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying these physiological changes , we performed transcriptomic and metabolomic analyses of muscle tissues . A total of 1069 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) , 540 differentially expressed proteins ( DEPs ) , and 385 differentially expressed metabolites ( DEMs ) were identified . Pathway analysis revealed that the DEGs were significantly enriched in pathways related to energy metabolism and degenerative diseases , while the DEMs were notably associated with cancer metabolism , signal transduction , substance transport , energy metabolism , nucleic acid metabolism , neurotransmission , immune response , and metabolic diseases . Proteome analysis showed that proteins and lipids were involved in muscle energy supply . These findings suggest that male M . rosenbergii upregulate energy metabolism in muscles to cope with frequent mating stress , but this adaptation leads to physiological damage . This study provides valuable insights for optimizing male broodstock selection and mating frequency in M . rosenbergii breeding practices . FAU - Fan , Yunpeng
The endocannabinoid system ( ECS ) is a complex endocrine network involved in maintaining body homeostasis . It comprises endocannabinoids , their receptors ( CB1 and CB2 ) , and the enzymes and transporters responsible for their synthesis and degradation . While the ECS ' s role in the nervous system is well established , its functions in other organs and peripheral tissues , including the cardiovascular , gastrointestinal , and reproductive systems , remain incompletely understood . With the increasing use of marijuana , particularly among individuals of reproductive age , concerns have emerged regarding its potential impact on male and female fertility . Phytocannabinoids ( 9tethrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol ) , as well as synthetic cannabimimetic drugs , interact with the ECS , influencing sperm and oocyte physiology and reproductive outcomes . Recent research has identified ECS-related biomarkers with potential applications in infertility diagnosis , particularly in assessing male fertility with greater precision . Furthermore , emerging evidence suggests that ECS signaling pathways are involved in epigenetic modifications , which may influence health maintenance , disease susceptibility , and transgenerational inheritance patterns . These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of ECS modulation in reproductive disorders and broader medical applications . This narrative review aims to elucidate the role of the ECS in human reproduction , with a particular focus on the influence of endocannabinoids on gametogenesis . While current research underscores the critical role of the ECS in fertility , further investigations are needed to fully elucidate its underlying mechanisms and its broader implications for reproductive health and therapeutic interventions . FAU - Montik , Nina
Neurogenesis is considered the most robust form of plasticity in the adult brain . To better decipher this process , we evaluated the potential crosstalk of Kisspeptin and Endocannabinoid Systems ( KPS and ECS , respectively ) on hippocampal neurogenesis . Male adolescent rats were exposed to kisspeptin-10 ( KP10 ) and the endocannabinoid anandamide ( AEA ) administered alone or in combination with the type 1 cannabinoid receptor ( CB1R ) antagonist SR141716A . The expression of Kiss1 and Kisspeptin receptor ( Kiss1R ) has been characterized for the first time in rat hippocampus together with the expression of the CB1R and the Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 1 ion channel receptor ( TRPV1 ) . Results show that both systems inhibit neurogenesis by reducing the extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( ERK ) signaling . Despite little differences in the expression of Kiss1R and CB1R , TRPV1 is enhanced by both KP10 and AEA treatments , suggesting TRPV1 as a common thread . KP10 administration reduces CB1R expression in the dentate gyrus , while AEA does not . KPS , unlike ECS , promotes the expression of estrogen receptor alpha ( ER-alpha ) and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase ( GAPDH ) , also upregulating sirtuin 1 ( SIRT1 ) , brain-derived-neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) , and c-Jun . These findings suggest that the interaction between ECS and KPS could be involved in the fine-tuning of neurogenesis , highlighting a novel role for KPS . FAU - Marino , Marianna
A well-regulated metabolism is crucial for optimal oocyte development and embryonic health . However , the metabolic framework governing oocyte maturation remains poorly understood . Using bovine oocytes as a model , we examined metabolomic and transcriptomic alterations during the transition from the germinal vesicle ( GV ) to the metaphase II ( MII ) stage . Our findings reveal distinct metabolic shifts , including suppressed beta-oxidation combined with the accumulation of long-chain fatty acids ( LCFAs ) . Notably , progesterone emerged as a key regulator of meiotic resumption through its influence on cAMP levels . We also observed enhanced glycolysis , moderate activation of the citric acid cycle ( TCA cycle ) , and suppression of oxidative phosphorylation ( OXPHOS ) , alongside reduced urea cycle flux and shifts in amino acid metabolism favoring glutamate synthesis . Intriguingly , discrepancies between metabolic and transcriptional activities in pathways such as the TCA cycle and nucleotide metabolism suggest asynchronous regulation . These findings provide a comprehensive multi-omics resource , advancing our understanding of the dynamic metabolic and transcriptional landscape during bovine oocyte maturation . FAU - Kassim , Yassin
Vitamin D has been shown to improve immunity as well as vascular function . We investigated the effect of cholecalciferol on T-cell phenotype in cultured peripheral blood mononuclear cells ( PBMCs ) from twenty vitamin D-deficient , non-diabetic chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) subjects . We also studied vitamin D effects on endothelial and vascular function markers in human aortic endothelial cells ( HAECs ) and in human aortic smooth muscle cells ( HASMCs ) , respectively . We studied endothelial nitric oxide synthase ( eNOS ) , mitogen-activated protein kinase 38 ( p38 Map kinase ) , protein kinase B ( Akt ) , and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase ( NADPH oxidase ) in HAECs and alpha-smooth muscle actin ( alpha-SMA ) , smooth muscle calponin ( SM-Calponin ) , smooth muscle myosin heavy chain ( SM-MHC ) , and calcium-sensing receptor ( CaSR ) in HASMCs . Vitamin D receptors ( VDRs ) and CYP27B1 were studied in both cell types . In cultured PBMCs isolated from CKD subjects , the percentage of T helper 1 ( TH1 ) cells significantly decreased while that of T helper 2 ( TH2 ) cells increased after cholecalciferol treatment . No significant change in intracellular and surface markers of T helper 17 ( TH17 ) and T regulatory ( Treg ) cells was observed . In vitro treatment of HASMCs and HAECs with cholecalciferol led to significant and favorable alterations in mRNA expression of markers of vascular smooth muscle cells , i . e . , alpha-SMA , SM-Calponin , and SM-MHC . Regarding endothelial cell markers , mRNA encoding eNOS , p38 Map kinase , protein kinase B ( Akt ) , NADPH oxidase , VDR , and CYP27B1 were also significantly changed . Finally , the expression levels of the following proteins were notably altered : NADPH oxidase and protein kinase B ( Akt ) ( in HAECs ) ; SM-MHC and SM-Calponin ( in HASMCs ) . In vitro treatment of PBMCs with cholecalciferol led to a favorable change in T-cell population , decreasing TH1 and increasing TH2 cell percentage , along with beneficial alterations in mRNA expression of HASMCs and HAECs ' cell markers . This study provides evidence that cholecalciferol can influence immune and vascular function in CKD . FAU - Kamboj , Kajal
Neurodegenerative diseases involve oxidative stress and enzyme dysregulation , necessitating novel neuroprotective agents . This study evaluates the neuroprotective and antioxidant potential of seven pyrrole-based compounds with predicted radical scavenging activity and inhibitory effects on monoamine oxidase B ( MAO-B ) and acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) . The compounds were tested in vitro using SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells and subcellular rat brain fractions , including synaptosomes , mitochondria , and microsomes . Neuroprotective and antioxidant effects were assessed in oxidative stress models , including HO-induced stress in SH-SY5Y cells , 6-hydroxydopamine toxicity in synaptosomes , tert-butyl hydroperoxide-induced stress in mitochondria , and non-enzyme lipid peroxidation in microsomes . In silico screening for lipophilicity , hydrogen bonding , total polar surface area ( TPSA ) , and ionization properties , was performed to evaluate bioavailability . All compounds exhibited a weak neurotoxic effect on the subcellular fractions at a concentration of 100 microM . However , in oxidative stress models , they demonstrated significant neuroprotective and antioxidant effects at 100 microM . In SH-SY5Y cells , compounds 7 , 9 , 12 , 14 , and 15 exhibited low toxicity and strong protective effects at concentrations as low as 1 microM . In silico analysis prioritized compounds 1 , 7 , 9 , 12 , and 14 for further development based on their favorable bioavailability . The tested pyrrole-based compounds exhibit promising neuroprotective and antioxidant properties , with several candidates showing potential for further development based on both in vitro efficacy and predicted oral bioavailability . FAU - Stefanova , Denitsa
In this study , the LBD ( Lateral Organ Boundaries Domain ) gene family , a group of plant-specific transcription factors critical for plant growth and development as well as metabolic regulation , was comprehensively characterized in rice . We identified 36 LBD genes using multi-source genomic data and systematically classified them into Class I ( 31 genes ) and Class II ( 5 genes ) . Analysis of their physicochemical properties revealed significant variations in amino acid length , molecular weight , isoelectric points , and hydropathicity . Motif analysis identified conserved LOB domains and other motifs potentially linked to functional diversity . Cis-acting element analysis indicated the involvement of these genes in various biological processes , including light response , hormone signaling , and stress response . Expression profiling demonstrated tissue-specific expression patterns , with several genes , such as XM_2 , XM_2 , and XM_2 , showing relatively high expression in rice roots , implying their important role in root development . Transcriptome data further supported the involvement of specific genes in responses to phytohormones such as jasmonic acid ( JA ) and abscisic acid ( ABA ) , as well as environmental stresses like cold and drought . Notably , XM_2 , XM_2 , and XM_2 may contribute to the regulation of rice environmental adaptability by mediating ABA and JA signaling pathways , respectively . In conclusion , this study identified members of the LBD gene family through the screening of two rice gene databases , and performed a comprehensive analysis of their physicochemical properties , evolutionary relationships , and expression profiles under various conditions . These findings provided valuable insights for further functional studies of LBD genes . Moreover , this study provides a foundation for targeting LBD genes to enhance stress resilience ( e . g . , drought/cold tolerance ) and root architecture optimization . The LBD gene family possesses dual values in both stress resistance regulation and developmental optimization . The construction of its multidimensional functional map lays the theoretical and resource foundation for the precise design of high-yield and stress-resistant varieties . FAU - Sun , Shang
Mushrooms are highly perishable , with a shelf life of up to three days . Considering their richness in nutrients and unique taste and aroma , extending their shelf-life presents a valuable field of exploration . Essential oil fumigation , already studied in plants , could effectively preserve mushroom quality by slowing the loss of nutrients . This study focused on the fumigation of two wild mushroom species , Boletus edulis and Imleria badia , as well as one cultivated species , namely , Agaricus bisporus , treated with Foeniculum vulgare ( fennel ) and Picea abies ( spruce ) essential oils . The fumigated mushrooms were stored for 4 days under non-optimal conditions and analysed for their content of free sugars and sugar alcohols , total FFA , composition of all fatty acids , vitamins , and ergosterol . The results were analysed using a linear model with three-way variable interactions , ANOVA type III , and multivariate PCA . The key findings indicated that spruce and fennel essential oil fumigation assured a high content of vitamin C ( 40 and 78 mg/100 g d . w . ) and ergosterol ( 265 and 257 g/100 g d . w . ) in B . edulis and a high content of vitamin D ( 94 and 55 microg/100 g d . w . ) in A . bisporus . The results demonstrated that treating mushrooms with essential oils can effectively modulate the nutritional value loss . FAU - Grzyb , Malgorzata
Vitamin E deficiency ( VED ) represents a common micronutrient deficiency in dairy cows ( DCs ) , leading to severe degenerative diseases , oxidative stress , immune dysfunction , and various health issues , ultimately causing significant economic losses for the global dairy sector . Accordingly , our objective was to explore the metabolic features of VED-afflicted cows by combining the untargeted gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry ( GC-TOF-MS ) and targeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) to identify effective serum VED biomarkers . Untargeted GC-TOF-MS analysis identified 31 differential metabolites ( DMs ) : 20 were overexpressed and 11 were suppressed in the VED group compared to the healthy control group . These DMs were enriched in six major metabolic pathways : glycine , serine , and threonine ; alanine , aspartate , and glutamate ; cysteine and methionine ; tyrosine ; primary bile acid biosynthesis ; and nitrogen metabolisms . These outcomes show that VED significantly disrupts amino acid/lipid/energy metabolism pathways in DCs . Further targeted LC-MS quantification revealed significant alterations in key metabolites , including increased levels of norepinephrine , glycine , cysteine , and L-glutamine , as well as a significant reduction in cholesterol concentrations . Binary logistic regression analysis identified norepinephrine and cholesterol as strong candidate biomarkers for VED . Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis established outstanding diagnostic accuracy for norepinephrine and cholesterol ( for both p < 001 , area under the curve = 980 and 990 , correspondingly ) , with sensitivities and specificities of 90% and 100% , respectively . In conclusion , this study integrates untargeted and targeted metabolomics approaches to reveal VED-caused metabolic disruptions in DCs , particularly in amino acid/lipid/energy metabolism pathways . Norepinephrine and cholesterol were identified as highly accurate serum VED biomarkers with excellent diagnostic performance . Early detection and timely intervention using these biomarkers could promote disease treatment and cow health , as well as productivity , and decrease economic losses . FAU - Song , Yuxi
Trehalose , a disaccharide consisting of two D-glucose molecules , is present in a variety of organisms , including bacteria , yeast , fungi , insects , and plants . In plants , it functions as a source of energy and carbon , and in yeast and plants , it serves as a signaling molecule , influencing metabolic pathways and growth regulation . Additionally , it plays a role in protecting proteins and cell membranes from stress-induced damage . This study aims to assess the optimal level of trehalose supplementation in the diets of layer hens aged 34 to 49 weeks , addressing the limited existing literature on its effects on productivity . Experimental diets , designed in accordance with nutritional recommendations , were formulated to contain six different levels of trehalose ( 0 , 05 , 10 , 30 , 60 , and 00% ) . The study was conducted over five 21-day periods , during which various performance parameters were evaluated . The results indicated that trehalose supplementation at levels of 05% , 10% , and 30% led to increased feed intake ( FI ) compared to the 00% level ( p < 05 ) . Furthermore , the highest trehalose level ( 00% ) significantly reduced the feed conversion ratio by egg mass ( FCRem ) compared to both the control group and the other supplementation levels ; however , the feed conversion ratio by dry matter ( FCRDz ) remained consistent across all treatments . The levels of 05% , 10% , and 30% exhibited superior FCREm and FCRDz compared to the 00% level . Egg weight ( EW ) was higher in the trehalose-supplemented groups compared to the control group . Additionally , the 00% trehalose treatment was found to be the most effective in terms of relative weights of shells ( RWS ) , and egg mass ( EM ) was higher at all trehalose levels compared to the control group . The antioxidant status , as measured by malondialdehyde ( MDA ) levels , indicated that supplementation with 30% and 60% trehalose had a protective effect against oxidative stress , although the 00% level resulted in increased MDA levels . Total weight ( TW ) was highest in the 30% treatment group , and bone strength ( BS ) improved in the groups supplemented with 10% and 00% trehalose . Other parameters , including lipid content ( L ) , dry matter ( DM ) , phosphorus ( P ) , and calcium ( Ca ) , did not show any significant differences among the treatment groups . In conclusion , supplementation with 00% trehalose enhances feed efficiency , egg weight , and quality , with minimal impact on lipid peroxidation , while potentially providing benefits for gut health and egg quality . FAU - Costa , Fernando Perazzo
Astaxanthin plays a vital role in pigmentation , immune function , reproduction , and antioxidation in aquatic species . To clarify the molecular mechanism of astaxanthin utilization in Exopalaemon carinicauda ( E . carinicauda ) , we conducted a comparative transcriptome analysis on the intestine , hepatopancreas , and muscle of E . carinicauda , fed with an astaxanthin diet and a normal diet . A total of 144 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified in three tissues between the two groups . Genes related to absorption and transport , such as LDLR and the vitellogenin receptor , were upregulated in the intestine after astaxanthin supplementation , while the ileal sodium/bile acid cotransporter-like gene was downregulated . In the hepatopancreas , genes involved in lipid storage and degradation were significantly altered at the transcriptional level , including Kruppel 1-like , ACSBG2 , delta-sterol 5-desaturase-like , and PNLIPRP In the muscle , the expression of the FABP gene was significantly upregulated , while several actin and troponin genes were significantly downregulated . Furthermore , GSEA analysis on the transcriptomes of three tissues revealed that astaxanthin supplementation influenced the expression of genes related to antioxidation and growth , indicating that astaxanthin may have a positive impact on the growth , development , and resistance of organisms . The data from this research provide valuable insights into elucidating the molecular mechanisms underlying astaxanthin absorption and metabolism and also offer guidance for the application of astaxanthin in the aquaculture of economically important crustaceans . FAU - Han , Yumin
Intramuscular fat ( IMF ) content in beef cattle is a critical determinant of beef meat quality , as it positively influences juiciness , tenderness , and palatability . In China , the crossbreeding of Wagyu and Angus is a prevalent method for achieving a better marbling level . However , the molecular mechanisms governing IMF regulation in these crossbreeds remain poorly understood . To elucidate the mechanism of IMF deposition in these crossbred cattle , we conducted a comparative transcriptomic analysis of longissimus dorsi muscles and livers from cattle with divergent IMF content . RNA-seq revealed 940 and 429 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) in the liver and muscle , respectively , with 60 genes co-differentially expressed ( co-DEGs ) in both tissues . Functional enrichment highlighted lipid metabolism pathways including fatty acid beta-oxidation , PPAR signaling , and glycerolipid metabolism . A total of eleven genes including ACAA2 , ACADL , ACOX2 , CPT1B , CPT2 , LPL , SLC27A1 , ACAT1 , GK , ACOX3 , and ACSM5 , were screened as key candidate genes for IMF deposition . A " liver-muscle " regulatory network of IMF deposition was built to illustrate the tissues ' interaction . The reliability of the transcriptomic data was verified by quantitative reverse real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR ) . Our findings provide novel molecular markers for increasing the IMF content and accelerating the genetic improvement of beef quality traits in crossbred cattle . FAU - Wang , Siwei
Hubei indigenous cattle have adapted to diverse environmental conditions , exhibiting unique genetic traits associated with both economic and adaptive characteristics . Understanding their adaptive selection offers insight into their evolutionary history and genetic enhancements . In this study , we analyzed whole-genome sequencing ( WGS ) data from five Hubei indigenous cattle breeds to identify selection signals . Selective sweep analysis revealed the candidate genes ( USH2A , TMTC2 , ABCC12 , and SUGT1 ) associated with sensory perception , backfat thickness , reproduction , and immune function . The further integration of cis-regulatory elements ( CREs ) and expression quantitative trait loci ( eQTL ) highlighted regulatory variants , influencing adaptive traits . Notably , positively selected genes such as RPS6KA2 , CRLS1 , MGST3 , GPCPD1 , and LDLRAP1 were associated with lipid metabolism , meat quality , and reproductive traits , influencing aldehyde volatile organic compounds ( VOCs ) and fat deposition . These findings highlight the understanding of the genetic basis of adaptation and production traits in Hubei indigenous cattle and provide valuable insights for their conservation and potential breeding strategies . FAU - Shi , Liangyu
Chinese native pig breeds exhibit unique advantages over Western pig breeds , but the specific lipid metabolism mechanisms remain unclear . The phenotypic characteristics of Mashen ( MS ) pigs and Duroc x ( Landrace x Yorkshire ) ( DLY ) pigs are studied . The results show that MS pigs exhibit higher intramuscular fat ( IMF ) content . The area of adipocytes of MS pigs is significantly greater than that in DLY pigs ( p < 01 ) . Lipidomics analysis reveals distinct profiles in the upper layer of backfat ( ULB ) , leaf lard ( LL ) , greater omentum ( GOM ) , and IMF , with MS pigs showing higher polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) in ULB , LL , and GOM . Key differential lipids identified in the two pig breeds include the following triglycerides ( TGs ) and phosphatidylcholines ( PC ) : TG ( 16 : 1_18 : 1_18 : 3 ) , TG ( 18 : 1_18 : 2_18 : 3 ) , TG ( 18 : 3_18 : 2_18 : 2 ) , PC ( 18 : 0_18 : 1 ) , and PC ( 18 : 0_18 : 2 ) . Weighted gene co-expression network analysis ( WGCNA ) reveals lipid molecules associated with serum biochemical indices . Transcriptomics analysis highlights 1944 differentially expressed genes between the MS-ULB and DLY-ULB . Notably , multiple genes from the cytochrome P450 family ( CYP2E1 , CYP4A24 , CYP2J2 ) , along with PLA2G2D , PLA2G4A , and multiple PCs , are associated with the metabolism of arachidonic acids and linoleic acids . PLA2G2D and PLA2G4A are also involved in the metabolism of alpha-linolenic acids . This comprehensive analysis provides essential information for breeding strategies and meat quality improvement . FAU - Shi , Mingyue
The sustainable growth of finfish farming relies heavily on reducing the high ecological footprint of sourcing and producing fish feeds that accounts for almost 50% of the total ecological footprint of finfish farming . Sustainable alternatives to fishmeal often pose challenges due to the presence of antinutritional factors and nutrient imbalances that impair fish health and growth . Screening for alternative nutrient sources and adapting to global commodity fluctuations requires modern tools that can predict the physiological responses of fish early and reliably . The present study explores for the first time the potential of fish red blood cell ( RBC ) transcriptome as a minimally invasive biomarker of physiological responses in gilthead seabream ( Sparus aurata ) fed either a fishmeal-based ( FM ) or a plant-protein-based ( PP ) diet . Blood samples were collected at multiple time points ( 15 , 20 , and 30 days post-diet initiation ) from genetically diverse full-sib families reared under commercial conditions , integrating transcriptomic analysis with long-term growth assessments . Differential gene expression analysis revealed significant dietary effects on oxidative phosphorylation , ribosomal capacity , and lipid metabolism pathways , highlighting metabolic plasticity and cellular adaptations to plant-based feeds . The downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation genes suggests a metabolic shift in response to altered nutrient composition , while ribosomal pathway modulation indicates potential constraints on protein synthesis . These transcriptomic shifts , conserved across two independent experiments , reinforce the utility of RBCs as a real-time indicator of fish physiological status , offering a tool for monitoring dietary impacts and optimizing feed formulations . Such insights are essential for advancing sustainable , nutritionally balanced aquaculture feeds that support fish welfare and productivity . The minimally invasive sample collection respects the 3Rs ( Reduce , Refine , Replace ) principle in animal experimentation and allows for frequent screening and generation of refined data . FAU - Angelakopoulos , Rafael
The improvement of carcass traits is a key focus in pig genetic breeding programs . To identify quantitative trait loci ( QTLs ) and genes linked to key carcass traits , we conducted a genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) using whole-genome sequencing data from 1118 commercial pigs ( Duroc sires and Yorkshire/Landrace F1 dams ) . This study focused on six phenotypes : iodine value , belly firmness , belly side fat , total side thickness ( belly SThK ) , belly subcutaneous fat ( Subq ) , and belly seam . Phenotypes were measured using image analysis , DEXA , and fatty acid profiling , and genotyping was performed using low-pass sequencing ( SkimSeq ) . After quality control , 18 , 911 , 793 single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) were retained for further analysis . A GWAS was conducted using a linear mixed model implemented in GCTA . Key findings include a significant QTL on SSC15 ( 83-23 Mb ) , which is associated with the iodine value , containing genes such as COX15 , CHUK , SCD , and HIF1AN , which have known roles in fatty acid metabolism . Additionally , PNKD , VIL1 , and PRKAG3 ( 74-88 Mb on SSC15 ) were linked to belly firmness , influencing muscle structure and fat composition . Three QTLs for belly side fat were identified on SSC1 , SSC2 , and SSC3 , highlighting genes like SLC22A18 , PHLDA2 , and OSBPL5 , which regulate fat deposition and lipid metabolism . The results provide novel molecular markers that can be incorporated into selective breeding programs to improve pork quality , fat distribution , and meat composition . These findings enhance our understanding of the genetic mechanisms underlying carcass belly traits while offering tools to improve pork quality , optimize fat composition , and align with consumer preferences in the meat production industry . FAU - Mozduri , Zohre
Intertidal organisms experience daily environmental fluctuations , including changes in temperature , UV radiation , and aerial exposure during low tide , requiring physiological strategies for survival . One adaptation is the " preparation for oxidative stress " ( POS ) , where antioxidants are upregulated preemptively to mitigate oxidative damage . While POS has been documented in over 120 species , in the case of intertidal species , most studies focus on single stressors under controlled-laboratory conditions . This study investigated POS in the sea urchin Echinometra lucunter under natural multi-stress conditions . Sampling occurred over a single day ( from 5 a . m . to noon ) , analyzing three conditions : submerged ( S ) , aerially exposed for 2 h ( AE ) , and reimmersed for 2 h ( R ) . There was a ~4 degrees C temperature increase in the AE group compared to the S group , with a peak of solar radiation during reoxygenation . Antioxidant enzyme activity-catalase , glutathione transferase ( GST ) , and superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) -and lipid peroxidation ( TBARS ) were assessed in gonad and intestine tissues . GST activity increased by fourfold in the intestines of AE individuals , while TBARS was elevated in gonads , where no antioxidant upregulation happened . These results suggest that the POS-response ( increase in GST ) was triggered by the interaction of temperature and aerial exposure . This research emphasizes the critical importance of field studies in understanding complex , natural multi-stressor environments . FAU - Pereira , Tatiana M
Identifying the specific factors secreted during early pregnancy is an effective method for pregnancy detection in cattle , helping to reduce empty pregnancies in the industry . To systematically investigate metabolic variations between early pregnancy and the estrous cycle and their relationship with pregnancy progression , this study utilized four-dimensional data-independent acquisition ( 4D-DIA ) proteomics and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( LC-MS/MS ) metabolomics to analyze serum samples collected from Chinese native yellow cattle at day 0 and day 21 post-mating , combining bioinformatics analysis with experimental validation . The platelet activation signaling pathway and angiogenesis-related proteins were significantly upregulated . Among them , fibrinogen alpha/beta/gamma chains ( FG ) exhibited notable differences , with their branched-chain protein FGB showing highly significant upregulation ( p = 003 , LogFC = 167 ) and tending to increase gradually during early pregnancy , suggesting that FGB could be one of the important indicators of early pregnancy in Chinese native yellow cattle . Among the differential metabolites , 11-Deoxy prostaglandin F1alpha ( p < 001 , LogFC = 563 ) , Thromboxane B1 ( p = 002 , LogFC = 335 ) , and Homo-Gamma-Linolenic Acid ( C20 : 3 ) ( p = 018 , LogFC = 781 ) were also increased , indicating their involvement in the regulation of the platelet activation signaling pathway . The platelet activation signaling pathway plays a crucial role in maternal immune tolerance and placental vascularization , which are essential for embryo implantation and placental development . These findings indicate that FGB has the potential to be a valuable biomarker for early cattle pregnancy detection , thereby improving pregnancy diagnosis accuracy , reducing economic losses caused by undetected empty pregnancies and enhancing reproductive efficiency in the cattle industry . Undoubtedly , our research outcomes must be validated with future studies , and a larger sample size as well as the evaluation of the potential endocrine effects induced by the synchronized estrus treatment must be considered . FAU - Yu , Miao
Oxidative stress ( OS ) occurs when there is an imbalance between the production of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) and the body ' s antioxidant defenses , causing damage to lipids , proteins , and DNA . In marine mammals , physiological adaptation to aquatic life conditions , such as prolonged and repeated dives resulting in cycles of hypoxia followed by reperfusion , is associated with increased production of ROS . This study examines the relationship between oxidative stress , muscular stress , and metabolic damage in the blood serum of eleven captive bottlenose dolphins ( Tursiops truncatus ) , six males and five females . This relationship is investigated using oxidative stress markers ( d-ROMs , OXY , and Oxidative Stress index , OSi ) and biochemical parameter measurements , including glucose ( GLU ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , creatine kinase ( CK ) , and lactate dehydrogenase ( LDH ) . Pearson ' s sex correlation was performed , and males exhibited significantly higher pro-oxidant levels than females , suggesting a potential protective role of female hormones . Also , a positive correlation between pro-oxidants and antioxidants has been observed in relation to age , as older dolphins produced more ROS but also exhibited higher antioxidant capacity , likely to compensate for oxidative damage . Results show no significant correlation between biochemical parameters and oxidative stress markers . However , a moderately positive correlation between LDH and antioxidant ( OXY ) capacity was observed ( r = 458 ) , suggesting a possible association between tissue turnover and antioxidant defenses . The results indicate that the biochemical markers analyzed are not strong predictors of oxidative stress in bottlenose dolphins . However , the correlation between LDH and antioxidant capacity suggests that tissue turnover may affect antioxidant defenses . This is a preliminary study , and further research is needed to clarify these relationships in order to better understand physiological adaptations in dolphins and their implications for management , health , and welfare . FAU - Gatta , Claudia
Metabolomics has proven to be an effective tool for elucidating mechanisms and assessing the effectiveness of dietary interventions in canine and feline nutrition . In this context , the present study aimed to perform a metabolomic analysis of the serum of dogs supplemented with increasing levels of beta-1 , 3/1 , 6-glucans to generate evidence and gain a deeper understanding of the metabolic responses associated with this supplementation . Eight dogs were evenly assigned to two balanced 4 x 4 Latin squares . Four diets were tested , differing only in beta-glucan content ( 0% , 07% , 14% , and 28% ) , and the dogs were fed according to their individual maintenance energy requirements . Each experimental period lasted 35 days . On day 35 , 5 mL of blood was collected via jugular venipuncture to obtain serum for metabolomic analysis . Nuclear magnetic resonance analysis identified 12 key serum metabolites . Hierarchical heat map analysis revealed differences in metabolite intensity between treatments ( p < 05 ) . Additionally , the most relevant metabolic pathways were phenylalanine , tyrosine , and tryptophan metabolism ; alanine , aspartate , and glutamate metabolism ; and glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism . This study demonstrated that increasing levels of purified beta-1 , 3/1 , 6-glucans from Saccharomyces cerevisiae modulated key metabolic pathways in dogs , particularly those related to amino acid , lipid and energy metabolisms , and gut microbiota . These findings provide insights into the mechanisms by which beta-glucans influence canine health . FAU - Marchi , Pedro Henrique
The n-3 long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( n-3 LC-PUFAs ) have a key role in maintaining fish growth and health . However , fish oil ( FO ) , the main source of n-3 LC-PUFAs , is in relative shortage due to the rapid development of the aquaculture industry . In this study , we investigated the efficacy of replacing fish oil with mixtures of algal oil ( AO ) from Schizochytrium sp . and terrestrially sourced oils ( animal oil poultry oil ( PO ) or vegetable oil rapeseed oil ( RO ) ) in the diets of juvenile tiger puffer ( average initial body weight 8 +/- 51 g ) . An 8-week feeding trial was conducted using three experimental diets : a control diet containing 6% added FO ( control FO-C ) and two diets with 3% AO + 3% PO or RO ( groups AO+PO and AO+RO , respectively ) , replacing FO . Each diet was fed to triplicate tanks with 25 fish in each tank . The weight gain , feed conversion ratio , body composition , and serum biochemical parameters were not significantly different among the three groups , except that the AO+PO group had a significantly lower muscle lipid content than the other two groups . The AO-added diets significantly increased the DHA content in whole fish , muscle , and liver samples but significantly reduced the EPA content . The oil mixture treatments significantly increased the contents of monounsaturated fatty acid ( MUFA ) but significantly decreased the contents of saturated fatty acids ( SFAs ) in the liver and whole fish samples . However , the MUFA and SFA contents in the muscle samples were not significantly different among the dietary groups . The diets with oil mixtures did not affect the hepatic histology but tended to result in the atrophy of intestinal villi . The treatment diets downregulated the hepatic gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines ( il-1beta and tnf-alpha ) and the fibrosis marker gene , acta However , the AO+PO diet inhibited the intestinal gene expression of the tight junction protein , claudin In the muscle , the treatment diets upregulated the expression of genes related to cell differentiation and apoptosis ( myod , myog , myf6 , myf5 , bcl-2 , and bax ) . In conclusion , Schizochytrium sp . oil in combination with terrestrial oils ( poultry oil or rapeseed oil ) can be an effective alternative to fish oil in the diets of tiger puffer , but the mixing strategy may be better modified in consideration of intestinal health . FAU - Zhang , Lu
Multiple sclerosis ( MS ) is a chronic autoimmune disorder characterized by inflammation , demyelination , and neurodegeneration within the central nervous system ( CNS ) . While the inflammatory components of MS have been extensively studied , the progressive neurodegenerative aspect remains a critical factor contributing to long-term disability . Therefore , the identification and validation of biomarkers associated with neurodegenerative processes are essential for improved diagnosis , prognosis , and treatment monitoring . This review explores cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) and blood-based biomarkers , including neurofilaments , lipid markers , kynurenines , and other molecular indicators that provide insights into neurodegeneration in MS . FAU - Ciubotaru , Alin
Background/Objectives : This study evaluated the role of a discrete multi-wavelength near-infrared spectroscopic ( DMW-NIRS ) imaging device for rapid breast lesion differentiation . Methods : A total of 62 women ( mean age , 9 years ) with ultrasound ( US ) -guided biopsy-confirmed breast lesions ( 37 malignant , 25 benign ) were included . A handheld probe equipped with five pairs of light-emitting diodes ( LEDs ) and photodiodes ( PDs ) measured lesion-to-normal tissue ( L/N ) ratios of four chromophores , THC ( Total Hemoglobin Concentration ) , StO , and the Tissue Optical Index ( TOI : log10 ( THC x Water/Lipid ) ) . Lesions were localized using US . Diagnostic performance was assessed for each L/N ratio , with subgroup analysis for BI-RADS 4A lesions . Two adaptive BI-RADS models were developed : Model 1 used TOI ( L/N ) thresholds ( Youden index ) , while Model 2 incorporated radiologists ' reassessments of US findings integrated with DMW-NIRS results . These models were compared to the initial BI-RADS assessments , conducted by breast-dedicated radiologists . Results : All L/N ratios significantly differentiated malignant from benign lesions ( p < 05 ) , with TOI ( L/N ) achieving the highest AUC-ROC ( 901 ; 95% CI : 825-976 ) . In BI-RADS 4A lesions , all L/N ratios except Lipid significantly differentiated malignancy ( p < 05 ) , with TOI ( L/N ) achieving the highest AUC-ROC ( 902 ; 95% CI : 788-000 ) . Model 1 and Model 2 showed superior diagnostic performance ( AUC-ROCs : 962 and 922 , respectively ) , significantly outperforming initial BI-RADS assessments ( prospective AUC-ROC : 862 ; retrospective AUC-ROC : 866 ; p < 05 ) . Conclusions : Integrating DMW-NIRS findings with US evaluations enhances diagnostic accuracy , particularly for BI-RADS 4A lesions . This novel device offers a rapid , non-invasive , and efficient method to reduce unnecessary biopsies and improve breast cancer diagnostics . Further validation in larger cohorts is warranted . FAU - Yoon , Jiyoung
Vanilla is native to Mexico and has social-cultural and economic importance . It is sensory characteristics are developed during the curing process , which is associated with the region where it is carried out since the know-how of each locality is involved . In this sense , this work aimed to evaluate the influence of the curing process . Four different processes from four regions ( SJA , SLP , CQ and EPM ) were considered , taking into account two curing conditions . Additionally , sample control was considered . The moisture content , protein , ether extract , ash and pH were analyzed . The aromatic profile was evaluated by the RATA methodology and liking level . Except for ash content , the process influenced the other physicochemical parameters . The moisture contents of SLP and CQ samples from Period 1 , as well as SLP samples from Period 2 , comply with the current Mexican Standard . SJA vanilla was " slightly " accepted in both periods , surpassing the control sample . In contrast , the CQ sample was the least preferred . Thirty-five aromatic descriptors were generated . At the sensory level , a clear separation of vanillas was observed according to the type of curing . The attributes described included caramel , dry fruit , fruity , honey , maltol , rancid , sweet , tree bark , vanilla and ashes , which boosted the liking level . On the other hand , the descriptors chemical , moisture , dairy , spicy , wood and lipids had a negative effect , proving that these factors can alter the aromatic balance , giving an unpleasant smell and reducing preference . It was confirmed that the curing process influences physicochemical parameters , the aromatic profile and the liking level . However , it would be necessary to consider other variables . FAU - Perez-Viveros , Isabel Janid
The by-products of passion fruit are typically discarded during processing , contributing to resource waste and environmental harm . These residues are rich in dietary fiber and polyphenols , compounds linked to health benefits , including blood sugar regulation , improved lipid profiles , gut microbiome balance , and weight management . Beyond their nutritional value , these by-products possess dual functional roles in food systems : their bioactive components act as natural fortifiers and health-promoting agents . Recent studies indicate they can enhance food quality by improving water retention and texture while serving as prebiotics to promote beneficial gut bacteria growth . This dual functionality supports both food innovation and metabolic health , particularly in reducing post-meal blood sugar spikes . To advance research and industry applications , this review synthesizes recent findings on the nutritional properties of passion fruit by-products and their use in food products such as dairy , pasta , and meat . The analysis aims to guide the sustainable utilization of these underrated resources and expand their role in functional food development . FAU - Liu , Zhaohan
This study investigated the effect of the water content of large yellow croaker fillets on their quality characteristics after roasting . The large yellow croaker fillets were randomly divided into groups , namely , the fresh group ( BMC-77 ) , the 3% salt-cured group ( BMC-70 ) , and groups cured with 3% salt followed by hot air drying to obtain different moisture contents ( BMC-65 , BMC-60 , and BMC-55 ) . Then , the fillets were roasted at 220 degrees C for 20 min . There were four replicates for each group . Various indicators , including color , texture , thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance ( TBARS ) content , total volatile basic nitrogen ( TVB-N ) content , water distribution , volatile components , and myofibrillar proteins were determined , and a sensory evaluation was carried out . The results showed that as the water content decreased , the lightness ( L* ) of the roasted fillets significantly decreased ( p < 05 ) , while the redness ( a* ) and yellowness ( b* ) increased . The hardness , shear force , TBARS , and TVB-N values all increased significantly ( p < 05 ) . The proportion of immobile water decreased , while the proportions of tightly bound water , free water , and loosely bound water increased . The electronic nose , electronic tongue , and GC-MS analyses revealed that there were significant differences in odor , taste , and volatile components among fillets with different water contents . A comprehensive analysis of all the indicators demonstrated that the fillets with an initial water content of 65% ( BMC-65 ) achieved the best sensory qualities after roasting in terms of taste and flavor . An appropriate reduction in the initial water content helped to improve the texture and appearance of the fillets while delaying the degradation of proteins and lipids . This study provides a theoretical foundation for optimizing the roasting process of large yellow croaker fillets . Future research could explore the synergistic effects of the roasting conditions and water content to achieve more accurate quality control . FAU - Huang , Shuting
The production of mezcal from agave is one of the main beverage industries worldwide , generating large amounts of waste , such as agave bagasse . Improper management of this waste often causes environmental contamination . Some studies have begun to demonstrate that agave bagasse has the potential to be recycled as a source of functional ingredients due to its dietary fiber and bioactive compound content . However , the greatest disadvantage of using these wastes is the significant variation in compound content and bioactivity in response to seasonal climatic variations . This study aimed to analyze the chemical and bioactive content of agave bagasse from three mezcal factories in Mexico . We conducted proximate composition analysis , phenolic compound measurement , dietary fiber assessment , antioxidant capacity evaluation , and structural analysis using FTIR- Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy . The study found significantly higher ash content ( 75% ) , carbohydrates ( 71% ) , and soluble fiber ( 91% ) in the spring compared to other seasons . The summer showed a higher lipid content ( 25% ) , while the highest concentration of sugars ( 77% ) was observed during the winter . The highest antioxidant capacity ( 15 mM eq Trolox/mg ) was recorded in autumn . The FTIR analysis revealed that the greatest abundance of bioactive compounds was observed in the spring and summer , while structural carbohydrates were more prominent in autumn and winter . This study is the first to thoroughly analyze the seasonal variation in phytochemicals and macromolecules in agave residues , crucial for exploring new ingredient sources to expand our food supply and recycling agri-food wastes . FAU - Alvarez-Chavez , Jimena
In this study , liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) was employed to conduct untargeted metabolomics analysis on black rice ( BR ) , milled black rice ( MBR ) , wet germinated black rice ( WBR ) , and high-temperature and high-pressure-treated WBR ( HTP-WBR ) . A total of 6988 positive ions and 7099 negative ions ( multiple difference >/=2 or </=8333 , p < 05 , and variable importance in projection >/=1 ) were isolated , and 98 and 100 differential metabolic pathways were identified between the different samples in the positive and negative ion modes , respectively . Distinctive variations in the metabolic compositions of BR , MBR , WBR , and HTP-WBR were observed . Flavonoids , fatty acids , lipids , phenylpropanoids , polyketides , benzenoids , and organooxygen were the dominant differential metabolites . Milling removed the majority of bran-associated bioactive components such as phenolic acids , anthocyanins , micronutrients , fatty acids , antioxidants , and dietary fiber . The germination process significantly reduced the number of flavonoids , polyketides , and lipid-related metabolites , while enzymatic activation notably increased the number of organic acids and amino acids . HTP treatment synergistically enhanced the content of heat-stable flavonoids and polyketides , while simultaneously promoting fatty acid beta-oxidation . These findings establish novel theoretical foundations for optimizing processing methodologies and advancing functional characterization in black rice product development . FAU - Hong , Bin
This study elucidated the regulatory mechanisms of age-related meat flavor precursors in naturally grazed Sunit sheep of different ages ( 6 , 18 , and 30 months ) by analyzing their metabolite and mRNA profiles . The longissimus dorsi muscle was sampled from each group and subjected to metabolomics and transcriptomics analyses . A total of 395 differential metabolites ( DMs ) and 1482 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were detected across the age groups . As the age increased , the expression levels of GOT1 and GLUL increased , activating arginine biosynthesis and alanine , aspartate , and glutamate metabolism pathways , which promoted the accumulation of umami compounds ( L-glutamate and L-glutamine ) . Meanwhile , the expression level of LPIN1 increased with age , promoting glycerophospholipid metabolism and contributing to the development of lipid-related aroma . FADS1 and FADS2 expressed the highest levels at age Mth_ This pattern influenced the unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis pathway and consequently had a regulatory effect on the DHA levels . An amino acid metabolic regulatory network that involved arginine biosynthesis , alanine , aspartate and glutamate metabolisms , and arginine and proline metabolisms was established . This study provided insights into the variations in meat flavor precursors among sheep of different ages and elucidated the underlying regulatory mechanisms . FAU - Huang , Yajuan
Water-in-Oil high internal phase emulsions ( W/O HIPEs ) have great potential in developing novel healthy food products . However , the high content of the aqueous phase poses great risks in physical stability and lipid oxidation . This study aimed to understand the relationship between physical stability and lipid oxidation of W/O HIPEs , focusing on the roles of emulsifiers , aqueous phase volume , and NaCl concentration . The findings revealed that increasing the polyglycerol polyricinoleate ( PGPR ) concentration ( 10 wt% ) significantly enhanced physical stability and slowed lipid oxidation at various temperatures . W/O emulsions with varying aqueous phase volumes ( 30-80% ) maintained good physical stability ; however , a higher aqueous phase volume significantly accelerated lipid oxidation . Furthermore , the inclusion of NaCl ( 10-300 mM ) improved the physical stability of W/O HIPEs but also accelerated lipid oxidation . Notably , W/O HIPEs with 50 mM NaCl showed both optimal physical and oxidative stability . Additionally , based on the fitting equation of the primary oxidation products , it was predicted that the oxidation reaction of the W/O emulsion followed a zero-order oxidation kinetics model . By altering the structure of the emulsion system , the physical stability and lipid oxidation stability of the emulsion could be regulated , thereby extending the storage time of food products . Overall , these findings emphasized the critical role of interfacial properties in lipid oxidation , providing new insights for optimizing food formulations to enhance long-term stability . FAU - Wei , Jiao
Hong-Jam is a functional food product made from freeze-dried silkworms on the seventh to eights day of the fifth Instar stage , which are steamed for 2 h prior to drying . This study evaluated the storage stability of Hong-Jam under varying temperatures , product forms , and packaging conditions . By using the correlation analysis , novel quality indices that may complement or replace traditional lipid-oxidation markers in edible-insect products were identified . Peroxide value ( POV ) and acid value ( AV ) , which are factors of lipid oxidation , significantly increased under high-temperature conditions . Dependency of temperature ( D ( T ) ) analysis revealed that POV had a higher D ( T ) than AV , and glass bottles exhibited higher D ( T ) than polyethylene ( PE ) pouches . In the four-way analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) analysis , the Fisher ' s F-statistic ( F-value ) for single effects of individual storage conditions was notably higher than the interaction effects . During storage , the moisture content increased and the pH decreased , while the color remained relatively stable . The results of the correlation analysis indicated that there was a significant correlation between moisture content and pH with lipid oxidation indices such as POV and AV . This suggests that these two factors could be used as complementary factors in quality assessments . In conclusion , this research provides foundational data that can be used to develop improved storage standards and quality assurance protocols for Hong-Jam and similar edible insect foods . These advancements will contribute to extending shelf life , enhancing consumer safety , and promoting the broader acceptance of edible insects in the food industry . Through a comprehensive understanding of the stability factors , this study supports the development of reliable quality management practices that align with the increasing consumer demand for sustainable and functional food options . FAU - Kim , Min-Seok
The covering oils of twenty-two commercially canned sardines were studied by Proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance spectroscopy ( H NMR ) freshly purchased and also after storage at room temperature for fifteen years . The filling oils studied were olive oils ( one extra-virgin olive oil ) , sunflower oils , soybean oils , and vegetable oils ( unspecified origin ) . The aim was to obtain qualitative and quantitative information on lipid composition , oxidative and hydrolytic status , and on the changes occurring during storage . Just after purchase , in all the samples , the migration of fish omega-3 polyunsaturated eicosapentaenoic ( EPA , C20 : 5omega3 ) and docosahexaenoic ( DHA , C22 : 6omega3 ) acyl groups was reported ; the occurrence of oxidative or hydrolytic reactions was not observed . After storage , the main change in the spectra was the presence of signals due to hydrolytic compounds ( mainly 1 , 3-diglycerides , together with 1 , 2-diglycerides , 1-monoglycerides , and lower proportions of 2-monoglycerides ) . In eleven samples very low concentrations of saturated aldehydes ( alkanals ) were detected , which is considered a low oxidative status . It is suggested that the above-mentioned partial glycerides and alkanals migrated from sardine muscle to the oils . The content in omega-3 lipids in the oils after storage indicated the occurrence of lipid interchange between the sardine muscle and the packing oil in both directions . FAU - Goicoechea-Oses , Encarnacion
Hyperlipidemia is one of the most prevalent metabolic disorders worldwide . It is a significant risk factor for a range of cardiovascular diseases , including acute pancreatitis , fatty liver disease , atherosclerosis , and coronary heart disease . In clinical practice , the management of hyperlipidemia is hindered by numerous challenges . One of the critical issues is that traditional lipid-lowering drugs often require long-term or even lifelong administration , potentially inducing a range of adverse effects that compromise patient compliance and therapeutic efficacy . Therefore , there is an urgent need to develop safer and more effective strategies for the prevention and adjunctive treatment of hyperlipidemia with the aim of reducing the risk of disease and over-reliance on medication . Recent studies have revealed a close relationship between hyperlipidemia and related metabolic disorders involving gut microbiota dysbiosis , and the administration of probiotics has been shown to improve lipid metabolism homeostasis . This review summarizes the molecular mechanisms of probiotics in hyperlipidemia treatment and the latest advances in probiotic research on lipid metabolism , enumerates the experimental and clinical applications of probiotic-based therapies , introduces methods for screening and identifying probiotics with lipid-lowering functions , and , for the first time , summarizes the roles of emerging technologies such as functional genomics and in vivo zebrafish-on-a-chip models in studying the lipid-lowering efficacy of probiotics , providing insights for researchers . By facilitating a deeper understanding of the mechanisms whereby probiotics reduce blood lipid levels and furthering the development of multifaceted screening methods , we hope that we can achieve high-throughput and efficient screening of probiotics with lipid-lowering functions , thereby promoting the sustainable , high-quality , and rapid development of the probiotics industry . FAU - Wang , Jingli
In this study , the impacts of water-bath reheating ( WR ) , steam reheating ( SR ) , air-frying reheating ( AR ) , roasting reheating ( RR ) , and microwave reheating ( MR ) on the physicochemical properties , oxidation , and flavor profiles of crispy chicken ( CC ) were investigated . The results revealed that the pH of CC was significantly reduced after reheating ( p < 05 ) . The AR samples had a slight change in L* and the highest springiness . The RR samples had the highest degree of lipid and protein oxidation . In addition , WR , AR , RR , and MR treatments effectively increased the contents of umami-related amino acids . Glu and Cys were typically the taste-active amino acids in CC . AR contributed to increasing the response values of umami and richness . As shown by the electronic nose and Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry ( GC-MS ) analysis , 41 volatile compounds were obtained in CC . AR could efficiently increase the contents of nitrogen oxides and methyl compounds . Meanwhile , the content of trans- . alpha . -bergamotene , nonanal , and copaene were significantly increased after the AR process ( p < 05 ) . According to the results of analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) , odor activity value ( OAV ) , and variable importance in projection ( VIP ) , anethole was considered the key differential flavor-active compound . Overall , AR was superior to other reheating methods in CC , with better texture and various flavor characteristics . This study provides a reference for choosing reheating technology for pre-cooked chicken products . FAU - Ren , Xiaona
Caciocavallo Silano PDO is a traditional Italian stretched-curd cheese produced in southern Italy , subjected to a minimum ripening period of 30 days . The present study aimed to characterize the chemical composition and fatty acid ( FA ) profile at three ripening stages ( up to 120 days ) . The proximate composition , FAs profile , and lactose content of cheese samples from three production batches , all made with Friesian cow milk , were analyzed . The results showed significant compositional changes during maturation . Moisture content decreased from 5% in 30 days to 0% in 120 days , with a corresponding increase in protein and fat content . Lactose content was below the limit of quantification ( LOQ ) at all ripening stages , confirming its natural depletion over time . The FA analysis revealed thirty-five different FAs , including fourteen saturated fatty acids ( SFAs ) , nine monounsaturated fatty acids ( MUFAs ) , and twelve polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) . Among SFAs , palmitic and stearic acids were the most abundant , while lauric and myristic acids significantly increased with ripening . The sum of MUFAs showed a slight decrease , mainly due to the reduction in oleic acid , which dropped from 6% to 3% over maturation . Conversely , PUFAs exhibited a significant increase , particularly linoleic and alpha-linolenic acids , which are associated with positive health effects . In particular , an increase in PUFA composition and an optimal omega-6/omega-3 ratio could have a positive effect on health , with a consequent enhancement of cardiovascular function . The findings suggest that cheese maturation influences its nutritional and lipid profile , with potential implications for consumer health . Future research should assess how feeding strategies and production methods impact the FA composition of Caciocavallo Silano PDO . FAU - Tardiolo , Giuseppe
This study investigates the antioxidative potential of pomegranate peel extract ( PPE ) and prickly pear peel extract ( HPE ) as natural preservatives in cooked chicken models . The extracts were characterized for their phenolic and tannin content , and their antioxidant activity was measured through in vitro chemical assays using ABTS , DPPH , and FRAP assays . Cooked chicken samples were formulated with different concentrations of PPE or HPE and compared to sodium nitrite ( NaNO ) treatment . The effects on lipid and protein oxidation , instrumental colour parameters , and aldehyde formation were evaluated during storage . The results demonstrated that PPE exhibited higher antioxidant activity compared to HPE , particularly at higher concentrations . PPE_300 had the highest phenolic content , exhibited the strongest radical scavenging activity , and significantly reduced lipid oxidation markers such as malondialdehyde and lipid hydroperoxides . PPE also preserved protein integrity by reducing carbonyl formation and maintaining thiol levels . Colour stability was improved in both PPE- and HPE-treated samples , although nitrite remained the most effective in maintaining redness ( a*-values ) . These findings suggest that PPE , particularly at 300 mg/kg , is a promising natural alternative to synthetic antioxidants for improving oxidative stability and shelf life in meat products . Further research should explore sensory attributes and consumer acceptance to facilitate industrial applications . FAU - Lavado , Guadalupe
The increasing demand for sustainable , economical , and environmentally friendly solutions has positioned microalgae as promising candidates in biotechnology , particularly in food , feed , nutraceutical , pharmaceutical , biofuel , and bioremediation applications . This review explores the role of the Nannochloropsis genus and other marine oleaginous microalgae in co-cultivation systems , highlighting their mechanisms of interaction with various microorganisms and their potential for various biotechnological purposes . Case studies of Nannochloropsis sp . co-cultures with other microalgae , bacteria , and fungi are presented . The different types of associations are described as alternative strategies to enhance biomass productivity , lipid accumulation , and nutrient recycling . A key focus of this review is the potential of Nannochloropsis microalgae co-cultivation in food , as it is part of the list of microalgae to be approved for consumption in the European Union , discussing their rich nutritional value , safety , and regulatory status . Additionally , the role of microalgae in the alternative protein sector is explored , with particular emphasis on their integration in cultivated meat products as nutrient suppliers and metabolic partners for animal cells . Despite their potential , several challenges , such as scale-up , contamination risk , and strain selection , remain key obstacles to the widespread adoption of microalgal biotechnology . Future research should focus on optimizing microalgae-based co-cultures for food applications , addressing safety concerns , and further investigating their integration into functional foods and cellular agriculture products . FAU - Esteves , Marta Vala
The consumption of microalgae-based foods is growing due to their exceptional nutritional benefits and sustainable cultivation . However , their strong off-flavors and odors hinder their incorporation into food products . Lactic acid fermentation , a traditional method known for modifying bioactive and aromatic compounds , may address these challenges . This study aims to evaluate the impact of lactic acid fermentation on the aromatic profiles of four distinct Chlorella vulgaris biomasses , each varying in protein , carbohydrate , lipid , and pigment content . Six lactic acid bacteria ( LAB ) strains , Lacticaseibacillus casei , Lcb . paracasei , Lcb . rhamnosus , Lactiplantibacillus plantarum , Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp . bulgaricus , and Leuconostoc citreum , were used for fermentation . All biomasses supported LAB growth , and their volatile profiles were analyzed via HS-SPME-GC-MS , revealing significant variability . Fermentation notably reduced concentrations of compounds responsible for off-flavors , such as aldehydes . Specifically , hexanal , associated with a green and leafy aroma , was significantly decreased . Lcb . paracasei UPCCO 2333 showed the most effective modulation of the volatile profile in Chlorella vulgaris , significantly reducing undesirable compounds , such as aldehydes , ketones , pyrazines , and terpenes , while enhancing ester production . These results highlight lactic acid fermentation as an effective method to improve the sensory characteristics of C . vulgaris biomasses , enabling their broader use in innovative , nutritionally rich food products . FAU - Nicolotti , Caterina
The cyanobacterium Arthrospira platensis ( Spirulina ) has a global annual production of approximately 18 , 000 tons . Spirulina has notable nutritional benefits and is a key component of dietary supplements . However , efficiently extracting its bioactive compounds poses challenges . This study aimed to develop an eco-innovative method to enhance Spirulina ' s antioxidant and nutritional values . The extraction protocol included a maceration step in phosphate-buffered saline ( PBS , pH 4 ) at 5 degrees C for 48 h , followed by ultrasound-assisted extraction ( UAE ) at 400 W and 30 kHz , with a frequency of 30 cycles per min ( consisting of 1 s on/off cycles , for a total of 6 extraction cycles ) . The proposed methodology allowed for the quantitative recovery of high-value compounds from Spirulina raw material ( control ) , with increased yields of total lipids ( +29% ) , total fatty acids ( +48% ) , allophycocyanin ( Apc , +41% ) , phycoerythrin ( Pe , +42% ) , carotenoids ( +84% ) , and polyphenols ( +99% ) , leading to a boost in antioxidant activity ( +95% ) . Conversely , the recoveries of proteins ( -65% ) , carbohydrates ( -84% ) , and phycocyanin ( Pc , -77% ) were incomplete . This study suggests a green extraction approach using PBS coupled with UAE , with promising energy and cost savings and potential applications in the dietary supplement sector . FAU - Milia , Massimo
Embryo rice , as a product of processing rice , improves palatability and retains the nutritional characteristics of brown rice . However , the storage period of embryo rice is only 30 d at room temperature . To delay the deterioration in the quality of embryo rice during storage , this study used polyethylene terephthalate/aluminum foil/polyethylene ( PET/AL/PE ) to vacuum-package embryo rice , and analyzed the quality changes under 25 or 4 degrees C storage conditions . At the same time , volatile compound analysis and transcriptomic analysis were integrated to explore the quality deterioration mechanism of embryo rice during storage . The electronic nose results showed that the odor of embryo rice changed significantly during different storage periods ( p < 05 ) . A total of 72 volatile compounds were identified by Headspace-Solid-Phase Micro-Extraction-Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry ( HS-SPME-GC-MS ) , with 2-pentylfuran , naphthalene , and styrene contributing the most in the early stage , and 2-hexenal , nonanal , trans-2-nonenal , and ethanol contributing more in the later stage . Correlation analysis showed that fatty acids , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , lipase , and ferric-reducing antioxidant power ( FRAP ) were positively correlated with aldehydes and acids ( p < 05 ) , while catalase ( CAT ) and 2 , 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl ( DPPH ) were negatively correlated ( p < 05 ) . This was mainly because the oxidative decomposition of lipids and the weakening of antioxidant capacity would lead to the accumulation of aldehydes . In the Mantel test analysis , color had the strongest correlation with volatile compounds , followed by taste value , and finally texture . In transcriptomic analysis , lipid synthesis and metabolism were key pathways for the storage deterioration of embryo rice , and the LOX gene played an important regulatory role . These results can provide a theoretical basis for the evaluation of quality and selection of storage method of embryo rice . FAU - Yang , Xiyuan
Breast cancer remains one of the leading causes of cancer-related mortality among women worldwide . Although the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin exhibits notable anti-tumor activity , its clinical application is limited by metabolic side effects , particularly dyslipidemia . This study aimed to investigate the potential of Ilex latifolia ( I . latifolia , large-leaf kudingcha ) , a traditional Chinese tea known for its lipid-lowering properties , to enhance the therapeutic efficacy of rapamycin in breast cancer . The combined effects of I . latifolia and low-dose rapamycin on tumor cell proliferation , cell cycle progression , apoptosis , and inflammation were assessed in four breast cancer cell lines and a murine breast cancer model . While low-dose I . latifolia alone exhibited limited anti-tumor activity , its combination with low-dose rapamycin synergistically inhibited tumor proliferation , induced cell cycle arrest , promoted apoptosis , and reduced inflammation in vitro . In vivo , dietary supplementation with I . latifolia mitigated rapamycin-induced lipid disturbances , reduced tumor growth , enhanced apoptosis , and alleviated inflammation in tumor tissues . These findings highlight I . latifolia as a promising dietary adjunct to rapamycin , providing a safer and more effective combinatorial strategy for breast cancer treatment . FAU - Ren , Zhengnan
BACKGROUND : Red macroalgal flour resulting from commercial phycocolloid extraction has been shown to include valuable preservative compounds . METHODS : This study focused on the preservative effect of a gelatin-based packaging system including Gelidium sp . flour during refrigerated storage of Trachurus trachurus fillets . Different microbial and chemical indices related to quality loss were determined in fish muscle during a 6-day storage period at 4 degrees C . RESULTS : Compared with gelatin-packaged control samples , those packaged in the system including the algal flour presented significantly lower microbial development ( aerobic bacteria , psychrotrophic bacteria , and proteolytic bacteria ) and significantly lower chemical indices related to microbial development ( pH and trimethylamine ) . With respect to lipid oxidation , there was significantly greater retention of peroxides and significantly lower formation of secondary oxidation products in the samples packaged with the algal flour . Additionally , the algal flour group presented significantly less lipid hydrolysis . CONCLUSIONS : A preservative effect was derived from the addition of Gelidium flour to a gelatin-based packaging system during refrigerated storage of T . trachurus . This study supports the practical and valuable use of Gelidium sp . flour and addresses the current global interest in natural sources of preservative compounds and the use of marine byproducts . FAU - Gomez , Antonio
This study evaluates the effects of dietary selenium ( Se ) sources-sodium selenite ( SS ) , nano-selenium ( Nano-Se ) , selenocysteine ( Se-C ) , and selenomethionine ( Se-Met ) -on production performance , egg quality , preservation characteristics , yolk Se content , and antioxidant capacity in Hy-Line Grey laying hens . A total of 450 healthy 18-week-old Hy-Line Grey laying hens were allocated to five groups ( basal diet without Se , 30 mg/kg SS , Nano-Se , Se-C , or Se-Met ) for an 8-week trial after a 4-week Se-depletion phase . The key results demonstrate that while no significant differences were observed in the feed intake , egg production rate , or egg weight among the groups ( p > 05 ) , organic Se ( Se-C , Se-Met ) and Nano-Se significantly improved the yolk color ( p < 05 ) and yolk index ( p < 05 ) and mitigated declines in the albumen height and Haugh unit during storage . Notably , Nano-Se exhibited superior efficacy in enhancing yolk color and antioxidant enzyme activity ( p < 05 ) . Furthermore , organic Se and Nano-Se increased yolk Se deposition ( p < 05 ) , increased yolk antioxidant enzyme activity ( p < 05 ) , and reduced lipid peroxidation ( p < 05 ) . These findings indicate that supplementing 3 mg/kg organic Se or Nano-Se enhances egg quality , extends shelf life , and improves antioxidant capacity , offering a sustainable strategy for selenium-enriched egg production . FAU - Chen , Yanhong
This study explored the bioactive lipid compounds and assessed the nutritional potential of glyceride oils extracted from flower buds and fruits of Lagerstroemia indica L . cultivar ' Hopi ' grown in Bulgaria . The study focused on chemical composition , fatty acid composition , and the content of biologically active compounds of the oils . The results indicated relatively higher levels of glyceride oil in fruits ( F ) , 8% , compared to flower buds ( FB ) , 3% . A similar trend was observed for protein content-7% ( F ) vs . 7% ( FB ) . Total sterol and phospholipid content was higher in the FB than in the F . The primary components of sterol composition were beta-sitosterol and campesterol . The main individual phospholipid classes were phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylcholine in both oils . Linoleic acid was the predominant component ( 3% in the oil from the FB vs . 0% in the oil from the F ) , followed by comparable quantities of oleic acid . Palmitic acid was the main saturated fatty acid . To evaluate the therapeutic effect of isolated glyceride oils , the following indices were measured : index of atherogenicity , thrombogenicity , and hypocholesterolemic/hypercholesterolemic ratio . The study sought to compare the levels of glyceride oil , protein content , total sterol and phospholipid content , and to identify the main components of fatty acids , sterols , and phospholipids in the flower buds and fruits and their oils of L . indica cultivar ' Hopi ' . FAU - Teneva , Olga
Cold plasma ( CP ) is a non-thermal technology , successfully used to decontaminate and extend the shelf-life of various foods . However , CP can cause quality deterioration in sensitive matrices , such as fish products . This research aimed to evaluate the effect of CP treatment obtained using different gas mixtures ( 80% Ar/20% O , or 80% N/20% O ) with a surface dielectric barrier discharge ( SDBD ) on the decontamination of spoilage microflora , the main quality indices and the sensory acceptability of seabream ( Spaurus aurata L . ) fillets during refrigerated storage . At the beginning and at the end of the shelf life , lipid and protein oxidation indices and the fatty acid profile were evaluated . Results showed that , despite a low initial microbial decontamination ( 2-3 Log CFU/g ) , an inhibition of the growth of the main spoilage bacteria was observed resulting in an increase of the microbiological shelf life of around 40% for both treatments . Although a slight increase in lipid and protein oxidation was observed ( up to around 5 mg MDA/kg and 4 nmol/mg of protein for TBARs and carbonyl content respectively ) , the sensory acceptability was higher for plasma treated samples , while the fatty acid profile was not affected and only a slight variation in the surface colour was observed ( L* value increase by 3 points ) , confirming that CP could represent an interesting strategy to extend the shelf life of seafood products with minimal impact on quality and nutritional value . FAU - Tappi , Silvia
Cancer cells are often described as voracious consumers of nutrients , with glucose frequently cited as a key energy source ; however , their metabolic plasticity allows them to adapt and utilize various substrates , including lipids and amino acids , to sustain growth and survival . However , the metabolic demands of immune cells within the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) are less commonly discussed despite their critical role in shaping the immune response . In this review , we explored the intricate interplay between immunometabolism and innate immunity cells in gastrointestinal cancers . We focused on how metabolic pathways , including glycolysis , fatty acid oxidation , and amino acid metabolism , drive the immunosuppressive functions of myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( MDSCs ) and tumor-associated neutrophils ( TANs ) , tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and innate lymphocyte subsets such as NK cells . These cells contribute to a hostile immune landscape , supporting tumor growth and evasion from immune surveillance in a phenomenon of tumor-derived immunosuppression . Additionally , we investigated the influence of dietary interventions on the metabolic reprogramming of these immune cells , highlighting how nutrition can modulate the TME . Finally , we discussed emerging therapeutic strategies that target metabolic vulnerabilities in MDSCs , TANs , NK cells , and monocytes , offering a novel avenue for enhancing antitumor immunity . By dissecting these mechanisms , we aim to provide insights into how metabolic pathways can be harnessed to improve cancer treatment outcomes . This review underscores the importance of understanding immunometabolism not only as a driver of immune suppression but also as a potential therapeutic target in gastrointestinal cancer . FAU - Sieminska , Izabela
BACKGROUND : Doxorubicin ( DOX ) , a widely used chemotherapeutic agent , is limited in clinical application due to its dose-dependent cardiotoxicity . Therefore , it is crucial to explore alternative therapeutic molecules or drugs for mitigating DOX-induced cardiomyopathy ( DIC ) . In this study aimed to explore underlying mechanisms of the cardioprotective effects of Kaempferol ( KP ) against DIC . METHODS : H9c2 cell-based DIC model were established to explore the pharmacological mechanism . The levels of mitochondrial membrane potential , mitochondrial ROS , mitochondrial Fe ( 2+ ) and lipid peroxidation were detected using JC-1 , TMRE , Mito-SOX , Mito-Ferro Green and C11-BODIPY 581/591 probes . Furthermore , Western blot analysis measured the expression of key regulatory proteins , and NRF2-targeting siRNA was transfected into H9c2 cells . The nuclear translocation of NRF2 was assessed by immunofluorescence . RESULTS : Data revealed that KP mitigated DOX-induced mitochondrial damage and ferroptosis via reducing membrane potential , mitochondrial ROS/Fe ( + ) , and regulating lipid metabolism . Mechanistically , Western blot analysis revealed that KP inhibited DOX-induced ferroptosis by activating NRF2/SLC7A11/GPX4 axis . Moreover , KP promoted the accumulation and nuclear translocation of NRF2 protein . CONCLUSION : These findings demonstrated that KP protected against DOX-induced myocardial damage by inhibiting mitochondrial ROS-dependent ferroptosis . This provides novel insights into KP as a promising drug candidate for cardioprotection . FAU - Zhang , Lin
BACKGROUND : Patients diagnosed with both aortic stenosis ( AS ) and diabetes mellitus ( DM ) encounter a distinctive set of challenges due to the interplay between these two conditions . This study aimed to investigate the effects of DM on the left ventricle in AS patients , specifically focusing on the inflammatory response , oxidative stress , and their implications for cardiomyocyte function , titin phosphorylation , and the nitric oxide ( NO ) -soluble guanylyl cyclase ( sGC ) -cyclic guanosine monophosphate ( cGMP ) -protein kinase G ( PKG ) signaling pathway . METHODS AND RESULTS : Left ventricular myocardial biopsies ( in total : n = 28 ) were obtained from patients with diabetic AS ( n = 11 ) and compared with those from non-diabetic AS patients ( n = 17 ) . Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) demonstrated significantly elevated levels of pro-inflammatory mediators , including high mobility group box protein 1 ( HMGB1 ) and calprotectin , as well as receptors associated with the inflammatory response , such as Toll-like receptor 2 ( TLR2 ) , 4 ( TLR4 ) , and receptor for advanced glycation endproducts ( RAGE ) . These were correlated with an enhanced NOD-like receptor protein 3 ( NLRP3 ) inflammasome and the release of interleukins ( IL ) 1 , 6 , and 18 in diabetic AS patients compared to their non-diabetic counterparts . Additionally , in the diabetic AS cohort , there was an increase in oxidative stress markers ( hydrogen peroxide ( HO ) , 3-nitrotyrosine , lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , oxidative glutathione ( GSSG ) /reduced glutathione ( GSH ) ratio ) within the myocardium and mitochondria , accompanied by impaired NO-sGC-cGMP-PKG signaling , decreased titin phosphorylation , and increased passive stiffness ( F ( passive ) ) of cardiomyocytes relative to non-diabetic AS patients . In vitro anti-inflammatory treatment with an IL-6 inhibitor and antioxidant treatment with GSH effectively normalized the elevated F ( passive ) observed in AS patients with DM to levels comparable to the non-diabetic group . Furthermore , treatment with PKG and the sodium-glucose cotransporter 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitor empagliflozin also resulted in a reduction of F ( passive ) in cardiomyocytes from diabetic AS patients , although not to the levels observed in non-diabetic AS patients . CONCLUSION : DM exacerbates inflammation and oxidative stress in AS patients , leading to impaired NO-sGC-cGMP-PKG signaling and increased cardiomyocyte F ( passive ) . These conditions are reminiscent of the pathophysiology of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction ( HFpEF ) . These alterations can be ameliorated through anti-inflammatory and antioxidant therapies , indicating potential therapeutic strategies for diabetic patients suffering from AS .
BACKGROUND : Malignant ascites is a common complication of advanced ovarian cancer ( OC ) and gastrointestinal cancer ( GI ) , significantly impacting metastasis , quality of life , and survival . Increased intestinal permeability can lead to blood or lymphatic infiltration and microbial translocation from the gastrointestinal or uterine tract . This study aimed to identify microbiota-derived metabolites in ascites from OC ( stages II-III and IV ) and GI patients , assessing their roles in tumor progression . METHODS : Malignant ascites samples from 18 OC and GI patients were analyzed using a four-dimensional ( 4D ) untargeted metabolomics approach combining reversed-phase ( RP ) and hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography ( HILIC ) with trapped ion mobility spectrometry time-of-flight mass spectrometry ( timsTOF-MS ) . Additonally , a targeted flow cytometry-based cytokine panel was used to screen for inflammatory markers . Non-endogenous , microbiota-derived metabolites were identified through the Human Microbial Metabolome Database ( MiMeDB ) . RESULTS : OC stage IV exhibited metabolic profiles similar to GI cancers , while OC stage II-III differed significantly . Stage IV OC patients exhibited higher levels of 11 typically microbiome-derived metabolites , including 1-methylhistidine , 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid , 4-pyridoxic acid , biliverdin , butyryl-L-carnitine , hydroxypropionic acid , indole , lysophosphatidylinositol 18 : 1 ( LPI 18 : 1 ) , mevalonic acid , N-acetyl-L-phenylalanine , and nudifloramide , and lower levels of 5 metabolites , including benzyl alcohol , naringenin , o-cresol , octadecanedioic acid , and phenol , compared to stage II-III . Correlation analysis revealed positive associations between IL-10 and metabolites such as glucosamine and LPCs , while MCP-1 positively correlated with benzyl alcohol and phenol . CONCLUSION : 4D metabolomics revealed distinct metabolic signatures in OC and GI ascites , highlighting microbiota-derived metabolites involved in lipid metabolism and inflammation . Metabolites like 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid , indole , and naringenin may serve as markers of disease progression and underscore the microbiota ' s role in shaping malignant ascites and tumor biology .
BACKGROUND : Oxysterols , gut metabolites , and N6-methyladenosine ( m6A ) are extensively implicated in the pathogenesis of cognitive dysfunction , while their alterations in different stages of mild cognitive impairment ( MCI ) have not been elucidated . Therefore , this study was conducted to explore the associations of oxysterols , gut metabolites , and m6A methylation profiles in early MCI ( EMCI ) and late MCI ( LMCI ) individuals . METHODS : Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry , untargeted metabolomic analysis , and m6A mRNA Epitranscriptomic Microarray were used to detect the characteristics of serum oxysterols ( n = 35/group ) , fecal gut metabolites ( n = 30/group ) , and m6A in whole blood ( n = 4/group ) respectively . The concentration of serum beta-amyloid ( Abeta ) was detected with ELISA ( n = 25/group ) . The gene expression of amyloid precursor protein ( APP ) and its key enzyme beta-secretase ( BACE1 ) in whole blood were measured by quantitative real-time PCR ( n = 25/group ) . RESULTS : EMCIs and LMCIs , especially LMCIs , exhibited poorer performance in almost all global and multidimensional cognitive tests . Serum 27-hydroxycholesterol ( 27-OHC ) and 24S-hydroxycholesterol ( 24S-OHC ) were elevated in EMCI and LMCI groups . Changes in gut metabolites occurred mainly in the EMCI group , in which several gut metabolites , including Procyanidin dimer B7 and Phorbol myristate , were significantly decreased . The m6A methylation landscape of EMCIs and LMCIs obviously differed from Controls . Hypomethylated mRNAs accounted for the majority and were mainly accompanied by downregulated mRNAs , which was consistent with the downregulated expression of the m6A writer methyltransferase-like 4 ( METTL4 ) . 27-OHC and 24S-OHC combined with various gut metabolites significantly distinguished between MCI subgroups from healthy controls ( EMCI/Control : AUC = 877 ; LMCI/Control : AUC = 952 ) . Heatmap revealed the correlation between Phorbol myristate and differentially m6A-methylated mRNAs . Differentially expressed gut metabolites and methylated mRNAs were commonly enriched in 34 KEGG metabolic pathways , including cholesterol metabolism and neurodegenerative disease-related pathways . CONCLUSIONS : Our study explored the altered oxysterols , gut metabolites , and m6A methylation and their associations in different stages of MCI . The potential function of aberrant gut metabolites in oxysterols and m6A methylation driving MCI progression warrants further mechanistic investigation .
BACKGROUND : Gynostemma pentaphyllum ( Thunb . ) , a traditional adaptogenic herb , is known for its bioactive components with potential anti-cancer properties . Acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) progression is significantly influenced by Feline McDonough Sarcoma ( FMS ) -like tyrosine kinase 3 ( FLT3 ) signaling , while Wilms ' tumor 1 ( WT1 ) serves as a key prognostic marker . This study investigates the anti-leukemia activities of active G . pentaphyllum leaf extracts and their components , focusing on the inhibition of FLT3 and WT1 activity . METHODS : G . pentaphyllum extracts were prepared through maceration , yielding three crude fractional extracts . The cytotoxicity of the extracts was screened against various leukemia cell lines using the 3- ( 4 , 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl ) -2 , 5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide ( MTT ) assay . The most cytotoxic extract was further fractionated and purified via column chromatography . The anti-proliferative and apoptotic induction activities of the active extract and its fraction were evaluated through cell cycle and apoptosis analyses using flow cytometry . Changes in mitochondrial membrane potential ( DeltaPsim ) were assessed by spectrofluorometry . To confirm anti-leukemia activity , the expression levels of FLT3 , WT1 and apoptotic-related protein were analyzed using Western blotting . The major active compounds within the active fractions were identified and characterized using Electrospray Ionization Mass Spectrometry ( ESI-MS ) and Nuclear Magnetic Resonance ( NMR ) spectroscopy . RESULTS : The ethyl acetate fractional extract ( F-EtOAc ) demonstrated the highest cytotoxicity , particularly against FLT3-overexpressing EoL-1 ( IC = 82 +/- 8 microg/mL ) and MV4-11 ( IC = 54 +/- 1 microg/mL ) AML cell lines . Fraction F10 was identified as the most active fraction , significantly inhibited FLT3 and WT1 protein expression and induced G0/G1 cell cycle arrest in a dose-dependent manner . Additionally , F10 induced dose-dependent apoptosis through disruption of DeltaPsim , p53 up-regulation and caspase-3 activation . Further purification of F10 identified dehydrovomifoliol as its major bioactive compound . CONCLUSION : These findings suggest that the ethyl acetate extract of G . pentaphyllum contains bioactive compounds with anti-leukemia potential , warranting further investigation to evaluate its efficacy against AML . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : While metabolic pathway alterations are linked to colorectal cancer ( CRC ) , the predictive value of pre-diagnostic metabolomic profiling in CRC risk assessment remains to be clarified . This study evaluated the predictive performance of a metabolomics risk panel ( MRP ) both independently and in combination with established risk factors . METHODS : We derived , internally validated ( IV ) , and externally validated ( EV ) a metabolomics risk panel ( MRP ) for CRC from data of the UK Biobank ( UKB ) and the German ESTHER cohort . Baseline blood samples were assessed for 249 metabolites using nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy analysis . We applied LASSO Cox proportional hazards regression to identify metabolites for inclusion in the MRP and evaluated the model performance using the concordance index ( C-index ) . We compared the performance of the MRP to an environmental risk panel ( ERP ; sex , age , body mass index , smoking status , and alcohol consumption ) and a genetic risk panel ( GRP ; polygenic risk score ) . RESULTS : The study included 154 , 892 participants of the UKB cohort ( mean age at baseline 5 years ; 5% female ) with 1879 incident CRC and 3242 participants of the ESTHER cohort ( mean age 5 years ; 2% female ) with 103 CRC cases . Twenty-three metabolites , primarily amino acid and lipid-related metabolites , were selected for the MRP , showing moderate predictive performance ( C-index 60 [IV] and 54 [EV] ) . The ERP and GRP showed superior performance , with C-index values of 73 ( IV ) and 69 ( EV ) . Adding the MRP to these risk models did not change the C-indices in both cohorts . CONCLUSIONS : Genetic and environmental risk information provided strong predictive accuracy for CRC risk , with no improvements from adding metabolomics data . These findings suggest that metabolomics data may have limited impact on enhancing established CRC risk models in clinical practice .
BACKGROUND : Cyanobacteria of the genera Synechocystis and Synechococcus have emerged as promising platforms for metabolic engineering endeavors aimed at converting carbon dioxide into valuable fuels and chemicals , thus addressing the pressing energy demand and mitigating global climate change . Notably , Synechocystis sp . strain PCC 6803 ( Synechocystis ) has been engineered to produce isobutanol ( IB ) and 3-methyl-1-butanol ( 3M1B ) via heterologous expression of alpha-ketoisovalerate decarboxylase ( Kivd ) . Despite these advances , the achieved IB/3M1B titers remain low . CRISPR interference ( CRISPRi ) , an emerging tool for targeted gene repression , has demonstrated success in various cellular systems to enhance biochemical productivity . RESULTS : In this study , we developed a dCas12a-mediated CRISPRi system ( CRISPRi-dCas12a ) that effectively blocked the transcriptional initiation/elongation of essential gene ( s ) , resulting in up to 60% gene repression in Synechocystis . Subsequently , the CRISPRi-dCas12a system was successfully integrated into an IB/3M1B producer strain , where it exhibited target gene repression under optimal cultivation conditions . To identify gene targets involved in metabolic pathways potentially limiting IB/3M1B biosynthesis , we initially designed a CRISPR RNA ( crRNA ) library targeting fifteen individual gene ( s ) , where repression of ten genes significantly increased IB/3M1B production per cell . Moreover , a synergetic effect was observed on IB/3M1B production by designing a single crRNA targeting multiple genes for simultaneous repression . A final strain HX106 , featuring dual repression of ppc and gltA , both involved in the TCA cycle , resulted in 6-fold and 8-fold improvement in IB and 3M1B production per cell , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings underscore the effectiveness of the CRISPRi-dCas12a system in Synechocystis for identifying competing pathways and redirecting carbon flux to enhance IB/3M1B production . Furthermore , this study established a solid groundwork for utilizing an expanded CRISPRi-crRNA library to undertake genome-wide exploration of potential competing pathways not only for IB/3M1B biosynthesis but also for other diverse biofuels and biochemical production processes .
BACKGROUND : Preeclampsia is linked to fetal growth restriction and may have long-term implications for the offspring . Despite its significance , the fundamental mechanisms remain inadequately elucidated . The objective of this investigation was to undertake an untargeted lipidomics analysis of umbilical cord plasma , with the intention of investigating lipidomic profile alterations in newborns of mothers with preeclampsia and evaluating the associations between lipidomic patterns and neonatal physical parameters at birth . METHODS : 25 newborns from mothers with preeclampsia ( PE group ) and 25 newborns from healthy mothers ( control group ) were involved in the present investigation . Untargeted lipidomics was performed using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry ( UPLC-MS/MS ) to contrast the lipid compositions present in umbilical cord plasma . Co-expression correlation analysis was performed to explore the relationships between lipidomic patterns and neonatal weight and length percentile at birth . RESULTS : Marked discrepancies in lipid metabolism profiles were detected in the comparison of the PE and control groups . In total , 364 separate lipids were noted , with AcylGlcADG ( 20 : 3-22 : 6-22 : 6 ) and GM3 ( d39 : 1 ) exhibiting the most significant decreases . Conversely , Cer-NS ( d20 : 1-24 : 0 ) and DGTS ( 2 : 0-19 : 0 ) displayed the most significant increases . The primary lipid metabolic pathways altered in newborns from mothers with preeclampsia were enriched in choline and glycerophospholipid metabolic processes . Additionally , 20 distinct lipids exhibited significant associations with neonatal birth weight percentile between the two groups , while 21 distinct lipids showed significant associations with neonatal birth length percentile . CONCLUSIONS : Lipid profile disorders were identified in the umbilical cord plasma of infants born to mothers with preeclampsia , and the metabolic disturbances identified in this group correlated with neonatal physical parameters at birth . These findings suggest that lipidomic disorders in newborns from preeclamptic mothers may correlate with intrauterine growth outcomes .
BACKGROUND : Chronic Kidney disorders is a global public health problem , including in women with polycystic ovarian syndrome ( PCOS ) , and is characterized by renal fibrosis , nephrotoxicity and glomerulonephritis , which increases the possibility of renal failure and organ transplant . Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 ( PDK4 ) has been implicated in mitochondria dysfunction , contributing to metabolic dysregulation in different organs , including kidney . Studies have shown that short chain fatty acids , particularly acetate , alleviates metabolic alterations in experimental models . Hence , the present study investigated the therapeutic potential of acetate on renometabolic disorders associated with experimental PCOS model . The study in addition elucidates the probable involvement of PDK4 in PCOS-associated renometabolic disorders . METHODS : Eight-week-old nulliparous female Wistar rats were randomly allotted into four groups ( n = 5 ) . Letrozole ( 1 mg/kg bw ) was used to induce PCOS for 3 weeks . Thereafter , acetate ( 200 mg/kg bw ) was administered for 6 weeks , uninterruptedly . Biochemical parameters from the plasma and renal tissue , as well as histology of ovaries were performed with appropriate methods . RESULTS : Experimental PCOS rats were characterized with elevated circulating testosterone and the presence of multiple ovarian cysts . In addition , rat with PCOS also manifested insulin resistance , increased plasma urea and creatinine levels , increased renal Gamma glutamyl transferase ( GGT ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , Nuclear factor -kappa B ( NF-kB ) , Tumor necrosis factor -alpha ( TNF-a ) , Transforming growth factor -beta 1 ( TGF-B1 ) , caspase-6 , Histone deacetylase 2 ( HDAC2 ) , while a decrease in glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase ( G6PD ) , reduced glutathione ( GSH ) , renal nitric oxide ( NO ) and endothelial nitric oxide synthesis ( eNOS ) , when compared with animals in the control group . These were associated with elevated level of PDK4 in the renal tissue . However , administration of acetate ameliorates these renal/metabolic abnormalities . CONCLUSION : Altogether , the results from the present study suggests that acetate ameliorates renal dysfunction in PCOS via downregulation of PDK
BACKGROUND : The Portfolio Diet is a plant-based dietary pattern of cholesterol-lowering foods that has demonstrated clinically meaningful reductions in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) and other cardiovascular risk factors . However , the Portfolio Diet has not been assessed in an ethnoculturally diverse population of young adults . OBJECTIVE : To examine the association of the Portfolio Diet Score ( PDS ) with LDL-C and other established cardiovascular risk factors in a young adult population . METHODS : This cross-sectional analysis included 1 , 507 men and women ( mean age , 23 +/- 3 years ) of diverse ethnocultural backgrounds from the Toronto Nutrigenomics and Health Study . Diet was assessed by a validated Toronto-modified Harvard 196-item food frequency questionnaire with adherence to the Portfolio Diet measured using the Portfolio Diet Score . Data were analyzed using multiple linear regressions with adjustment for potential confounders . Modeling analyses related LDL-C levels according to absolute adherence to the Portfolio Diet with cumulative LDL-C and onset of rising cardiovascular risk by age . RESULTS : Participants were Caucasian ( 49% ) , East Asian ( 34% ) , South Asian ( 11% ) , or other ( 7% ) with a mean LDL-C of 3 +/- 7mmol/L . A 1-point higher PDS and higher PDS tertiles were associated with lower LDL-C ( ss [95% CI] per 1-point : -009mmol/L [-016 , -002] , P = 013 ; P ( trend ) across tertiles =040 ) , non-HDL-C ( -010mmol/L [-018 , -002] , P = 014 ; P ( trend ) =028 ) , total cholesterol ( -011mmol/L [-019 , -003] , P = 011 ; P ( trend ) =038 ) , systolic blood pressure ( -150mmHg [-250 , -050] , P = 003 ; P ( trend ) <001 ) and diastolic blood pressure ( -133mmHg [-219 , -046] , P = 003 ; P ( trend ) <001 ) . Higher PDS tertiles were associated with lower triglycerides ( P ( trend ) =039 ) . A 1-point higher PDS was also associated with lower BMI ( -038 kg/m [-071 , -004] , P = 026 ) , waist circumference ( -092cm [-171 , -013] , P = 022 ) , body weight ( -124 kg [-229 , -019] , P = 021 ) and FMI ( -019 kg/m [-037 , -001] , P =039 ) . There was no association with HDL-C , CRP , or fasting glucose . Modeling analyses suggest that compared to low adherence , 50% and 100% adherence to the Portfolio Diet may delay the onset of rising cardiovascular risk by an estimated 6 and 13 years , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : Among young adults , the PDS was inversely associated with LDL-C and several other established cardiovascular risk factors . Early adherence to the Portfolio Diet may limit lifetime exposure to LDL-C and could delay the age at which cardiovascular events begin .
We read with great interest the recent publication by Marston and colleagues in Nature Medicine , entitled " Endothelial cell-related genetic variants identify LDL cholesterol-sensitive individuals who derive greater benefit from aggressive lipid lowering " ( issue 31 , March 2025 , pages 963-969 ) . Among their compelling findings , the association between the endothelial cell-specific polygenic risk score ( EC-PRS ) - which consists of SNPs associated with coronary artery disease - and a reduced risk of migraine headaches stood out , although not being the study ' s primary aim . Migraine imposes a substantial individual and socioeconomic burden worldwide . Beyond its neurological manifestations as a primary headache disorder , migraine has increasingly been recognized as an independent and underappreciated cardiovascular risk factor , linked to major cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events . However , the biological underpinnings of this association remain poorly understood , particularly since they do not appear to be mediated through traditional or atherosclerotic pathways , and they are not associated with established cardiovascular risk factors . In this Correspondence , we build upon the findings of Marston et al . and contextualize them within the broader framework of migraine as a neurovascular disorder . Drawing from translational evidence , we propose a conceptual model that integrates findings regarding EC-PRS into the complex biological interplay linking migraine and cardiovascular disease , including coronary artery disease . In doing so , we aim to advance our understanding of migraine not only as a neurological disorder but as a marker of vascular vulnerability with implications for future research regarding personalized cardiovascular prevention , including statin therapy .
Seasonal drought has hindered the sustainable growth of the Camellia oil tree industry . While brassinolide ( BL ) can mitigate drought stress in plants to some extent , the regulatory mechanisms underlying BL ' s effects in Camellia oil tree remain unclear . To investigate the mechanisms by which BL alleviates drought stress in Camellia oil tree , three-year-old ' Huashuo ' cutting seedling was exposed to three experimental treatments : CK ( normal watering ) , UW ( no watering ) , and BL ( no watering , sprayed with 1 mgL ( - 1 ) BL ) . Leaf anatomical observation , hormone quantification , and transcriptomic profiling were performed on leaf samples collected at days 2 , 4 , and 6 following treatments . The results demonstrated that ( i ) BL treatment significantly increased leaf and spongy tissue thickness ; ( ii ) BL reduced ABA and IAA levels in leaves under drought stress ; ( iii ) WGCNA identified three modules linked to ABA , IAA , and their corresponding hormone levels , with subsequent analysis infer NAC transcription factors ( TFs ) as the primary regulators in these modules . This study contributes to a deeper understanding of the role of BL in alleviating drought stress in tree crop and provides a fundamental reference for molecular breeding and genetic improvement of Camellia oil tree .
Despite undergoing castration , most individuals with prostate cancer ( PCa ) experience progression to castration-resistant PCa ( CRPC ) , in which the androgen receptor ( AR ) remains an important driver . Concurrent genetic alterations in SPOP and CHD1 define a unique subtype of PCa , but their interactions in tumor progression and therapy response remain unclear . Here , we provide genetic evidence supporting that CHD1 loss accelerates disease progression and confers resistance to castration in males with SPOP-mutated PCa . By leveraging genetic engineering and multiomics , we uncovered a noncanonical function of CHD1 in lipid metabolism reprogramming via repressing the SREBP2 transcriptome . Loss of CHD1 induces cholesterol production , supplies intratumoral androgen biosynthesis and enhances AR activity , leading to castration resistance of SPOP-mutated PCa . Combining anti-androgen therapy with cholesterol-lowering drugs showed synergistic and durable activity against CRPC harboring CHD1 loss and SPOP mutations . These findings advance our understanding of an emerging PCa subtype and offer biomarker-driven combinatorial treatment strategies for men with CRPC .
OBJECTIVE : The aim is to investigate the relationship between catecholamine levels and dyslipidemia in pheochromocytoma and paraganglioma ( PPGL ) patients . METHODS : Clinical data from 500 PPGL patients were retrospectively analyzed , including clinical demographics , genetic mutations , tumor size , preoperative catecholamine levels , and lipid profiles . Comparison of lipid levels before and after surgery were also conducted . RESULTS : A total of 500 patients were included : 238 males ( 6% ) and 262 females ( 4% ) , with an average age at diagnosis of 5 +/- 4 years . The prevalence of dyslipidemia among PPGL patients was 2% . In different catecholamine secretion types , norepinephrine ( NE ) secreting type group had significantly higher total cholesterol levels ( 82 [21 , 38] vs . 43 [78 , 92] mmol/L , p < 0167 ) compared to the non-secreting type group . However , there were no significant differences in triglycerides , high-density lipoprotein , and low-density lipoprotein among different secretion types . This study showed the first detailed analysis of the distribution of elevated total cholesterol in different age groups and BMI categories . Patients with overweight had the highest rate of elevated total cholesterol ( 5% ) . Additionally , within different age brackets , individuals aged 51-60 years displayed the highest rate of abnormal total cholesterol levels . Comparison of preoperative and postoperative biochemical outcomes in 69 patients with PPGLs showed that surgical resection effectively reduced catecholamine levels and improved total cholesterol levels . CONCLUSIONS : The incidence of dyslipidemia is high among patients with PPGL , and there exists strong link between lipid metabolism and catecholamine secretion , thus highlighting the importance of closely monitoring lipid levels in patients with PPGL .
Optical imaging provides real-time visualization of tissues and cells at high spatial and temporal resolutions through techniques such as fluorescence microscopy , optical coherence tomography and photoacoustic imaging . However , overcoming light scattering , caused by mismatches in the refractive indices of tissue components such as water and lipids , still represents a major challenge , particularly when imaging through the thicker biological tissues of living animals . Despite advances in deep-tissue imaging , many optical methods struggle to achieve diffraction-limited resolution at depth or are unsuitable for use in live animals . Here we introduce a noninvasive approach to achieving transient and reversible optical transparency in live mice using absorbing dye molecules , using tartrazine as a representative example . Rooted in the fundamental physics of light-matter interactions , this approach enables reversible optical transparency in live animals and can be further applied ex vivo in freshly dissected tissues . In this Protocol , we detail the procedures for visualizing in vivo internal organs and muscle sarcomeres in the mouse abdomen and hindlimb through their respective transparency windows , showcasing a versatile approach for a variety of optical imaging applications in live animals . The entire protocol for an in vivo application can be implemented in just over 2 weeks by users with expertise in optical imaging and animal handling .
PI3Kgamma is a lipid kinase that is expressed primarily in leukocytes and plays a significant role in tumors , inflammation , and autoimmune diseases . Consequently , considerable attention has been given to the development of pharmacological inhibitors of PI3Kgamma . Recently , machine learning-based virtual screening approaches have been increasingly applied in new drug discovery research , potentially providing innovative strategies for the development of PI3Kgamma inhibitors . Thus , in this study , we developed a naive Bayesian classification ( NBC ) model that integrates molecular descriptors , molecular fingerprints , molecular docking , and pharmacophore models for virtual screening of the PI3Kgamma protein . The validation results indicated that the optimal model demonstrated significant potential for differentiating between active and inactive compounds , as well as a reliable ability to identify true PI3Kgamma inhibitors with defined biological activity . Additionally , the optimal NBC model provided favorable and unfavorable fragments for PI3Kgamma inhibitors , which will help guide the design and discovery of novel PI3Kgamma inhibitors . Finally , the optimal NBC model was employed to perform virtual screening on the ChEMBL database , resulting in the identification of several compounds with high potential as PI3Kgamma inhibitors . We anticipate that the developed machine learning-based virtual screening approach will offer valuable insights and guidance for the development of novel PI3Kgamma inhibitors .
The burden of cardiovascular disease is rising in the Asia-Pacific region , in contrast to falling cardiovascular disease mortality rates in Europe and North America . Here we perform quantification of 883 metabolites by untargeted mass spectroscopy in 8 , 124 Asian adults and investigate their relationships with carotid intima media thickness , a marker of atherosclerosis . Plasma concentrations of 3beta-hydroxy-5-cholestenoate ( 3BH5C ) , a cholesterol metabolite , were inversely associated with carotid intima media thickness , and Mendelian randomization studies supported a causal relationship between 3BH5C and coronary artery disease . The observed effect size was 5- to 6-fold higher in Asians than Europeans . Colocalization analyses indicated the presence of a shared causal variant between 3BH5C plasma levels and messenger RNA and protein expression of ferredoxin-1 ( FDX1 ) , a protein that is essential for sterol and bile acid synthesis . We validated FDX1 as a regulator of 3BH5C synthesis in hepatocytes and macrophages and demonstrated its role in cholesterol efflux in macrophages and aortic smooth muscle cells , using knockout and overexpression models .
Oxygen attachment dissociation ( OAD ) is a tandem mass spectrometry ( MS/MS ) technique for annotating the positions of double bonds ( C=C ) in complex lipids . Although OAD has been used for untargeted lipidomics , its availability has been limited to the positive ion mode , requiring the independent use of a collision-induced dissociation ( CID ) method . In this study , we demonstrated the OAD MS/MS technique in the negative-ion mode for profiling phosphatidylserines , phosphatidylglycerols , phosphatidylinositols , and sulfatides , where the fragmentation mechanism remained consistent with that in the positive ion mode . Furthermore , we proposed optimal conditions for the simultaneous acquisition of CID- and OAD-specific fragment ions , termed OAciD , where oxygen atoms and hydroxy radicals facilitate C=C position-specific fragmentation , while residual water vapor induces cleavage of low-energy covalent bonds as observed in CID . Finally , theoretical fragment ions were implemented in MS-DIAL 5 to accelerate C=C position-resolved untargeted lipidomics . The OAciD methodology was used to illuminate brain region-specific marmoset lipidomes with C=C positional information , including the estimation of C=C positional isomer ratios . We also characterized the profiles of polyunsaturated fatty acid-containing lipids , finding that lipids containing omega-3 fatty acids were enriched in the cerebellum , whereas those containing omega-6 fatty acids were more abundant in the hippocampus and frontal lobe .
Adipose tissue ( AT ) is a complex connective tissue with a high relative proportion of adipocytes , which are specialized cells with the ability to store lipids in large droplets . AT is found in multiple discrete depots throughout the body , where it serves as the primary repository for excess calories . In addition , AT has an important role in functions as diverse as insulation , immunity and regulation of metabolic homeostasis . The Human Cell Atlas Adipose Bionetwork was established to support the generation of single-cell atlases of human AT as well as the development of unified approaches and consensus for cell annotation . Here , we provide a first roadmap from this bionetwork , including our suggested cell annotations for humans and mice , with the aim of describing the state of the field and providing guidelines for the production , analysis , interpretation and presentation of AT single-cell data .
Metabolic reprogramming determines gammadelta T cell fate during thymic development ; however , the metabolic requirements of interleukin ( IL ) -17A-producing gammadelta T cells ( gammadeltaT17 cells ) under psoriatic conditions are unclear . Combining high-throughput techniques , including RNA sequencing , SCENITH , proteomics and stable isotope tracing , we demonstrated that psoriatic inflammation caused gammadeltaT17 cells to switch toward aerobic glycolysis . Under psoriatic conditions , gammadeltaT17 cells upregulated ATP-citrate synthase to convert citrate to acetyl-CoA , linking carbohydrate metabolism and fatty acid synthesis ( FAS ) . Accordingly , we used a pharmacological inhibitor , Soraphen A , which blocks acetyl-CoA carboxylase ( ACC ) , to impair FAS in gammadeltaT17 cells , reducing their intracellular lipid stores and ability to produce IL-17A under psoriatic conditions in vitro . We pinpointed the pathogenic role of ACC1 in gammadeltaT17 cells in vivo by genetic ablation , ameliorating inflammation in a psoriatic mouse model . Furthermore , ACC inhibition limited human IL-17A-producing gammadeltaT17 cells . Targeting ACC1 to attenuate pathogenic gammadeltaT17 cell function has important implications for psoriasis management .
Neospora caninum , a pathogen associated with abortion in pregnant cattle and motor nerve disorders in dogs , poses a substantial threat . Cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase ( PKG ) functions as a central signal transduction hub in apicomplexan parasites . However , PKG has not been characterized in N . caninum , and its targets and pathways controlled by PKG remain unknown . Using a mini auxin-inducible degron system ( mAID ) , we knocked down PKG in N . caninum , demonstrating its indispensable role in tachyzoite invasion and egress from host cells . PKG promotes microneme secretion and enhances tachyzoite gliding motility by elevating intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) levels ( [Ca ( 2+ ) ] ( i ) ) . Phosphoproteomics identified 1125 proteins as potential downstream targets of PKG , showing significantly reduced phosphorylation after treatment with the PKG inhibitor MBP146- These proteins are involved in signal transduction , transcriptional regulation , lipid transport and metabolism , vesicle transport , and ion transport . Additionally , CACNAP , a calcium channel-associated protein that facilitates calcium influx at the plasma membrane , plays a supportive role in the egress process of N . caninum . These findings underscore the importance of PKG and its downstream molecules in regulating egress , offering novel insights into the mechanisms underlying the activation of [Ca ( 2+ ) ] ( i ) .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic associated steatohepatitis ( MASH ) represents a severe subtype of metabolic associated fatty liver disease ( MASLD ) , with an increased risk of progression to cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma . The nomenclature shift from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) /nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) to MASH/MASLD , underscores the pivotal role of metabolic factors in disease progression . Diagnosis of MASH currently hinges on liver biopsy , a procedure whose invasive nature limits its clinical utility . This study aims to identify and validate metabolism-related genes ( MRGs ) markers for the non-invasive diagnosis of MASH . METHODS : This study extracted multiple datasets from the GEO database to identify metabolism-related differentially expressed genes ( MRDEGs ) . Protein-Protein Interaction ( PPI ) network and machine learning algorithms , including Least Absolute Shrinkage and Selection Operator ( LASSO ) regression , Support Vector Machine-Recursive Feature Elimination ( SVM-RFE ) , and Random Forest ( RF ) , were applied to screen for signature MRDEGs . The diagnostic performance of these MRDEGs was evaluated using the Receiver Operating Characteristic ( ROC ) curve and further validated using independent external datasets . Additionally , enrichment analysis was performed to uncover key driver pathways in MASH . The infiltration levels of various immune cell types were assessed using single sample Gene Set Enrichment Analysis ( ssGSEA ) . Finally , Spearman correlation analysis confirmed the association between signature genes and immune cells . RESULTS : We successfully identified seven signature MRDEGs , including CYP7A1 , GCK , AKR1B10 , HPRT1 , GPD1 , FADS2 , and ENO3 , through PPI network analysis and machine learning algorithms . The gene model displayed exceptional diagnostic performance in the training and validation cohorts , as evidenced by the area under ROC curve ( AUC ) exceeding Further enrichment analysis revealed that signature MEDEGs were primarily involved in multiple biological pathways related to glucose and lipid metabolism . Immune infiltration analysis indicated a significant increase in the infiltration levels of activated CD8 T cells , gamma-delta T cells , natural killer cells , and CD56bright NK cells in patients with MASH . CONCLUSION : This study successfully identified seven signature MRDEGs as significant diagnostic biomarkers for MASH . The findings not only offer novel strategies for non-invasive diagnosis of MASH but also highlight the substantial role of immune cell infiltration in the progression of MASH .
Edaravone dexborneol ( EDB ) is widely recognized for its anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties and is clinically applied in the treatment of acute cerebral infarction . Ferroptosis is a critical process in the pathophysiology of brain injury following intracerebral hemorrhage ( ICH ) . However , it remains unclear whether EDB can ameliorate ICH through the modulation of ferroptosis . This study aimed to evaluate the function and mechanism of EDB in treatment of ICH . With a male rat ICH model , animal behavior tests , histopathological staining , magnetic resonance imaging and evans blue staining were used to evaluate the neural protective function of EDB on ICH rats . The potential molecular mechanism was investigated using RNA sequencing . With the administration of Fer-1 , a range of ferroptosis-related biomarkers , including Fe ( 2+ ) , 4-hydroxynonenal , malondialdehyde , etc . , were analyzed to ascertain whether EDB confers neuroprotective effects through the modulation of P53/GPX4 pathways to inhibit ferroptosis . Finally , the findings were further corroborated using an in vitro ICH model with a P53 inhibitor . EDB has the potential to markedly enhance nerve and motor function , mitigate pathological damage , facilitate hematoma clearance , and repair BBB injury in ICH rats . KEGG analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes were associated with signaling pathways , including P53 and ferroptosis . Both EDB and Fer-1 substantially reduced the concentrations of Fe ( 2+ ) , 4-hydroxynonenal , malondialdehyde , increased the amount of anti-oxidants , decreased the expression of P53 , and concurrently upregulated the expression of GPX Besides , the P53 inhibitor PFT-alpha was observed to significantly reduce the levels of 4-HNE and lipid peroxides , while concurrently increasing the expression of GPX This investigation has shed light on the crucial neuroprotective role of EDB by regulating ferroptosis in ICH disease , which provided a theoretical basis for the clinical application of EDB in the treatment of ICH .
This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists ( GLP-1RAs ) when compared to metformin and placebo in the management of body weight , glucose homeostasis and hormone levels in women polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) . A systematic search of " PubMed " , " EMBASE " , " Cochrane Library " , " Web of Science " and " Google Scholar " was conducted up to October 2024 for randomized controlled trials involving adult women with PCOS treated with GLP-1RAs compared to metformin or placebo . The primary outcomes were changes in body mass index ( BMI ) , body weight , waist circumference ( WC ) , waist-to-hip ratio ( WHR ) and abdominal girth ( AG ) . Secondary outcomes included glucose homeostasis ( fasting glucose , fasting insulin , OGTT results and HOMA-IR ) , hormone levels ( DHEAS , SHBG , total and free testosterone and FAI ) , lipid profiles ( total cholesterol , HDL , LDL and triglycerides ) and safety . GLP-1RAs significantly reduced BMI , body weight , WC , WHR and AG ( P < 0001 in all cases ) . For glucose homeostasis , GLP-1RAs significantly reduced fasting insulin , glucose level at 2 h after OGTT , and HOMA-IR . There was also a reduction in HDL . All the other parameters measured were unchanged . In addition , GLP-1RAs increased nausea ( P = 02 ) , vomiting ( 04 ) and dizziness ( 03 ) . GLP-1RAs effectively reduced body weight , BMI and insulin resistance in patients with PCOS , although they were accompanied by nausea , vomiting and dizziness . Further studies are needed to explore their long-term effects on glucose homeostasis and lipid profiles .
The study of retinal hemodynamics is pivotal for understanding both physiological and pathological conditions affecting the eye . Microcirculation in the retina exhibits unique rheological properties and flow dynamics compared to larger vessels . This computational study investigates the possible impact of elevated blood lipids on retinal vascular flow characteristics , focusing on viscosity increases and potential blockage effects . We utilized computational fluid dynamics to solve the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations for an image-based retinal vessel network under healthy conditions . Our findings reveal that arterial vessels have a higher average mainstream flow velocity than venous vessels , however , the latter experience higher wall shear stress ( WSS ) in those fine branch vessels , which are far away from the optical disc . Notably , vessels with more branches in the venous network are subjected to greater WSS . Then , we simulated the effect of elevated blood lipids by increasing venous viscosity by about 10-20% , which led to a proportional rise in WSS . Furthermore , we explored the potential blockage that may caused by elevated blood lipids , leading to localized increases in velocity and WSS . This study provides insights into the hemodynamic alterations induced by hyperlipidemia , highlighting the importance of considering systemic health parameters in ocular disease research and treatment .
Vascular inflammation plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic plaques , driving their progression from a stable to an unstable phenotype . Previous research has identified a relationship between peri-coronary adipose tissue ( PCAT ) attenuation , as assessed by coronary computed tomography angiography ( CCTA ) , and the degree of coronary inflammation , which is associated with an elevated risk of cardiovascular mortality . Nevertheless , the interplay between PCAT attenuation , as determined by CCTA , and plaque characterization via optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) , alongside clinical outcomes , remains inadequately explored . In this study , we retrospectively analyzed data from 111 patients with coronary artery disease who underwent a sequential diagnostic workup comprising CCTA , coronary angiography ( CAG ) , and OCT from January 2022 to May Patients were stratified into two groups based on a PCAT attenuation threshold of -1 Hounsfield units ( HU ) : a high-PCAT attenuation group ( n = 39 ) and a low-PCAT attenuation group ( n = 72 ) . The cohort was further divided into major adverse cardiac event ( MACE ) and non-MACE groups , depending on whether a MACE occurred during a median follow-up period of 504 days . Compared to the low-PCAT attenuation group , patients in the high-PCAT attenuation group were younger ( 77 +/- 33 vs . 07 +/- 88 ; p < 028 ) and exhibited a higher incidence of acute coronary syndrome ( ACS ) ( 8% vs . 9% ; p = 033 ) . Additionally , lipid-rich plaques ( 6% vs . 8% ; p = 001 ) , macrophages ( 5% vs . 4% ; p = 004 ) , thin-cap fibrous atherosclerotic plaques ( TCFA ) ( 6% vs . 0% ; p = 044 ) , and red blood clots ( 3% vs . 3% ; p = 027 ) were more prevalent in the high-attenuation group . Multivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that high PCAT attenuation was an independent predictor of lipid plaques , macrophage presence , and TCFA . During the follow-up period , 22 patients ( 8% ) experienced a primary clinical endpoint event . Patients in the MACE group demonstrated higher levels of PCAT attenuation compared to those in the non-MACE group ( - 67 [- 75 , - 59] HU vs . - 67 [- 67 , - 50] HU , p = 037 ) . Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression modeling further substantiated that elevated PCAT attenuation was independently associated with an increased risk of MACE . In conclusion , the high-attenuation group exhibited more OCT-detected features indicative of vulnerable plaques and a higher frequency of MACE events relative to the low-attenuation group . These findings suggest a significant association between elevated vascular inflammation , as reflected by PCAT attenuation , vulnerable plaque characteristics identified by OCT , and poorer clinical outcomes .
Acute pancreatitis ( AP ) is a common disease , and severe acute pancreatitis ( SAP ) has a high morbidity and mortality rate . Early recognition of SAP is crucial for prognosis . This study aimed to develop a novel liquid neural network ( LNN ) model for predicting SAP . This study retrospectively analyzed the data of AP patients admitted to the Second Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medical University between January 2020 and June Data imbalance was dealt with by data preprocessing and using the synthetic minority oversampling technique ( SMOTE ) . A new feature selection method was designed to optimize model performance . Logistic regression ( LR ) , decision tree ( DCT ) , random forest ( RF ) , Extreme Gradient Boosting ( XGBoost ) , and LNN models were built . The model ' s performance was evaluated by calculating the area under the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve ( AUC ) and other statistical metrics . In addition , SHapley Additive exPlanations ( SHAP ) analysis was used to interpret the prediction results of the LNN model . The LNN model performed best in predicting AP severity , with an AUC value of 9659 and accuracy , precision , recall , F1 score , and specificity higher than SHAP analysis revealed key predictors , such as calcium level , amylase activity , and percentage of basophils , which were strongly associated with AP severity . As an emerging machine learning tool , the LNN model has demonstrated excellent performance and potential in AP severity prediction . The results of this study support the idea that LNN models can be applied to early severity assessment of AP patients in a clinical setting , which can help optimize treatment plans and improve patient prognosis .
Date palm ( Phoenix dactylifera L . ) is a globally edible fruit and a traditional dietary component in various cultures . The fruit ' s fleshy part is consumed for its nutritional value , while the seeds are discarded or valorized for oil production and as a coffee substitute . The current study aimed to investigate date seeds ' metabolome , in addition to macro- and micro-elements composition within12 major Egyptian cultivars ( cvs . ) for the first time using gas chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . Post-silylation GC-MS analysis and headspace coupled with solid-phase microextraction ( HS-SPME ) were used for nutrients and aroma profiling in roasted seeds , respectively . Furthermore , multivariate data analyses were employed for samples classification and markers identification via principal component analysis ( PCA ) and orthogonal projection to least square discriminant analysis ( OPLS-DA ) . Models are further validated by permutation test . Moreover , absolute quantification of potential markers was attempted based on reference standards A total of 101 and 65 nutrient and aroma metabolites were annotated , respectively . Fatty acids/esters ( 38 peaks ) , sugars , organic acids , sugar alcohols , steroids/triterpenoids , alcohols and aldehydes , in addition to flavonoids and phenolic acids were identified as major components in GC-MS post-silylation platform . ' ' Khalas ' ' cv . seed appeared the most nutritive being enriched in sugars and fatty acids/esters . Moreover , date seed volatiles from different cvs . were dominated by fatty acids/esters ( 19 peaks ) , esters , and phenols/ethers . Anethole ( peak 47 ) was the most abundant at 1-3% of seeds contributing to their unique aroma , especially ' ' Barhi ' ' a premium date cv . PCA score plot of primary metabolites ' dataset revealed for 1-monopalmitin and monostearin as potential markers for ' ' Aref ' ' and ' ' Khalas ' ' . Furthermore , ' ' Barhi ' ' , ' ' Omeldehn ' ' , and ' ' Lolo ' ' cvs . showed comparable aroma profile and in partial agreement with nutrient results . OPLS-DA model revealed that anethole , estragole , methyl esters of dodecanoic acid and octanoic acid were characteristic in case of ' ' Barhi ' ' cv . which are likely to impart a fine aroma and flavor . With regards to minerals , ' ' Zamli ' ' , ' ' Barhi ' ' , and ' ' Hasawi ' ' cvs . were most rich in calcium , copper , and selenium , respectively . This study offers new perspectives for the phytochemical makeup and valorization potentials of date palm seeds . Fatty acids/esters and sugars were the major components in date palm seeds found enriched in ' ' Khalas ' ' cv , while anethole , estragole , methyl esters of dodecanoic acid and octanoic acid were potential markers of ' ' Barhi ' ' cultivar . Such extensive profiling identified premium cvs . to be considered for food applications .
To investigate the therapeutic effect of exogenous tumor necrosis factor-stimulating protein 6 ( TSG-6 ) on lung injury in newborn rats induced by intrauterine infection , and to analyze its underlying mechanism . Twelve pregnant rats were randomly divided into a blank control group , a negative control group , a model group , and a TSG-6 treatment group . The blank control group was not modeled . The negative control group was injected with normal saline ( NS ) intraperitoneally on gestation day ( E ) 14 , and the remaining two groups were intraperitoneally injected with lipopolysaccharide at 6 mg/kg x body weight ( kg ) on E14 to establish the intrauterine infection model . The negative control and model groups were injected with NS via the tail vein on E16 , and the TSG-6 treatment group was injected with TSG-6 at 25 mg/kg x body weight ( kg ) via the tail vein on E After delivery , the placentas of pregnant rats and the right lungs of newborn rats on postnatal day ( P ) 3 , 7 , and 14 were stained with hematoxylin-eosin to observe the inflammatory infiltration of placentas , the pathology of the lungs , and the radical alveolar count ( RAC ) was performed . The left lung tissues of newborn rats were collected on P3 , P7d , and P Using Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) kits to measure the levels of TSG-6 , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) , and Interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) in lung tissues of newborn rats . Compared with the model group , the growth of the control group and the TSG-6 treatment group was better , the bronchial epithelial structure of the control and TSG-6 treatment group was intact , and the epithelial cells were normal and closely arranged . The levels of RAC , VEGF , and TSG-6 in the TSG-6 treatment group were significantly increased , and the levels of IL-6 and TNF-alpha were significantly decreased at the early stage of life compared with the model group ; the differences were statistically significant ( P < 05 ) . TSG-6 intervention can reduce the inflammatory response of pregnant rats with intrauterine infection and significantly improve the pathological degree of lung injury in newborn rats caused by intrauterine infection . Its mechanism may be related to promoting the increase of TSG-6 and VEGF levels , regulating the balance of inflammatory factors and promoting tissue repair .
B cells engage in anti-tumor immunity but how they contribute to cancer suppression remains unclear . We report that inhibiting plasma cell differentiation either in IgMi mice lacking Igh elements needed for antibody secretion or in mice with B cell-specific knockout of Blimp-1 ( Blimp-1 BcKO ) promotes rather than inhibits antitumor immunity and increases numbers of activated B cells . Deficiency of Blimp-1 in tumor-infiltrating B cells generates a unique transcription profile associated with expansion of mutated clones targeting cognate tumor cells . Major histocompatibility complex class II ( MHC II ) is required for anti-tumor efficacy . Blimp-1-deficient B cells have increased expression of CD80 and CD86 costimulatory molecules that enhance effector T cell function . The Blimp-1 inhibitor valproic acid suppresses tumor growth in a B cell-dependent manner . Thus , inhibition of plasma cell differentiation results in enhanced tumor-specific antigen presentation by B cells and thereby tumor repression , suggesting a potential avenue of immunotherapy against cancer .
Postmenopausal osteoporosis ( PMOP ) is a condition in women caused by estrogen deficiency , characterized by reduced bone mass and increased fracture risk . Fatty acid-binding protein 4 ( FABP4 ) , a lipid-binding protein involved in metabolism and inflammation , has emerged as a key regulator in metabolic disorders and bone resorption ; however , its direct role in PMOP remains unclear . Here , we show that serum FABP4 levels in PMOP patients negatively correlate with bone mineral density , a trend also observed in ovariectomized mice . FABP4 promotes osteoclast formation and bone resorption without affecting osteoblast differentiation . The FABP4 inhibitor BMS309403 suppresses osteoclast differentiation by modulating calcium signaling and inhibiting the Ca ( 2+ ) -Calcineurin-NFATc1 pathway . Oral BMS309403 increases bone mineral density in ovariectomized mice , though less effectively than alendronate . Notably , bone-targeted delivery of BMS309403 achieves comparable efficacy to alendronate . In this work , we demonstrate that FABP4 is a critical mediator in PMOP and that its inhibition offers a promising therapeutic strategy .
Aquaporin 9 ( AQP9 ) expression is significantly elevated in vulnerable carotid plaque ( VCP ) . Hence , we probed the mechanism of AQP9 in VCP formation . The VCP model was established in ApoE ( -/- ) C57BL/6 mice . Dataset GSE163154 was analyzed by R software . Human aortic endothelial cells ( HAECs ) were incubated with 50 microg/mL oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL ) and 20 mM l- ( + ) -lactic acid for 24 h . Mice ( AQP9 overexpression plasmid ) and HAECs ( AQP9 overexpression/dynamin-related protein 1 [DRP1] silencing plasmids ) were infected by lentivirus . Mouse plasma lipid level was estimated . The histopathological condition of model mice was observed by oil red lipid staining , hematoxylin-eosin ( H&E ) staining , and Masson staining . Levels of AQP9 and DRP1 in model mice and HAECs were quantified by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction ( qRT-PCR ) . Levels of AQP9 , DRP1 , and mitochondrial fission-/endothelium-mesenchymal transition ( EndMT ) -related factors in model mice and HAECs were assayed by western blot . Lactate level in model mice was detected . Promoter histone lactylation level of DRP1 was measured by chromatin immunoprecipitation ( ChIP ) . Behaviors of HAECs were tested by cell counting kit-8 ( CCK-8 ) , colony formation test , and scratch test . AQP9 was highly expressed in intraplaque hemorrhage patients . AQP9 overexpression promoted levels of DRP1 , lactate , histone lactylation , mitochondrial fission factor , vimentin , and N-cadherin , while inhibiting vascular endothelial ( VE ) -cadherin level and plaque stability in model mice and facilitating viability , proliferation , and migration of HAECs . DRP1 silencing reversed the impacts of AQP9 overexpression on cell viability , proliferation , migration , and levels of mitochondrial fission-/EndMT-related factors in HAECs . AQP9 enhances DRP1-mediated mitochondrial fission by lactate and thus promotes EndMT to exacerbate the VCP formation .
BACKGROUND : Familial hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) is a genetic disorder of lipoprotein metabolism . Large rearrangements such as deletions or duplications of 1 or more exons are estimated to comprise around 5% of mutations in LDLR genes causing FH . Patients with large rearrangement of LDLR often present more severe phenotypes , warranting early detection and intensive lipid lowering treatment . This study aimed to characterize the large rearrangements of LDLR gene in Taiwanese FH patients . METHODS : In the Taiwan FH registry , large deletions and duplications of the LDLR gene were screened using multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification ( MLPA ) analysis . Precise genomic breakpoints and recombination mechanisms of the large rearrangements were analyzed using polymerase chain reaction and sequencing . RESULTS : From January 2017 to June 2024 , abnormal MLPA results were detected in 17 probands . Ten large LDLR rearrangements were identified in 12 probands , including 1 duplication and 9 deletions . Six rearrangements were attributed to nonallelic homologous recombination ( NAHR ) , while 4 were nonhomologous end joining ( NHEJ ) . The precise LDLR breakpoint could not be determined in 1 proband with exon 1-6 duplication . The remaining 4 probands with abnormal MLPA patterns were determined as false positives , possibly due to the interference of single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) near the 3 ' end binding site of the MLPA probe . CONCLUSIONS : Ten novel LDLR large rearrangements were identified in the Taiwan FH registry . The presence of SNPs near the 3 ' end binding site of the MLPA probe may cause abnormal results , highlighting the importance of precise diagnostic strategies for detecting LDLR large rearrangements .
BACKGROUND : Hypercholesterolemia is associated with endothelial dysfunction . While good evidence exists for the beneficial endothelial effects of statins , less is known on the new class of proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( PCSK9 ) inhibitors . OBJECTIVE : The goal of this study was to study the effects of PCSK9 inhibitors on markers of micro- and macrovascular endothelial function and arterial stiffness . METHODS : In this prospective observational study , cardiovascular high-risk patients were measured for retinal microvascular function , brachial artery flow-mediated dilatation ( FMD ) , and arterial stiffness ( pulse wave velocity [PWV] ; augmentation index [AI] ) at baseline and after 3 and 12 months of PCSK9 inhibitor therapy . The primary endpoint was the change in flicker-induced dilatation of retinal arterioles ( FID ( art ) ) after 12 months compared to baseline . RESULTS : The final study cohort included 42 patients ( mean age 56 +/- 12 years ; 74% male ; 76% coronary artery disease ) . Low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol was reduced from 8 +/- 2 to 8 +/- 9 mmol/L after 12 months . Retinal microvascular function ( FID ( art ) 6% +/- 6% at baseline vs 4% +/- 3% after 12 months , p = . 01 ) and AI ( 24% +/- 9% at baseline vs 21% +/- 12% after 12 months , p = . 03 ) improved significantly on PCSK9 inhibitor therapy . No significant changes were observed for FMD , PWV , and other retinal vascular measurements . CONCLUSION : In cardiovascular high-risk patients , PCSK9 inhibition is associated with an improvement of retinal flicker-induced dilatation and AI , thereby linking LDL lowering with improvement of microvascular function .
BACKGROUND : The apolipoprotein L1 ( APOL1 ) G1 and G2 gene variants , highly prevalent among the African American population ( rare in other racial groups ) , are linked to increased risk of kidney disease , sepsis , and potentially coronary heart disease ( CHD ) . Their role in tobacco-related CHD remains unclear . OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of APOL1 risk variants on the association between tobacco smoking and prevalent CHD in African American adults . METHODS : We conducted a cross-sectional study involving 519 African American adults recruited through the University of California San Francisco Lipid Clinic . Using multivariable logistic regression , we assessed the association between tobacco smoking and CHD , overall and with its most severe subtype , myocardial infarction ( MI ) , among all participants and APOL1 genotype subgroups . RESULTS : Among participants , 41% were current ( 14% ) or former ( 27% ) smokers , 54% carried APOL1 risk variants ( 1 or 2 alleles ) , and 28% had CHD , including 16% having MI . Current smokers with APOL1 risk variants had 3 times higher odds of CHD compared to nonsmokers ( 95% CI : 6 , 8 ) , with the strongest effect observed in those with 2 risk alleles ( odds ratio [OR] : 3 , CI : 1 , 6 ) and a substantial effect in carriers of a single risk allele ( OR : 2 , CI : 5 , 2 ) . Among non-carriers , current smoking was not significantly associated with CHD ( OR : 3 ) . A similar trend was observed for MI . Former smoking was associated with CHD ( OR : 0 ) , independent of APOL1 genotype . CONCLUSION : African American smokers with APOL1 G1 and/or G2 risk variants may be at greater risk of CHD ; this relationship appears to follow an additive model .
Extreme hypertriglyceridemia , defined as triglyceride ( TG ) levels >/=1000 mg/dL , is almost always indicative of chylomicronemia . The current diagnostic approach categorizes individuals with chylomicronemia into familial chylomicronemia syndrome ( FCS ; prevalence 1-10 per million ) , caused by the biallelic combination of pathogenic variants that impair the lipolytic action of lipoprotein lipase ( LPL ) , or multifactorial chylomicronemia syndrome ( MCS , 1 in 500 ) . A pragmatic framework should emphasize the severity of the phenotype and the risk of complications . Therefore , we endorse the term " persistent chylomicronemia ( PC ) " defined as TG >/=1000 mg/dL in more than half of the measurements to encompass patients with the highest risk for pancreatitis , regardless of their genetic predisposition . We suggest classification of PC into 4 subtypes : genetic FCS , clinical FCS , PC with " alarm " features , and PC without alarm features . Although patients with FCS most likely have PC , the vast majority with PC do not have genetic FCS . Proposed alarm features are : ( a ) history of recurrent TG-induced acute pancreatitis , ( b ) recurrent hospitalizations for severe abdominal pain without another identified cause , ( c ) childhood pancreatitis , ( d ) family history of TG-induced pancreatitis , and/or ( e ) postheparin LPL activity <20% of normal value . Alarm features constitute the strongest risk factors for future acute pancreatitis risk . Patients with PC and alarm features have very high risk of pancreatitis , comparable to that in patients with FCS . Effective , innovative treatments for PC , like apolipoprotein C-III inhibitors , have been developed . Combined with lifestyle modifications , these agents markedly lower TG levels and risk of pancreatitis in the very-high-risk groups , irrespective of the monogenic etiology . Pragmatic definitions , education , and focus on patients with PC , specifically those with alarm features , could help mitigate the risk of acute pancreatitis and other complications .
BACKGROUND : Angiopoietin-like protein 4 ( ANGPTL4 ) inhibition is a promising approach to manage atherogenic dyslipidaemia and residual atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) risk . Human ANGPTL4 loss-of-function ( LoF ) is associated with reduced plasma triglyceride ( TG ) , remnant cholesterol ( RC ) , and apolipoprotein B ( ApoB ) levels , and lower risk of type 2 diabetes and ASCVD , without observable safety concerns . However , development of ANGPTL4 inhibitors has been stalled by adverse findings in Angptl4 knockout mice fed a high-saturated-fat diet ( HSFD ) , which show lipid accumulation in mesenteric lymph nodes ( MLNs ) , systemic inflammation , severe adverse clinical signs , and reduced survival . METHODS : Here , we present the development and preclinical characterisation of MAR001 , a humanised monoclonal ANGPTL4 inhibitor antibody . We assessed single-dose MAR001 efficacy in hypertriglyceridemic ( HTG ) non-human primates ( NHPs , n = 4 ) , and safety in two NHP toxicology studies : a 15-week subchronic study with a standard or HSFD ( n = 36 ) , and a 9-month chronic study exclusively on an HSFD ( n = 24 ) . FINDINGS : In HTG monkeys , single-dose MAR001 treatment reduced plasma TG by up to 58% , non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol by 38% , ApoB by 30% , and RC by 59% . In safety studies , MAR001 was well tolerated without clinically adverse findings with either diet . Animals fed an HSFD exhibited minimal to moderate foamy macrophage formation in MLNs , but importantly , these histological findings did not progress to degeneration , necrosis , inflammation , fibrosis , or other reactive changes , and with no evidence of systemic effects , including no evidence of systemic inflammation or clinical adverse signs . INTERPRETATION : MAR001 improved plasma lipid profiles in NHPs without clinical adversity , even during prolonged HSFD feeding . The favourable NHP safety profile aligns with human ANGPTL4 LoF findings , and contrasts with the severe pathology in mouse knockout models on an HSFD . These findings supported MAR001 clinical studies reported in our concurrent publication , which demonstrated robust lipid improvements without lymphatic pathology . Overall , these findings support continued development of MAR001 as a promising new therapy for ASCVD risk reduction . FUNDING : Marea Therapeutics .
BACKGROUND/AIMS : Patients with acute exacerbation of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis ( AE-IPF ) typically have a poor prognosis ; however , no effective treatment is available . In recent years , several retrospective studies have suggested the clinical benefits of direct hemoperfusion with a polymyxin B-immobilized fiber column ( PMX-DHP ) in patients with AE-IPF . Herein , we aimed to investigate the efficacy and safety of PMX-DHP treatment in patients with AE-IPF . METHODS : Patients diagnosed with AE-IPF ( n = 10 ) with a partial pressure of oxygen to fraction of inspiratory oxygen ratio ( P/F ratio ) > 100 were prospectively enrolled at a single center . PMX-DHP was performed twice for 6 hours ( at 24-h intervals ) at a flow rate of 80-100 mL/min , and steroid pulse therapy was concurrently administered ( 500 mg of methylprednisolone for 3 d ) . RESULTS : The mean patient age was 67 years , and 0% were male . During the follow-up ( median , 5 d ; interquartile range , 0-0 d ) , seven ( 0% ) patients died ( including two who underwent transplantation ) ; the in-hospital mortality rate was 70% , while the 30- and 90-day mortality rates were 0% and 0% , respectively . After 48 hours of PMX-DHP treatment , the P/F ratio improved ( mean , 0 vs . 0 ; p = 054 ) and C-reactive protein level decreased ( mean , 3 mg/dL vs . 5 mg/dL ; p = 012 ) . During hospitalization , no PMX-DHP-associated adverse events were observed . CONCLUSION : Our results suggest that PMX-DHP treatment may be useful at improving oxygenation and reducing inflammation in patients with AE-IPF with acceptable safety profiles , however without affecting their prognosis . FAU - Kim , Min Jee
The Chinese herring ( Ilisha elongata ) is an economically important clupeiform fish , mostly found along the coast of China and Japan in the western Pacific Ocean . Overfishing and climate change have caused a substantial decline in its annual catch , which may have impacted its population size and structure . Here , we present a chromosome-level genome assembly of the Chinese herring , generated using a combination of Nanopore sequencing , Illumina sequencing , and high-throughput chromatin conformation capture ( Hi-C ) technologies . The total length of this assembly is47 Mbp , anchored to 24 chromosomes , with contig N50 and scaffold N50 values of 22 Mbpand 10 Mbp , respectively . BUSCO analysis indicated high completeness of this assembly , with 9% of universal single-copy orthologs . Analysis of resequencing samples from various coastal regions of China and Japan revealed four distinct genetic populations of Chinese herring along the East Asian coast . The Dandong population ( Yellow Sea ) diverged earliest , exhibiting unique genetic structures and selective sweep signals , whereas the other three populations expanded from a tropical South China Sea ancestral population to the East China Sea and to Japanese waters . Among 23 , 366 protein-coding genes , several families related to metabolism of very-long-chain unsaturated fatty acids are particularly contracted compared to the American shad . Additionally , several genes associated with fatty acid synthesis formation have undergone accelerated positive selection . These findings may explain the differential fatty acid ratios in marine versus riverine migratory clupeiforms . This high-quality genome assembly of the Chinese herring may provide valuable resources for comparative study of coastal fishes and benefit the development of a sustainable management strategy for fisheries of the Chinese herring .
Canine urothelial carcinoma ( cUC ) is a prevalent and aggressive malignancy in dogs . Current treatments have limited effectiveness , and delays in diagnosis are often a concern . cUC is unique in that it shows high responsiveness to cyclooxygenase ( COX ) inhibitors and has a high frequency of a single nucleotide mutation in BRAF , known as BRAF ( V595E ) . COX is one of the key enzymes involved in the production of lipid mediators , which regulate the progression of various diseases . Although studies have revealed the roles of COX in cUC , the production profiles of lipid mediators remain unknown . In this study , we comprehensively measured the urinary lipid mediator levels of cUC dogs using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry . We found that lipid production was altered in cUC , with increased amounts of several COX-catalyzed lipids , including prostaglandin E and thromboxane B , and several lipoxygenase-catalyzed lipids , including leukotriene E . Additionally , we found that the BRAF ( V595E ) mutation tended to increase the levels of most enzymatically produced lipids . Our results provide insights into novel therapeutic and diagnostic strategies for cUC and cancers with BRAF mutations .
The use of mRNA as a therapeutic drug class is a safe and fast alternative to viral vector or plasmid DNA therapies . Nevertheless , free mRNA will be rapidly degraded after administration to the body and only reach the cytosol of desired cells with difficulty . Lipid nanoparticles ( LNP ) safely deliver mRNA to cells of interest and can be used in the treatment of different diseases . Dendritic cells are the primary antigen-presenting cells and important for mRNA vaccine delivery . Efforts to increase LNP transfection of these cells are necessary and can be achieved by different approaches . Here , we present apolipoprotein E4 addition to LNP administration as one mean of increasing LNP-mediated eGFP mRNA delivery to human monocyte-derived dendritic cells . We also show some steps in the preparation method for LNP optimization using MS2 RNA as a novel model nucleic acid .
Lipid-based formulations ( LBFs ) are classified according to the content of each component and the hydrophilicity of the surfactant into types I - IV , with LBFs type IIIa consisting of 40 - 80 % oils , 20 - 40 % water-soluble surfactant with HLB > 12 , and 0 - 40 % cosolvents . In cases where high drug loads are required , e . g . preclinical toxicity-studies , and the solubility of the drug in the vehicle is insufficient , the use of supersaturated LBFs has been suggested . The impact of digestion on drug absorption from cinnarizine-loaded type I and type II LBFs had previously been found to be highly important for the bio-performance , however , the IIIa systems self-emulsify which is why digestion may be less critical . Therefore , the impact of digestion on drug absorption , as well as the impact of lipid chain length , supersaturation and the addition of the precipitation inhibitor Soluplus ( R ) has been investigated in the present work for LBF class IIIa formulations using cinnarizine as a model compound in a similar manner as the previous studies on LBF classes I and II . The administration of long-chain ( LC ) based type IIIa formulations resulted in a similar drug exposure as for medium-chain ( MC ) based systems . Supersaturation was beneficial in all cases , with an increase in AUC ( 0-24h ) of 72 - 178 % and in C ( max ) of 45 - 130 % . Upon lipase inhibition , AUC ( 0-24h ) tended to decrease by 28 - 35 % for LC-based formulations . For MC-based formulations , there was an increase in the AUC ( 0-24h ) of up to 31 % compared to the formulations without lipase inhibition , however , if Soluplus ( R ) was present , the AUC ( 0-24h ) for MC-based formulations tended to decrease . The addition of Soluplus ( R ) only brought a benefit for non-supersaturated LBFs , with a 26 - 34 % increase in AUC ( 0-24h ) , and for supersaturated MC-based formulations without lipase inhibition , but not for the other formulations . This was surprising as the administered dose of cinnarizine in supersaturated LBFs containing the precipitation inhibitor was higher than in supersaturated LBFs without Soluplus ( R ) .
This research provides a comparative analysis of two innovative strategies - hydrophobic ion pairing ( HIP ) and dry reverse micelles ( dRM ) - to enhance the oral bioavailability of exenatide , a GLP-1 receptor agonist , as a diabetes treatment . These techniques were integrated into self-emulsifying drug delivery systems ( SEDDS ) featuring a lipid matrix composed of propylene glycol dilaurate and salicylic acid methyl ester ( 5 % : 5 % ; v/v ) with polyethoxylated-35 castor oil ( 35 % ; v/v ) as surfactant . HIP enhances the lipophilicity of exenatide through ion-pairing with cationic surfactants , thereby promoting efficient incorporation into the lipid matrix of SEDDS . In contrast , dRM forms stabilized micellar structures using sorbitan monooleate , improving safety and compatibility . The droplet sizes for SEDDS were analyzed via dynamic light scattering and varied from 95 to 110 nm , with a polydispersity index of approximately 25 , and zeta potentials between -1 mV and -6 mV . The maximum log D ( SEDDS/AQ ) values were 13 +/- 31 for exenatide-loaded HIPs ( ExeHIP ) and 05 +/- 08 for exenatide-loaded dRM ( ExedRM ) , indicating sufficient lipophilicity , which is crucial for effective absorption and bioavailability . Toxicological assessments showed low toxicity levels . In vivo studies indicated a relative bioavailability of 08 % for ExeHIP and 06 % for ExedRM compared to intravenous injection . Both strategies demonstrated a similar potential in relative bioavailability , reflecting a significant increase in bioavailability compared to the control . Notably , the HIP formulation provided better control over exenatide release and ensured stable GLP-1 levels , while dRMs are preferable for safety reasons as all excipients have GRAS status and are therefore FDA approved .
AIMS : This study aimed to elucidate the role of oligoadenylate synthase-like protein ( OASL ) as a pivotal regulator integrating keratinocyte hyperproliferation , inflammation , and lipid metabolic dysregulation in psoriasis pathogenesis . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Clinical analyses compared epidermal OASL expression levels between psoriasis patients and healthy individuals . Functional studies in HaCaT cells employed OASL knockdown and overexpression to assess effects on proliferation , inflammatory responses , and lipid metabolism . The JAK1-STAT1-OASL regulatory axis was investigated using the JAK1 inhibitor Upadacitinib . The natural flavonoid Astilbin was screened as an OASL inhibitor , and its therapeutic efficacy was evaluated in imiquimod-induced psoriatic mice . KEY FINDINGS : OASL was significantly upregulated in psoriatic epidermis . Knockdown of OASL suppressed keratinocyte proliferation and inflammation , while its overexpression promoted hyperproliferation , inflammation , and lipid metabolic dysregulation via p38 MAPK pathway activation . Mechanistically , Upadacitinib reduced OASL expression by inhibiting STAT1 , confirming the JAK1-STAT1-OASL axis . Astilbin markedly alleviated imiquimod-induced psoriasiform dermatitis in mice . SIGNIFICANCE : This study reveals OASL ' s pivotal regulatory role in psoriasis and its associated pathways , providing novel therapeutic targets and a potential natural drug candidate . These findings establish a theoretical foundation for developing multi-targeted strategies against psoriasis .
Alcohol use disorder ( AUD ) affects millions of people and represents a significant health and economic burden . Pain is a frequently under-treated aspect of hyperkatifeia during alcohol withdrawal , yet to date no drugs have received FDA approval for the treatment of this indication in AUD patients . This study aims to evaluate the potential of targeting bioactive lipid signaling pathways as a therapeutic approach for treating alcohol withdrawal-related pain hypersensitivity . We utilized a chronic intermittent ethanol ( CIE ) vapor exposure model in C57BL/6J mice of both sexes to establish alcohol dependence and demonstrated that CIE produced robust tactile allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia during withdrawal that was independent of prior blood alcohol levels . Next , we evaluated four drugs for their efficacy in reversing tactile allodynia during abstinence from CIE using a cross-over treatment design that included FDA-approved naltrexone as well as commercially available inhibitors targeting the inflammatory lipid signaling enzymes fatty acid amide hydrolase ( FAAH ) , monoacylglycerol lipase ( MAGL ) , and 15-Lipoxygenase ( LOX ) . None of these compounds produced significant therapeutic benefit in reversing established CIE-induced tactile allodynia , despite attenuating pain-like behaviors at these doses in other chronic pain models . Additionally , we assessed plasma endocannabinoid levels in both sexes during withdrawal . We found that there was an inherent sex difference in the endogenous anti-inflammatory endocannabinoid tone in naive mice and that CIE treatment affected endocannabinoids levels in female mice only . These findings underscore the need to better understand the underlying causes of AUD-induced allodynia and to develop novel therapeutic approaches to mitigate pain hypersensitivity in AUD patients .
Long-chain fatty acids ( LCFA ) are important intermediate metabolites in lipid hydrolysis during anaerobic digestion for biogas production . High LCFA loads inhibit microbial activity by toxicity , impairing the coupling of beta-oxidation and methanogenesis , thus reducing LCFA degradation efficiency . This study employed and tested seven stimulants , including the resuscitation-promoting factors ( Rpf and YeaZ ) , the quorum-sensing molecules ( cAMP , and AHLs ) , the chemical stimulants ( pyruvate ) , the growth promoter ( fumarate ) , and yeast extract + peptone ( YP ) for enhancement of methanogenic degradation of LCFA . The results indicate that the chemical stimulants and resuscitation-promoting factors enhanced maximum methane-production rate 58 to 20 fold versus the NS , reducing the lag phase by 46-76 days . Analysis of the microbial community composition revealed that the quorum sensing factors only increased species richness , while Rpf , YeaZ fumarate , and YP stimulated the growth of core members of the communities . Metagenomic analysis detected three previously unreported LCFA-degrading bacterial taxa , Marinisomatota , Thermoanaerobaculaceae and Pelomonas . Particularly , Rpf and YeaZ significantly enriched LCFA-degrading bacteria such as Syntrophomonadaceae , Leptospiraceae , and Marine Group B within the core species , while YeaZ also stimulated methanogenic bacteria , possibly due to resuscitating dormant microbes from unfavorable conditions . Syntrophic interactions between LCFA degraders and non-degraders , rather than methanogen abundance , govern methanogenic LCFA degradation . These results demonstrate that the use of stimulants is an effective approach to enhance LCFA degradation and provide a new pathway for energy recovery .
Anxiety and mood disorders represent the most prevalent neuropsychiatric conditions . Nevertheless , current pharmacotherapies often have a host of adverse side effects . Emerging evidence suggests modulation of lipid signaling pathways - particularly those involved in the endocannabinoid ( eCB ) system , may offer promising new targets for the treatment of anxiety and depression . Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) and their metabolic derivatives , including the eCB ligands , have garnered significant attention for their roles in neuropsychiatric disease mechanisms . Intracellular transportation of these lipids is facilitated by fatty acid binding proteins ( FABP ) , which are increasingly recognized as key regulators of lipid signaling . Accumulating evidence indicates that FABPs may impact the development of neuropsychiatric disorders by mediating the signaling pathways of PUFAs and eCB ligands . In this review , we investigate the role of FABPs in two major categories of neuropsychiatric conditions - anxiety disorders and clinical depression . We begin by examining several neuropathophysiological mechanisms through which FABPs can impact these conditions , focusing on their role as lipid chaperones . These mechanisms include the trafficking of eCB ligands , as well as oleoylethanolamide and palmitoylethanolamide ; modulation of inflammatory responses through PUFA transport and PPAR activation ; regulation of PUFA availability to support neurogenesis ; influence on stress-related pathways , including NMDA receptor activation and the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis ; and the facilitation of dopamine receptor trafficking and localization . Next , we discuss preclinical evidence linking FABP function to anxiety- and depression-related behaviours . Finally , we propose that pharmacologically targeting FABP-mediated pathways holds considerable potential as a novel therapeutic strategy for addressing the symptoms associated with mood and anxiety disorders .
Backgrounds Resistance to sorafenib , a frontline therapy for advanced ccRCC , is associated with decreased sensitivity to ferroptosis . Our research focuses on elucidating the mechanisms underlying ccRCC ' s resistance to sorafenib-induced ferroptosis and identifying potential new agents that could overcome this resistance . METHODS : The silencing of SREBP1 was employed to evaluate the role of this key transcription factor in lipid synthesis and its contribution to ferroptosis resistance in sorafenib-treated ccRCC cells . The ATF4-mediated induction of SREBP1 following salinomycin treatment was assessed by western blot , RT-PCR , immunohistochemistry , chromatin immunoprecipitation , and dual-luciferase reporter assays . In cultured ccRCC cells , the combined effects of salinomycin and sorafenib on ferroptosis induction were evaluated by assessing cell viability , glutathione levels , malondialdehyde levels , BODIPY fluorescence , and intracellular Fe ( 2+ ) concentration . In an orthotopic ccRCC mouse model , the synergistic effects of salinomycin and sorafenib on both ferroptosis and tumor progression were examined . RESULTS : Overexpression of SREBP1 was observed in ccRCC tumor tissue , and induced by sorafenib treatment . Silencing SREBP1 reduced the resistance of ccRCC cells to ferroptosis induced by sorafenib . Salinomycin decreased ATF4 level , which in turn inhibited SREBP1 transcription . Treatment with salinomycin enhanced the sensitivity of ccRCC cells to sorafenib-induced ferroptosis . In the orthotopic xenograft mouse model of ccRCC , the combination of salinomycin and sorafenib showed a synergistic effect in inducing ferroptosis inhibiting tumor growth . CONCLUSIONS : Salinomycin treatment mitigates resistance to sorafenib-induced ferroptosis by inhibiting SREBP The combination of salinomycin and sorafenib synergistically enhances ferroptosis and suppresses ccRCC growth .
BACKGROUND : Ferroptosis , an iron-dependent form of cell death mediated by lipid peroxidation , plays a critical role in tumor progression . The natural small molecule compound dracorhodin perchlorate ( DP ) exhibits antitumor activity , but its effects on colorectal cancer ( CRC ) and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear . OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to elucidate the role and mechanism of DP in CRC development and ferroptosis promotion . METHODS : Using RNA-Seq , molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation , we observed ferroptosis levels and expression of HMOX1 , SLC7A11 , and GPX4 in CRC cells treated with DP . We also examined the impact of modulating HMOX1 , SLC7A11 , and GPX4 on DP-induced ferroptosis and antitumor effects . RESULTS : DP inhibited various malignant behaviors of CRC cells and induced ferroptosis . Mechanistically , RNA-Seq , molecular dynamics simulations , and molecular docking studies have collectively confirmed that DP directly binds to the HO-1 molecule , thereby upregulating HO-1 expression and inducing iron overload . Additionally , DP downregulates the expression of SLC7A11 and GPX4 , collectively promoting the occurrence of ferroptosis in CRC cells . The HO-1 inhibitor ZnPP and SLC7A11 overexpression significantly inhibited the antitumor activity and ferroptosis induced by DP . Hemin and ferroptosis inducers enhanced its therapeutic effectiveness . DP safely suppressed subcutaneous tumor growth and exhibited synergistic effects with cisplatin both in vitro and in vivo . HMOX1 knockdown weakened the ferroptosis induced by DP in CRC . CONCLUSIONS : The findings strongly support the activation of HMOX1 by DP , downregulation of the SLC7A11/GSH/GPX4 axis , and induction of ferroptosis in CRC cells . DP inhibited CRC progression and acted synergistically when combined with cisplatin . Our research provides a scientific basis for the use of DP in the treatment of CRC and offers new insights into the application of traditional Chinese medicine in the fight against CRC .
OBJECTIVE : Aortic dissection ( AD ) is a life-threatening disease . Tankyrase1 ( TNKS1 ) , a PARylating ADP-ribosyl transferase , plays a major role in myogenesis , a vital process known to drive muscle fiber formation and regeneration . This study explores the impact of TNKS1 on the transformation of human aortic smooth muscle cells ( HASMCs ) in AD . METHODS AND RESULTS : Single-cell RNA sequencing was performed and clusters were used for between-disease differential gene expression analyses . In the AD aorta , WB , immunofluorescence and RT-q-PCR revealed that TNKS1 expression was elevated , accompanied by a disorganized cell phenotype . Further examination like WBimmunofluorescence , Scratch-Wound Assay confirmed the upregulation of TNKS1 triggers phenotypic switching . Subsequent studies revealed that ferroptosis played a key role in TNKS1-induced phenotypic switching . Increased ferroptosis markers , such as elevated iron content , ROS and lipid peroxidation , were observed in HASMCs overexpressing TNKS1 , while inhibition of ferroptosis restored the contractile phenotype . Co-IP assay demonstrated a direct protein-protein interaction between TNKS1 and SLC7A11 at the molecular level . In vivo , the upregulation of TNKS1 not only activated ferroptosis but also triggered phenotypic transformation . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrates that TNKS1 is a key regulator of AD pathogenesis , driving HASMC phenotypic switching through ferroptosis activation , ultimately leading to aortic wall destabilization and dissection . Targeting TNKS1 or the ferroptosis pathway may offer novel therapeutic strategies for AD prevention and treatment .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Spotty calcification in the coronary arteries is considered to represent plaque vulnerability , whereas more advanced calcification is thought to be a feature of advanced stable plaque . However , data supporting this notion is limited . Inflammation plays a key role in atherogenesis , including the formation of early-stage calcification . We aimed to correlate spotty calcification assessed by optical coherence tomography ( OCT ) with vascular inflammation assessed by percutaneous coronary adipose tissue ( PCAT ) attenuation on coronary computed tomography angiography ( CCTA ) and OCT-derived plaque vulnerability . METHODS : Patients with stable angina pectoris who had both CCTA and OCT prior to coronary intervention were included . Patients were classified into two groups according to the type of calcification assessed by OCT at the target lesion : spotty calcification ( maximal calcification arc <90 degrees and length <4 mm ) and advanced calcification ( maximal calcification arc >/=90 degrees or length >/=4 mm ) group . Non-calcified plaques , and plaques with mixed spotty and advanced calcification were excluded . RESULTS : Among 355 patients , 77 had spotty calcifications and 72 had advanced calcification . The spotty calcification group showed a significantly higher level of PCAT attenuation of target vessel ( -6 [-2 to -1] vs . -6 [-1 to -7 HU] , p < 001 ) and a significantly higher prevalence of lipid-rich plaque ( 8 % vs . 2 % , p < 001 ) and macrophage ( 9 % vs . 7 % , p = 016 ) , compared with the advanced calcification group . CONCLUSIONS : Plaques with spotty calcification are associated with a higher level of perivascular inflammation and a higher prevalence of features of plaque vulnerability than those with advanced calcification .
1- ( 2 , 5-Dichlorophenyl ) -2-thiourea ( DCPT ) was selected from thiourea due to its extraordinary polyphenol oxidase ( PPO ) inhibitory activity ( IC = 2 +/- 2 nmol L ( -1 ) ) . The binding of DCPT to PPO affected the microenvironment of amino acid residues at the binding site , subsequently inducing structural stretching and relaxation in PPO , and ultimately altering the secondary structure and conformation of the enzyme . These alterations resulted in a significant suppression of PPO activity . In antibacterial experiments , DCPT exhibited remarkable bacteriostatic properties by enhancing the permeability of cell membrane and cell wall in Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) and Escherichia coli ( E . coli ) , leading to cellular content leakage and bacterial cell death . In addition , studies on browning inhibition indicated that DCPT mitigated the browning of fresh-cut apples by inhibiting lipid peroxidation , enhancing antioxidant capacities , and regulating phenolic metabolism . Furthermore , cell assays and oral toxicity tests demonstrated that the concentration of DCPT used in the anti-browning experiment was safe . These findings offered some new insights into the inhibition of DCPT against PPO , bacteria , and browning , providing scientific evidence for its potential application in food preservation .
During nixtamalization , the lime provides the hydroxyl ions responsible for hydrolysis of the pericarp and the calcium cations can form calcium- amylose/amylopectin van der Waals complexes and calcium-protein gels which increase viscosity and improve calcium content . The particle size of the lime is critical to this process . In this research calcium hydroxide nanoparticles were chemically prepared with CaCl ( 2 , ) and their physicochemical properties were measured ( particle size distribution , zeta potential , thermogravimetric analysis , X-ray diffraction and infrared spectroscopy ) . White corn kernels were nixtamalized with calcium hydroxide nanoparticles and their effects on the structural , rheological and thermal properties of nixtamalized flours were compared with those of commercial lime , which was the aim of this work . It was found that nano-lime improved the calcium content of the flours , and the formation of amylose-lipid complexes was achieved in less time than nixtamalization with commercial lime .
Anionic Polyacrylamide ( APAM ) is widely used in oil extraction processes , serving as an oil-repellent polymer and constituting a critical component of water-based drilling fluids . The environmental and ecological effects of APAM on fishery resources have attracted significant attention , yet its toxic mechanism in marine fish at early developmental stages remains poorly understood . The potential effects of APAM on marine medaka ( Oryzias melastigma ) embryos were investigated by exposing them to 0 , 120 , 240 , 480 , and 960 mg/L for 18 d . APAM exposure caused developmental toxicity in embryos , leading to reduced heart rates , delayed and decreased hatching , increased mortality and malformations . The activities of superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) and catalase ( CAT ) initially increased after 2 d of exposure but decreased after 8 and 18 days of prolonged stress , while malondialdehyde ( MDA ) concentration increased , causing lipid peroxidation and worsening oxidative damage . After 18 days of APAM exposure , low and medium concentrations increased the expression of cardiovascular genes GATA4 and NKX5 , while high concentrations decreased NKX5 , leading to heart defects like elongated hearts and pericardial cysts . Additionally , low concentrations significantly boosted nervous system genes SHHA and SYN2A , enhancing swimming behaviors , whereas high concentrations suppressed these genes , reducing swimming activity . In conclusion , this study demonstrated that APAM exposure causes developmental toxicity , oxidative stress , neurotoxicity , and disrupts early cardiac development in O . melastigma embryos , providing insight into its toxic effects on early marine fish development .
BACKGROUND : Legacy per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFAS ) can promote dyslipidemia ; however , evidence is lacking for alternative and precursor PFAS . We investigated associations between serum concentrations of 31 PFAS and concurrently measured lipids and liver function biomarkers . METHODS : PFAS , lipids , and liver function biomarkers were analyzed in serum samples provided by 282 adult females participating in a 2018-2021 follow-up study of a Canadian pregnancy cohort . We examined percent differences in outcomes continuously for 17 PFAS with >50% detection and as detected vs . not detected for 14 PFAS with 10-50% detection . We also examined associations with the sum of 7 PFAS recommended by the National Academies of Sciences , Engineering , and Medicine guidance report on PFAS testing and 17 PFAS . We used weighted quantile sum ( WQS ) and quantile g-computation models to estimate joint associations . RESULTS : Each two-fold increase in concentrations of PFHxS , PFOS , PFNA , PFDA , PFHpS , and Sigma7PFAS were associated with up to 7% higher total and LDL cholesterol and the TC : HDL ratio . Individuals with detectable concentrations of N-EtFOSA , N-MeFOSA , PFBS , and 9Cl-PF3ONS had up to 17% higher total and LDL cholesterol and TC : HDL . Each one-quartile increase in the mixture of 7 PFAS was associated with up to 10% higher total and LDL cholesterol . Adding additional PFAS to the mixture ( 17 PFAS ) made estimates less precise in WQS models and attenuated associations to the null in quantile g-computation models . CONCLUSION : Alternative and precursor PFAS , including replacements for legacy PFAS , are associated with higher cholesterol levels ; prospective studies are required to confirm these findings .
Tetrabromobisphenol A ( TBBPA ) is the most widely used brominated flame retardant and has been identified as emerging widespread pollutants . Ferroptosis , a recently characterized form of iron-dependent cell death , is related to a wide range of liver diseases . Ferritinophagy as a novel selective form of autophagy functions in iron processing is essential to induce ferroptosis . Poly ( rC ) -binding protein 1 ( PCBP1 ) is an iron chaperone involved in iron loading to ferritin . Nevertheless , the potential health risk caused by TBBPA in mammals is unknown . Thus , this study is conducted to explore the molecular mechanism of TBBPA-induced liver injury and the unique role of PCBP1 in it . In this study , we found that TBBPA exposure caused hepatic pathological injury and hepatocyte mitochondrial morphological changes , such as decreased or absent mitochondrial crest , ruptured mitochondrial membranes and mitochondrial shrinkage . The result showed that TBBPA exposure exacerbated glutathione depletion and lipid peroxidation , which are hallmarks of ferroptosis . Consistent with the results in vivo , TBBPA exposure activated ferritinophagy and upregulated indicators related to ferroptosis in hepatocytes . Of note , overexpression of PCBP1 inhibited TBBPA-induced ferroptosis by reducing overstimulated ferritinophagy . Here , we uncover a new mechanism whereby TBBPA triggers hepatocyte ferroptosis through the activation of ferritinophagy . Of note , we identify PCBP1 as critical for liver iron homeostasis , link this molecule to liver disease . Taken together , our findings provide a new therapeutic strategy and potential target for the treatment of liver disease .
Chitooligosaccharides is a green and non-toxic amino sugar , and its immunomodulatory activity has attracted much attention in recent years . However , most of the test samples in the existing chitooligosaccharides activity studies are mixtures , and the immunomodulatory structure-activity relationship is difficult to understand . In the present study , we successfully isolated five single chitooligosaccharides from dimer to hexamer by ion-exchange chromatography , and further investigated the size effects of chitooligosaccharides on its immunomodulatory activity . In vitro experiments showed that chitooligosaccharides with higher degree of polymerization ( DP ) show stronger inhibitory effect on lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced NO release in RAW7 macrophages . The high DP chitooligosaccharides were further selected for in vivo experiments . The results suggested that in LPS-induced endotoxemia model mice , chitooligosaccharides tetramer ( D4 ) , pentamer ( D5 ) and hexamer ( D6 ) significantly restored serum levels of alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) and creatinine ( CREA ) , while concurrently elevating pro-inflammatory cytokines ( IL-1beta , IFN-gamma ) and upregulating anti-inflammatory IL-10 expression , revealing bidirectional immunoregulatory capabilities . Moreover , these three high DP chitooligosaccharides were also effective in protecting the intestinal villus structure and attenuating hepatic and renal injuries .
BACKGROUND : Rectal cancer is a leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide . The recurrence of locally advanced rectal cancer ( LARC ) , particularly in cases involving lymph node-positive tumours , remains a critical challenge in rectal cancer management . In this study , a therapeutic strategy , radiation-activated photodynamic therapy ( RA-PDT ) , for the treatment of LARC with lymph node-positive tumours was developed and evaluated . METHODS : RA-PDT was achieved by using a lipid-polymer hybrid nanoplatform loaded with verteporfin ( VP ) and functionalised with folic acid ( FA ) as a targeting molecule . Upon receiving a single 4 Gy fraction of radiation , VP was effectively activated , generating sufficient reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) to induce cancer cell death-however surrounding tissue was less affected and was spared . The efficacy of this strategy was assessed through in vitro cytotoxicity studies in HCT116 cells , as well as in orthotopic and subcutaneous mouse models . In vivo lymph node tumour progression was also evaluated . FINDINGS : RA-PDT effectively generated ROS following 4 Gy irradiation and exhibited significant cytotoxicity in HCT116 cells . In vivo , this strategy largely inhibited primary tumour growth in both orthotopic and subcutaneous mouse models while also suppressing lymph node tumour progression . Surrounding tissues were minimally affected , highlighting the precision and safety of this approach . INTERPRETATION : RA-PDT demonstrates potential as a safe therapeutic strategy for LARC , paving the way for its clinical translation . FUNDING : This study was supported by the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council ( GNT1181889 ) , fellowship award ( 2019/CDF1013 ) from Cancer Institute NSW , Australia , the Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for Nanoscale Biophotonics ( CE140100003 ) , UNSW SHARP funding , project grant from National Foundation for Medical Research and Innovation , Australia , International Research Training Program Scholarship ( IRTP ) from Australian Government , PhD Research Scholar Award from Sydney Vital Translational Cancer Research , and Translational Cancer Research Network PhD Scholarship Top-up award .
Due to strong anthropogenic pressures and their location at the interface between continental and oceanic environments , estuarine areas are affected by significant diverse pollution and species that live in these areas are particularly exposed . Microplastic ( MPs ) pollution is a worldwide issue and causes substantiated trouble in estuaries where sometimes the number of MPs equal or exceed the number of fish larvae which suggest a high risk of contamination of biota especially in benthic organisms and demersal fish . There are growing evidence that , beyond intrinsic toxicity , MPs can transfer chemicals ( additives or pollutants ) . In order to get closer to environmental situations , in this study we tackled an issue that is rarely dealt with , namely the trophic transfer of MPs and chemicals through the food chain between a sediment- and a benthic-feeder . To take into account these specificities , we used an emblematic and common species of the European coastlines , the common sole ( Solea solea ) and its annelid prey . Sole juveniles were fed with estuarine ragworms ( Hediste diversicolor ) previously exposed to MPs via enriched MPs sediment . The MPs used were either a mixture of micronized plastics collected from the Seine Estuary ( eMPs , two environmental concentrations at 1 or 100 mg/kg of sediment , median size range 52-77 mum ) or model MPs of PVC particles ( at 1 g/kg of sediment , size range 125-250 mum ) , either uncontaminated or contaminated with Benzo ( a ) Pyrene ( BaP , 5 mug/g MPs ) or benzophenone-3 ( BP3 , 66 ng/g MPs ) . Several indicators of health status such as survival , growth , behaviour , energy metabolism , and histopathology were studied . Sole individuals fed ragworms exposed to eMPs or PVC MPs displayed a change in behaviour ( place preference between black/white background ) . Seine Estuary eMPs lead to an increase in body colour chroma for the highest concentration and behaviour was modified with an increase in time spent on white bottom and transition number for the highest concentration when distance moved increased only at the lowest concentration . Sole exposed to BaP-PVC-MPs displayed the lowest time spent on white background compared to control and BP3-PVC-MPs group . Soles exposed to BP3-PVC MPs displayed a significant skin colour increase in chroma and a wider combination of value/chroma reflecting more diverse skin colours . Finally , lipid content in muscle and DNA damage were significantly higher in BP3-MPs . Although the exact mechanisms underpinning such changes are largely unknown , these observations are indicative of physiological stress which may have a significant impact on survival by increasing predation risks for fish juveniles , hence the ecosystem health and calls for further trophic transfer experimental research .
Very-long-chain fatty acids ( VLCFAs ) play crucial roles in various physiological processes in plants . Through our investigation using a CRISPR-Cas9 knockout mutant library in rice , we identified a semi-dwarf rice mutant named CRISPR-Cas-based dwarf-1 ( csd-1 ) . This mutant displayed multiple developmental defects , such as decreased plant height , panicle length , seed size , and seed-setting rate . Whole-genome resequencing analysis revealed that a T-nucleotide insertion in beta-ketoacyl-CoA synthase 11 ( KCS11 ) , responsible for the initial step in fatty acid elongation , was responsible for the observed defects in csd- The identity of csd-1 was confirmed through genetic complementation and CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockout . Expression analysis indicated that OsKCS11 was present in various tissues , with differential abundance observed through RT-qPCR and promoter GUS staining , and strong localization at the node position by RNA in situ hybridization ; furthermore , OsKCS11 protein was confirmed to be in the endoplasmic reticulum . Furthermore , csd-1 exhibited significantly reduced levels of linolenic acid ( 18 : 3 ) , C24 : 0-OH , C28 : 0-alkanes , C29 : 0-alkanes , alpha-tocopherol , and C33 : 0-alkanes , while trans-nonadecenoic acid and behenic acid levels were increased . Cytokinin analysis revealed significant increases in isopentenyladenine ( IPA ) and cis-zeatin ( cZ ) levels in csd- Molecular investigations indicated upregulation of genes involved in cytokinin biosynthesis or signaling , suggesting a potential link between VLCFAs and cytokinin synthesis through acetyl-CoA . This study not only proposed an alternative gene mapping method based on whole-genome resequencing but also elucidated the mechanism by which VLCFAs influence cytokinin synthesis and signaling .
BACKGROUND : As Perfluorooctanoic Acid ( PFOA ) has been extensively utilized as a processing aid in the manufacture of non-stick coatings , waterproof materials , and other products , concerns regarding its adverse health effects have emerged . Epidemiological data revealed a strong correlation between renal cell carcinoma ( RCC ) and PFOA concentration , while animal experimental results also demonstrate the association between PFOA and RCC . However , the key targets and mechanisms underlying PFOA-induced RCC remain elusive . This study utilized network toxicology to elucidate the critical target genes and mechanisms of PFOA-induced clear cell RCC ( ccRCC ) , the most prevalent RCC subtype . METHODS : We retrieved potential PFOA targets from the Swiss Target Prediction database , ChEMBL , and STITCH , and identified RCC-related targets from GeneCards and OMIM . Transcriptomic data for ccRCC patients were obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas Program ( TCGA ) to identify differentially expressed genes . We intersected genes from these datasets for construct a protein-protein interaction ( PPI ) network . Hub genes were identified from the network using MCODE and cytoHubba plugins in Cytoscape . A risk score based on these hub genes was developed for prognostic analysis , and molecular docking was applied to validate the interactions between PFOA and hub targets . RESULTS : Intersection genes from these datasets , yielding 70 potential PFOA-induced ccRCC targets . Network analysis identified 7 hub genes-CYP2C9 , CYP3A4 , CYP1A1 , CYP1A2 , CYP2B6 , CYP2C8 , and ABCB1 , and molecular docking confirmed PFOA ' s binding affinity to their corresponding proteins . Enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology ( GO ) , Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) , and Reactome databases on the 70 potential targets and 7 hub genes revealed four potential mechanisms of PFOA-induced ccRCC : abnormal xenobiotic metabolism and accumulation of toxic intermediates , disrupted lipid homeostasis , oxidative stress and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) generation , and disrupted steroid hormone signaling . CONCLUSION : Our findings provide novel insights into PFOA-induced ccRCC mechanisms , with implications for risk assessment and environmental health .
The complement system is essential for immune defense , but its dysregulation contributes to various complement-mediated disorders , including paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria ( PNH ) . CP40 ( a cyclic peptide also known as AMY101 ) , effectively inhibits complement activation by preventing the initial binding of the C3 substrate to convertase . Despite its potency , CP40 has a very short plasma half-life when unbound to human C3 , necessitating frequent dosing . We developed a novel PASylation-Lipidation Modular ( PLM ) platform . This platform incorporates a solubilizing PAS module and a half-life-extending lipid moiety into CP40 via a chemical linker . Systematic optimization of the spacer and lipid components in PLM-modified CP40 analogues identified 6C1 as a lead compound . Compared to CP40 , 6C1 exhibited a 5-fold increase in antihemolytic potency in the classical complement pathway and a 3-fold improvement in solubility . In vivo studies demonstrated that PLM-CP40 analogues possess superior pharmacokinetic properties , with a 6-fold extension in half-life relative to unmodified CP Mechanistic studies revealed that the PLM platform extends half-life by interacting with albumin , which serves as a circulating depot for the compound . Surface plasmon resonance analysis and hemolysis assays postalbumin incubation demonstrated that PLM modifications maintain receptor affinity by strategically positioning the albumin-binding moiety away from the peptide region , preserving its biological activity . In a clinically relevant in vitro model of complement-mediated hemolysis in PNH , 6C1 effectively reduced erythrocyte lysis . The PLM platform thus offers a versatile strategy for enhancing peptide therapeutics by improving solubility , extending circulation time , and increasing efficacy , broadening their therapeutic potential . FAU - Wang , Chengcheng
BACKGROUND : Parkinson disease ( PD ) is a chronic progressive neurodegenerative disorder leading to motor and non-motor impairment , often resulting in severe loss of quality of life . There are symptomatic treatments without effect on the progression of PD . A disease-modifying treatment that could ideally stop the neurodegenerative process is direly needed . Monosialotetrahexosylganglioside ( GM1 ) is a promising molecule with neuroprotective effects in preclinical models of PD and has yielded encouraging results in patients with PD in a randomized placebo-controlled trial . Talineuren ( TLN ) is a liposomal formulation of GM1 that has been shown to cross the blood-brain barrier in animals . We assessed the safety and pharmacokinetics ( PK ) of TLN in patients with PD . METHODS AND FINDINGS : We prospectively enrolled 12 patients with PD into a single-center , open-label phase I trial to assess the safety and tolerability of weekly infusions with TLN . The maximum suitable dose of TLN was determined by dose escalation in three patients . All three patients tolerated the predetermined maximal dose of 720 mg . Subsequently , these and nine additional patients received weekly infusions at the maximum suitable dose of 720 mg TLN over two months ( 1 patient stopped prematurely ) . PK were determined for the additional nine patients as a secondary outcome measure . Cmax was reached 4 h after infusion start for all but one participant , who reached Cmax after 1 h , while the median plasma half-life was reached at 6 h . All adverse events were continuously assessed as the primary objective and coded according to the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities ( MedDRA ) . Clinical manifestations of PD were assessed as secondary outcomes using the Movement Disorders Society Unified Parkinson ' s Disease Rating Scale ( MDS-UPDRS ) , including a levodopa challenge test at baseline and end . In addition to weekly history taking , scales to measure mood , behavior , quality of life , sleepiness , non-motor symptoms of PD , and cognition were used as further secondary outcomes as well as assessing the Levodopa-Equivalent Daily Dose ( LEDD ) . Overall , 304 adverse events ( mean : 33 ; 6-75 events per patient ) occurred , 267 of which were mild ( mean : 25 ; 3-72 events per patient ) . 23 were considered related to the study treatment ( 0-8 events per patient ) . Very mild-to-severe acute infusion reactions at the second , third , or fourth administration of TLN within the first minutes of the infusion occurred in seven patients . All reported back or neck pain . Other acute infusion reactions were urticaria , plethora , nausea , and chest pain . These adverse reactions disappeared within minutes of stopping the infusion and did not recur when TLN administration was resumed at a very low rate . Beyond the fourth administration , infusions could be given at increased rates up to 370 ml/h , and no acute reaction occurred anymore . The mechanism of this acute infusion reaction remains unclear . Some patients reported mild dizziness for a few hours after TLN following many but not all administrations throughout the study . Non-motor symptoms of PD , motor parkinsonian signs off medication , and quality of life improved significantly during the treatment phase , including the MDS-UPDRS total score ( mean decrease -09 ; 95% Confidence Interval [CI] ; -18 , -1 ; p = 006 ) , the Parkinson ' s disease Questionnaire-39 ( PDQ-39 ) summary index ( mean decrease -91 ; 95% CI ; -4 , -4 ; p = 005 ) , and the Non-Motor Symptoms Questionnaire ( NMS-Quest ) ( mean decrease -27 ; 95% CI ; -5 , -1 ; p = 009 ) . No statistically significant improvements were seen in the Montreal Cognitive Assessment ( MoCA ) ( mean decrease -73 ; 95% CI ; -1 , 62 ; p = 255 ) , Epworth Sleepiness Scale ( mean increase 09 ; 95% CI ; -6 , 8 ; p > 999 ) , Beck Depression Inventory ( BDI ) ( mean decrease -27 ; 95% CI ; -8 , 3 ; p = 257 ) , and the Starkstein Apathy Scale ( mean increase 36 ; 95% CI ; -6 , 4 ; p = 822 ) . Dopaminergic medications remained stable during the study ( LEDD mean increase 18 ; 95% CI ; -7 , 24 ; p = 423 ) . While clinical improvements indicate a benefit associated with TLN treatment , the trial design does not allow for definite conclusions regarding efficacy . A randomized , placebo-controlled trial will be required to corroborate our exploratory findings . CONCLUSION : TLN is safe and well-tolerated in general . This prospective phase I trial revealed non-allergic habituating acute infusion reactions at the second , third , or fourth treatment that can be prevented by a slower rate of infusion . Importantly , the exploratory results suggest a consistent improvement of signs and symptoms of PD . TRIAL REGISTRATION : The NEON trial is registered at the US National Institutes of Health ( ClinicalTrials . gov ) #NCT04976127 and in the Swiss National Clinical Trials Portal ( SNCTP000004631 ) .
AIMS : There are no effective medications to prevent the onset of degenerative valvular heart disease ( VHD ) . Sweetened beverage consumption may contribute to the development of VHD by affecting metabolic disorders , systemic inflammation , and calcification processes . This study aimed to prospectively assess the association between sweetened beverage consumption and the risk of degenerative VHD . METHODS AND RESULTS : This prospective study included 167 , 801 participants from the UK Biobank who completed at least one dietary questionnaire . During a median follow-up of 53 years , 1 , 464 cases of aortic valve stenosis ( AS ) events , 584 cases of aortic valve regurgitation ( AR ) events , and 1 , 744 cases of mitral valve regurgitation ( MR ) events were recorded . Compared with non-consumers , participants consuming more than one drink per day of artificially sweetened beverages ( ASBs ) had a higher risk of AS ( HR : 36 , 95% CI : 10-68 ) , AR ( HR : 42 , 95% CI : 02-00 ) , MR ( HR : 35 , 95% CI : 10-64 ) . Similarly , the consumption of more than one drink of sugar-sweetened beverages ( SSBs ) was associated with an increased incidence of MR ( HR : 47 , 95% CI : 22-77 ) . In contrast , no significant association was observed between the consumption of natural juices ( NJs ) and VHD risk . Results for VHD-related interventions , deaths , or cardiovascular events were largely consistent . Substituting SSBs or ASBs per day with NJs was associated with a reduced risk of MR ( HR : 83 , 95% CI : 72-94 ) events or AS ( HR : 81 , 95% CI : 69-94 ) events , respectively . CONCLUSIONS : Lower consumption of SSBs or ASBs may reduce the risk of degenerative VHD and VHD-related events .
AIM : This study aims to investigate the association between Life ' s Essential 8 ( LE8 ) and Aortic Valve Calcification ( AVC ) and to evaluate whether a high LE8 score can effectively reduce the risk of AVC . METHODS : This study included 30 , 561 participants from the Kailuan cohort who completed the Kailuan health examination and underwent ultrasound evaluations . A multifactorial logistic regression analysis was used to assess the relationship between LE8 score and AVC , along with subgroup analyses and an analysis of the impact of each component of LE8 on AVC . RESULTS : Among the 30 , 561 participants , 3 , 717 ( 16% ) cases of AVC were detected , with a detection rate of 16% . The detection rate of AVC significantly decreased with increased LE8 ( P<001 ) . The risk of AVC was reduced by 34% in the moderate Cardiovascular Health ( CVH ) group ( OR=66 , 95% CI 60-72 ) and by 63% in the high CVH group ( OR=37 , 95% CI 27-50 ) . For each standard deviation increase in the LE8 score , the risk of AVC decreased by 23% ( OR=77 , 95% CI 74-80 ) . Analysis of the individual components of LE8 revealed that diet , exercise , body mass index , blood lipids , blood glucose , and blood pressure were all associated with the reduced risk of AVC . In contrast , no impact of sleep and smoking on AVC risk was observed . CONCLUSIONS : The study indicates that a high LE8 score was associated with low AVC risk , suggesting a new prevention strategy through healthy behaviors and lifestyle changes .
CONTEXT : Insulin Resistance ( IR ) contributes to the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) and is a risk factor for cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases . Amino acid and lipid metabolomic biomarkers associate with future T2DM risk in several epidemiological cohorts . Whether these biomarkers can accurately detect changes in IR status following treatment is unclear . OBJECTIVE : Herein we evaluated the performance of clinical and metabolomic biomarker models to forecast altered IR , following lifestyle-based interventions . DESIGN : We evaluated the performance of two distinct insulin assay types ( high-sensitivity ELISA and Immunoassay ) and built IR diagnostic models using cross-sectional clinical and metabolomic data . These models were utilised to stratify IR status in pre-intervention fasting samples , from three independent cohorts ( META-PREDICT ( M-P , n=179 ) , STRRIDE-AT/RT ( S-2 , n=116 ) and STRRIDE-PD ( S-PD , n=149 ) ) . Linear and Bayesian projective prediction strategies were used to evaluate models for fasting insulin and HOMA2-IR and change in fasting insulin with treatment . RESULTS : Both insulin assays accurately quantified international standard insulin ( R2>99 ) , yet agreement for fasting insulin was less congruent ( R2=65 ) . A mean treatment effect on fasting insulin was only detectable using an ELISA . Clinical-metabolomic models were statistically related to fasting insulin ( R2 33-39 ) but with modest capacity to classify IR at a clinically relevant HOMA2-IR threshold . Furthermore , no model predicted treatment responses in any cohort . CONCLUSION : We demonstrate that the choice of insulin assay is critical when quantifying the influence of treatment on fasting insulin , while none of the clinical-metabolomic biomarkers , identified in cross-sectional studies , are suitable for monitoring longitudinally changes in IR status .
A 5-year-old , 9 kg , Chinese Crested was accidentally administered a dose of 5 mg/kg of amantadine , resulting in the rapid onset of tremors , agitation , vertical nystagmus , and lack of pupillary light reflex in one eye . After unsuccessful treatment with methocarbamol , a 5 mL/kg bolus of 20% intravenous lipid emulsion therapy was initiated followed by a 25 mL/kg/min continuous rate infusion . All clinical signs secondary to the amantadine toxicity resolved following intravenous lipid emulsion therapy and remained normal on 24 h , day 5 , day 18 , and day This represents the first report of amantadine toxicity in a clinical setting and is the first case showing that intravenous lipid emulsion therapy could be an effective treatment for amantadine toxicity .
This study was conducted to develop a lycopene-carrier solid dispersion-loaded lipid liquid crystal nanoparticle ( LLC ) formulation aimed at enhancing aqueous solubility , bioavailability , and wound healing efficacy . Lycopene was extracted from tomato paste using the Soxhlet method and was formulated into solid dispersions with polyvinylpyrrolidone ( PVP ) and Poloxamer ( Plx ) to enhance the solubility of lycopene . The physicochemical properties of the solid dispersion products were characterized . Cytotoxicity on human fibroblast cells , cell migration , and wound healing treatment in the mice were also assessed . PVP demonstrated greater efficacy in enhancing the aqueous solubility of lycopene than Plx . The results indicated that the morphology of the LLC was cubosome , achieving a high encapsulation efficiency of 57 +/- 1% . The LLC formulations demonstrated significantly enhanced release rates of 18 +/- 78% and improved skin permeation compared to the lycopene solid dispersion solution . The results of the cell culture demonstrated the safety of the formulation , and the in vitro scratch test showed the migration of fibroblast cells in the presence of the lycopene-PVP solid dispersion loaded LLC compared to lycopene alone . Based on the obtained results , it can be concluded that the proposed formulation ( lycopene-PVP solid dispersion loaded LLC ) could be a suitable option for wound healing . FAU - Shahverdi , Farhad
A Gram-stain-negative coccobacillus , LMG 32992 ( T ) , was isolated from water that had collected in a tyre in Pingtung , Donggang Township , Taiwan . Upon preliminary 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis , it was most closely related to members of the genus Ralstonia ( 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities of 7-5% ) . The present study aimed to elucidate its taxonomic position and to propose a formal classification . To this end , the complete genome sequence was determined , and taxonomic , phylogenomic , metabolic and physiological analyses were performed . Comparative genomic analyses demonstrated that strain LMG 32992 ( T ) and another unclassified strain , Burkholderiaceae bacterium PBA , which was isolated earlier from textile wastewater in Malaysia , represented a single novel species within a novel genus of the family Burkholderiaceae . The G+C content of the LMG 32992 ( T ) genomic DNA was 77 mol% . Genomic analyses and growth tests demonstrated that LMG 32992 ( T ) had an asaccharolytic metabolism but that it was well-equipped to synthetize , if necessary autotrophically , and transform all required carbohydrates and that it used the Krebs and related cycles to generate reductive power for a heterotrophic energy metabolism . We propose the name Imbroritus primus gen . nov . , sp . nov . with strain LMG 32992 ( T ) ( =CIP 112179 ( T ) =BCRC 81361 ( T ) =A30B1 ( T ) ) as the type strain , for this novel taxon . FAU - Peeters , Charlotte
Caveolin is a monotopic integral membrane protein , widely expressed in metazoans and responsible for constructing enigmatic membrane invaginations known as caveolae . Recently , the high-resolution structure of a purified human caveolin assembly , the CAV1-8S complex , revealed a unique organization of 11 protomers arranged in a tightly packed , radially symmetric spiral disc . One face and the outer rim of this disc are hydrophobic , suggesting that the complex incorporates into membranes by displacing hundreds of lipids from one leaflet . The feasibility of this unique molecular architecture and its biophysical and functional consequences are currently unknown . Using Langmuir film balance measurements , we find that CAV1-8S is highly surface active , intercalating into lipid monolayers of various compositions . CAV1-8S can also incorporate into preformed bilayers , but only upon removal of phospholipids from the outer-facing leaflet . Atomistic and coarse-grained simulations of biomimetic bilayers support this " leaflet replacement " model and also reveal that CAV1-8S accumulates 40 to 70 cholesterol molecules into a disordered monolayer between the complex and its distal lipid leaflet . We find that CAV1-8S preferentially associates with positively curved membrane surfaces due to its influence on the conformations of distal leaflet lipids , and that these effects laterally sort lipids . Large-scale simulations of multiple caveolin assemblies confirmed their association with large , positively curved membrane morphologies consistent with the shape of caveolae . Further , association with curved membranes regulates the exposure of caveolin residues implicated in protein-protein interactions . Altogether , the unique structure of CAV1-8S imparts unusual modes of membrane interaction with implications for membrane organization , morphology , and physiology . FAU - Doktorova , Milka
BACKGROUND : Traffic-related air pollution ( TRAP ) is a risk factor for Alzheimer disease ( AD ) , where unresolved brain inflammation has been linked to deficits in the levels of free lipid mediators that enable the resolution of inflammation . It is unknown whether these deficits are due to reductions in esterified lipid pools , the main source of free bioactive pro-resolving lipids in the brain , and whether they are related AD pathophysiology . METHODS : This unknown was tested by measuring brain esterified lipid mediators and pathogenic markers of AD in TgF344-AD and wildtype ( WT ) male and female rats exposed to filtered air or TRAP for 14 months , and in human postmortem pre-frontal cortex of individuals with or without AD . RESULTS : Significant reductions in pro-resolving lipid mediators esterified to neutral lipids and/or phospholipids were seen in AD and TRAP-exposed female rats , where levels were associated with inflammation , synaptic loss and impaired glucose metabolism . Lower esterified pro-resolving lipid mediator concentrations were associated with older age in pre-frontal cortex of humans with AD . CONCLUSION : Impaired resolution in AD is due to depletion of esterified pro-resolving lipid pools that supply the brain with free bioactive mediators involved in inflammation resolution . TRAP exposure alters the same esterified resolution pathways , reflecting convergent mechanisms underlying AD . FAU - Taha , Ameer Y
Hypercholesterolemia is associated with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) , a leading cause of morbidity and mortality . Non-statin lipid-lowering therapies ( LLTs ) such as ezetimibe , proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( PCSK9 ) monoclonal antibodies ( mAbs ) , bempedoic acid , and inclisiran have been recommended in clinical guidelines to treat patients with ASCVD and/or high cardiovascular ( CV ) risk having elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) despite being treated with maximally tolerated doses ( MTD ) of statins . Our previously published network meta-analysis ( NMA ) 1 was updated in this study to evaluate comparative efficacy of non-statin LLTs in reducing LDL-C among patients with ASCVD and/or high CV risk receiving MTD statins . The systematic literature review previously conducted to inform our NMA was updated through January 2023 , wherein more recent clinical trials of non-statin LLTs ( ORION-15 , ORION-18 , HUA TUO ) and additional data on monthly dosing regimens for PCSK9 mAbs were included . The outcome of interest was percentage change in LDL-C at week Random-effects Bayesian NMA was performed . Comparative efficacy was estimated as mean difference ( MD ) with 95% credible interval ( CrI ) . A total of 20 trials were deemed relevant for the NMA . Consistent with the previous findings from our NMA , this study demonstrated that inclisiran provided superior efficacy in LDL-C lowering compared with ezetimibe and bempedoic acid ( MD : -24 [95% CrI : -84 , -70] ) . This NMA further reaffirmed that inclisiran provided comparable LDL-C reduction vs . alirocumab ( MD : -93% [95% CrI : -56 , 20] ) and evolocumab ( MD : 00% [95% CrI : -58 , 60] ) among patients with ASCVD and/or high CV risk on MTD statins .
Dysregulated lipid metabolism plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases . However , due to the lack of effective solutions , the dynamic monitoring and deep understanding of lipid metabolism in those disease progression has remained challenging . Herein , a polarity-sensitive , lipid droplets ( LDs ) -targeted probe was developed for spatiotemporal super-resolution imaging of lipid metabolism dynamics . Based on the stimulated emission depletion ( STED ) and fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy ( FLIM ) platform , we achieved the super-resolution visualization and dynamic tracking of the nonlinear fusion and expansion mechanisms of LDs in orthotopic pathology models-an unprecedented achievement in the field . We also analyzed lipid distribution in zebrafish models using the STED-FLIM platform to capture lipid metabolism at the organismal level . Crucially , based on the integrated STED-FLIM platform , this probe accurately monitors lipid metabolism in cellular and pathological tissue contexts of atherosclerosis and fatty liver . This breakthrough provides novel insights for diagnosing lipid metabolism-related diseases and advancing therapeutic development .
Growth hormone ( GH ) modulates normal growth and metabolism , and its effects are counteracted by somatostatin ( SST ) . Pasireotide ( PAS ) , an FDA-approved synthetic derivative of somatostatin , acts via binding to multiple somatostatin receptors , and it is commonly used in conditions unresponsive to first-generation somatostatin analogs . Herein we explore the potential of PAS to protect against endothelial dysfunction induced by lipopolysaccharides ( LPS ) . This is a bacterial toxin which causes inflammation and compromises endothelial barrier integrity . Endothelial cells were treated with PAS before LPS exposure to evaluate the corresponding effects on cell viability , inflammation , and barrier function . Since PAS suppressed LPS-triggered endothelial injury , it is suggested that this compound could be repurposed for endothelium-dependent disorder treatment .
OBJECTIVE : To assess the effects of human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells ( hUC-MSCs ) on mitochondrial damage and metabolic disorders induced by acute and chronic hypoxia in mouse kidneys . METHOD : Comprehensive analyses were conducted , including histopathology , mitochondrial morphology analysis , biochemical assessments , transcriptomics and metabolomics . RESULTS : The results revealed that hUC-MSCs significantly improved renal mitochondrial integrity and maintained mitochondrial dynamic balance under both acute and chronic hypoxia . This improvement was achieved by upregulating the expression of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator-1 alpha , which ultimately enhanced mitochondrial function . Furthermore , hUC-MSCs reprogrammed renal metabolic disorders , particularly improvements in urea and purine metabolic dysfunction , increased fatty acid oxidation and amelioration of lipid metabolic disorders . CONCLUSION : These findings suggest that hUC-MSCs could be part of a promising strategy for enhancing renal health and metabolic stability in individuals exposed to high altitudes or other hypoxic environments , highlighting their potential therapeutic value in addressing hypoxia-induced mitochondrial damage and renal metabolic disorders .
To understand the role of palmitic acid overload on renal physiology , we exposed female rats to palmitic acid ( PA ) beyond the physiological range reminiscent of a high-fat western diet . We then treated the rats with graded doses of lycopene ( Lyc ) to evaluate its potential remedial effect against PA-induced renal injury . Twenty-four rats were randomized into four groups as control ( received vehicles ; Free Fatty Acid Free Bovine Serum Albumin ( BSA ) and Olive oil ; PA only [received 5 mM BSA-complexed PA] ; while the other two groups received 10 and 20 mg/kg body weight of Lyc along with the BSA-complexed PA . The Olive oil-reconstituted Lyc was commenced at the seventh week of intraperitoneal PA injection ( uninterrupted ) until the nineth week . Our results show that palmitic acid PA overload caused renal lipid dystrophy , characterized by decreased cholesterol , triglycerides , and phospholipids . We also observed elevated activities of lactate dehydrogenase and decreased activity of alanine aminotransferase . The activities of superoxide dismutase , myeloperoxidase , and malondialdehyde levels increased , while glutathione peroxidase activity decreased significantly . Furthermore , PA-induced disruption of cellular electrolytes is characterized by decreased calcium , chloride , sodium , and magnesium ions , and elevated activities of Na ( + ) /K ( + ) , and Ca ( 2+ ) /Mg ( 2+ ) ATPases . Western blot analysis shows decreased Nrf2 expression , while NF- ( K ) B and Toll -Like Receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) increased . Furthermore , the mRNA expression of TLR4 , IL-6 , TNF-alpha , and IL-1beta increased , while IL-10 decreased in PA only group . However , Lyc treated groups exhibits meaningful ameliorative potentials by abating oxidative stress , inflammation , lipid dystrophy , and iono-dysregulation . This study suggests lycopene supplementation might abate PA -invoked disruption of lipid metabolism , inflammatory signal propagation and disruption of innate antioxidant systems in female albino rats .
INTRODUCTION : Physical inactivity contributes to non-communicable disease ( NCD ) health burden , making it essential to study and address this issue at a population level . The present research aims to explore the patterns of physical activity ( PA ) in Haryana through a subgroup analysis of the national Indian Council of Medical Research-India Diabetes ( ICMR-INDIAB ) study . METHODS : This study was conducted between December 2018 and July 2019 in Haryana and included 3918 adult participants . Physical activity was assessed using the validated MDRF Physical Activity Questionnaire ( MPAQ ) , which has domain-wise assessments of PA . Weighted prevalence was estimated using state-specific sampling weights , and associations between PA , anthropometric and biochemical profiles were assessed using bivariate analysis done using Student ' s unpaired t tests , one-way analysis of variance ( ANOVA ) , or chi-square tests . Factors describing the likelihood of being active were ascertained using a multivariable nominal regression analysis . RESULTS : About 73% of the study participants were physically inactive , and only 27% were moderately to vigorously active . The time spent in different PA domains varied significantly across sociodemographic variables , including sex , education , region , occupation , and socioeconomic status . Participants from the middle socioeconomic class spent more time in work-related PA , compared to low and upper-class participants who spent more time in general and transport-related PA . There were significant statistical differences between active and non-active groups concerning their mean blood glucose levels , body mass index , waist circumference and systolic blood pressure , but the differences in the lipid profile were non-significant . However , regression analysis showed higher odds of being physically active among younger participants , men , residents in rural areas , and those having fewer years of education . CONCLUSION : We highlight the alarmingly high prevalence of physical inactivity across different segments of society in Haryana with significant sociodemographic disparities . Considering the increasing prevalence of NCDs , it is high time to prioritise health promotion measures and inculcate more physical activity amongst the population to achieve health-related sustainable development goals .
Dermatological diseases such as acne , hidradenitis suppurativa ( HS ) , and psoriasis are driven by chronic inflammation and oxidative stress . Emerging evidence highlights the role of nutrition in modulating these conditions , particularly through dietary patterns rich in antioxidants , polyphenols , and unsaturated fatty acids . RECENT FINDINGS : The Mediterranean diet ( MedDiet ) has demonstrated potential benefits due to its anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory effects , while very low-energy ketogenic therapy ( VLEKT ) has shown promise in rapidly improving disease severity . Specific nutrients , including omega-3 fatty acids , probiotics , and micronutrients , may further contribute to disease management . However , the current literature is limited by small-scale studies and the lack of standardized dietary guidelines . PURPOSE OF REVIEW : This Consensus Statement , developed collaboratively by the Italian Association of Dietetics and Clinical Nutrition ( ADI ) , the Italian Society of Dermatology and Sexually Transmitted Diseases ( SIDeMaST ) , the Italian Society of Nutraceuticals ( SINut ) , Club Ketodiets and Nutraceuticals " KetoNut-SINut " and the Italian Society of Endocrinology ( SIE ) , Club Nutrition , Hormones and Metabolism , aimed to establish an evidence-based framework for medical nutrition therapy ( MNT ) of the most common inflammatory skin diseases , including acne , HS and psoriasis .
This study explored the potential of a newly isolated strain of Chlorella sorokiniana for dairy wastewater ( DWW ) phycoremediation and biodiesel production . Microalgae were cultivated in various dilutions of dairy wastewater ( 50% , 60% , 70% , 80% , and 90% ) and compared with growth in synthetic Amaral medium . The results demonstrated that C . sorokiniana exhibited robust growth across all wastewater dilutions , with the 90% dilution outperforming the synthetic medium in terms of cell concentration and biomass production ( 47 g/L/d ) . Chlorophyll a content increased with higher wastewater concentrations , peaking at 24 microg/L in 90% DWW . Lipid content analysis revealed the highest accumulation in 90% DWW , reaching 33% of the dry weight biomass . Fatty acid profiling revealed a predominance of palmitic acid ( C16 : 0 ) , oleic acid ( C18 : 1 ) , and linoleic acid ( C18 : 2 ) across all treatments . The proportion of saturated fatty acids slightly increased with higher wastewater concentrations , while monounsaturated fatty acids decreased and polyunsaturated fatty acids remained relatively stable . The results indicated that moderate dilution of 60% wastewater resulted in the highest nitrate removal efficiency ( 75% ) . Phosphate removal remained consistently high ( 85-98% ) across all dilutions . The biodiesel properties derived from wastewater-cultivated algae met the ASTM D6751 and EN14214 standards , with improvements in the cetane number and cloud point at higher wastewater concentrations . This study demonstrated the feasibility of using dairy wastewater as a cost-effective and sustainable medium for microalgal cultivation , offering the dual benefits of wastewater phycoremediation and high-quality biodiesel feedstock production . The findings highlight the potential for integrating algal cultivation with dairy industry waste management , contributing to circular economic principles in the biofuel sector .
Organic acids are increasingly being investigated as alternatives to zinc oxide ( ZnO ) in nursery pig diets . Monoglycerides can act in distal parts of the intestine , promoting intestinal health , also reducing bacterial fermentation in hindgut . This study aimed to determine the effects of dietary supplementation based on a blend of monoglycerides ( C4 : C8 : C10 ) ( MBLEND ) in replacement to ZnO during the nursery phase on growth-performance and intestinal health . Ninety-six piglets were used ( average weight 08 +/- 837 kg ) with 25 days of age during 42 days , divided into three treatments and eight replicates in a randomized block design . The treatments were : CON - Negative control ( basal diet without additive supplementation ) ; MBLEND - Fatty acids ( basal diet with monoglycerides blend ( C4 : C8 : C10 ) additive supplementation at 5 kg/ton in the pre-initial 1 and pre-initial 2 phases , 0 kg/ton in the initial 1 and initial 2 phases ) and ZnO - Zinc oxide ( basal diet with zinc oxide supplementation at 3000 ppm in the pre-initial 1 , pre-initial 2 and initial 1 phases , 2000 ppm in the initial 2 phase ) . Both ZnO and MBLEND groups did not influence ( P>05 ) growth performance during all phases . The inclusion of the MBLEND improved ( P<05 ) dry matter ( DM ) , crude protein ( CP ) , and ashes digestibility when compared to CON and ZnO groups . The use of ZnO reduced ( P<05 ) IL-1 beta cytokine expression in the piglets ' jejunal mucosa . ZnO increased evenness and affected beta-diversity ( P<05 ) compared to CON and MBLEND . The ZnO group increased Tannerellaceae , Bacteroidaceae , and Muribaculaceae families and reduced Escherichia Coli-Shigella and Desulfovibrio generas ( q<05 ) . Although there were similar results on growth performance , ZnO modulated cecal microbiota and reduced inflammatory ileal cytokines and MBLEND improved protein and ashes digestibility .
Sepsis is a serious condition resulting from a dysregulated immune-mediated response to an infection . Myeloid-derived suppressor cells ( MDSCs ) aggregate and serve a protective function in the pathophysiology of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) shock . However , the regulation of MDSCs by chrysin-loaded poly ( lactic-co-glycolic acid ) ( PLGA ) nanoparticles ( CHR-NP ) remains unexplored . CHR-NP was synthesized and characterized by Fourier transform infrared ( FTIR ) spectroscopy , transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) , zeta potential , and dynamic light scattering ( DLS ) . Before being given an intraperitoneal injection of 10 mg/kg of LPS , C57BL/6 mice were given CHR ( 50 mg/kg ) , PLGA ( 50 mg/kg ) , CHR-NP ( 50 mg/kg ) , and dexamethasone ( Dexa ) ( 5 mg/kg ) by oral administration for 6 days . CHR-NP effectively mitigated LPS-induced splenic injury by diminishing inflammation and oxidative stress . The CHR-NP treatment lowered the amount of malondialdehyde ( MDA ) and raised the levels of antioxidants like glutathione ( GSH ) , catalase ( CAT ) , and glutathione peroxidase ( GPx ) . Besides that , it stopped the production of cytokines that cause inflammation ( tumor necrosis factor ( TNF ) -alpha , IL-1beta , interferon ( IFN ) -gamma , and IL-12 ) and increased the production of cytokines that stop inflammation ( IL-10 and IL-4 ) . This study demonstrates that CHR-NPs confer significant protective effects against LPS-induced sepsis by modulating immune responses , reducing oxidative stress , and alleviating splenic injury . The ability of CHR-NP to enhance antioxidant defenses , suppress pro-inflammatory cytokines , and promote anti-inflammatory mediators highlights its potential as a novel therapeutic approach for regulating MDSCs and mitigating sepsis-related immunopathology .
BACKGROUND : Polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) is a multifactorial disorder associated with insulin resistance , hyperandrogenism , and metabolic dysfunction . Myo-inositol , a promising therapeutic alternative , may improve glucose and lipid metabolism through the 5 ' -adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) -glucose transporter type 4 ( GLUT4 ) pathway . This study aimed to investigate the molecular and metabolic effects of Myo-inositol in a letrozole-induced rat model of PCOS . METHODS AND RESULTS : We divided rats into six groups : controls , PCOS , and different doses of Myo-inositol- or metformin-treated groups . We examined the rat blood glucose , insulin , lipid profiles , and hormone levels alongside ovarian histology and AMPK/GLUT4 expression via polymerase chain reaction and western blotting assays . Myo-inositol treatment demonstrated dose-dependent improvements in glucose homeostasis , lipid profiles , and GLUT4 expression , with high-dose treatment reducing glucose by 85-fold and improving lipid metabolism compared to metformin treatment . Ovarian histology revealed partial restoration of follicular development , and AMPK activation supported enhanced glucose uptake . CONCLUSIONS : Myo-inositol effectively alleviated insulin resistance and metabolic dysfunction , offering a promising alternative to conventional PCOS treatments .
OBJECTIVE : This randomized clinical trial evaluated a copaiba oil-based gel in controlling dental sensitivity ( DS ) and color change after dental bleaching . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Seventy-five volunteers were randomized into three groups ( n = 25 ) : GC ( placebo gel - negative control ) ; GKF2% ( gel of 5% potassium nitrate and 2% sodium fluoride - positive control ) ; and GCO ( copaiba oil gel ) . Three bleaching sessions were performed using 35% hydrogen peroxide ( HP 35% ) , with 7-day intervals . The desensitizing gels were applied for 10 min in each group . The DS was evaluated over 21 days using a visual analog scale ( VAS ) . Color evaluation was done with a spectrophotometer before and after bleaching using the CIEDE The DS was assessed between groups ( Kruskal-Wallis test ) and within groups ( Friedman test ) . The color change was analyzed using one-way ANOVA and Tukey ' s test . RESULTS : GCO and GKF2% showed the lowest sensitivity values , with no significant difference ( p < 05 ) . In the intragroup analysis , GCO and GKF2% showed no differences across the three whitening sessions ( p = 974 , p = 213 , p = 143 , respectively ) . Conversely , GC exhibited an increase in DS after the last session ( p = 035 ) . All groups showed color change , without statistically significant differences between the groups ( p = 725 ) . CONCLUSION : The copaiba gel reduced dental sensitivity after treatment with 35% hydrogen peroxide , without affecting the bleaching effectiveness . CLINICAL RELEVANCE : The topical application of the experimental copaiba oil gel was effective in reducing dental sensitivity after bleaching with 35% hydrogen peroxide .
PURPOSE : To reveal the function of autophagy impairment-derived sequestosome 1 ( SQSTM1 ) in inducing ferroptosis in an experimental dry eye model and investigate the underlying mechanism . METHODS : To induce the dry eye animal model , 8-week-old C57BL/6 mice were subcutaneously injected with scopolamine and exposed to a desiccated environment . To build the in vitro dry eye model , human corneal epithelial cells ( HCECs ) were applied with desiccating stress . Cell viability was examined using a CCK-8 kit . Intracellular reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , oxidative lipid , and Fe2+ were detected using the H2DCFDA assay kit , C11 BODIPY probe , and FerroOrange probe . Gene expression was screened by RNA sequencing . Protein expression was evaluated by western blot and immunofluorescence staining . Corneal defect area was assessed by fluorescein sodium staining . Conjunctiva goblet cells were counted by periodic acid-Schiff staining . Tear secretion was measured using phenol red cotton thread . RESULTS : Desiccating stress induced ferroptosis and SQSTM1 accumulation in both HCECs and C57BL/6 mice . SQSTM1 knockdown alleviated ferroptosis in HCECs . In contrast , the overexpression of SQSTM1 promoted ferroptotic changes . Additionally , overexpression of SQSTM1 significantly increased acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) . Also , targeted inhibition of ACSL4 mitigated the dry eye symptoms and ferroptosis caused by both SQSTM1 overexpression and desiccating stress . CONCLUSIONS : The accumulation of SQSTM1 triggers corneal epithelial cells ferroptosis through ACSL4 in dry eye disease . FAU - Zhang , Runze
Trapped Ion Mobility Spectrometry ( TIMS ) has demonstrated promising potential as a powerful discriminating method when coupled with mass spectrometry , enhancing the precision of feature annotation . Such a technique is particularly valuable for lipids , where a large number of isobaric but structurally distinct molecular species often coexist within the same sample matrix . In this study , we explored the potential of ion mobility for ether lipid isomer differentiation . Mammalian ether phospholipids are characterized by a fatty alcohol residue at the sn-1 position of their glycerol backbone . They can make up to 20% of the total phospholipid mass and are present in a broad range of tissues . There they are , for example , crucial for nervous system function , membrane homeostasis , and inter- as well as intracellular signaling . Molecular ether lipid species are difficult to distinguish analytically , as they occur as 1-O-alkyl and 1-O-alkenyl subclasses , with the latter being also known as plasmalogens . Isomeric ether lipid pairs can be separated with reversed-phase chromatography . However , their precise identification remains challenging due to the lack of clear internal reference points , inherent to the nature of lipid profiles and the lack of sufficient commercially available standard substances . Here , we demonstrate horizontal line with focus on phosphatidylethanolamines horizontal line that ion mobility measurements allow to discriminate between the ether lipid subclasses through distinct differences in their gas phase geometries . This approach offers significant advantages as it does not depend on potential retention time differences between different chromatographic systems . However , the current resolution in the ion mobility dimension is not sufficient to baseline separate 1-O-alkyl and 1-O-alkenyl isobars , and the observed differences are not yet accurately represented in existing collision cross section databases . Despite these challenges , the predictable properties of the ion mobility behavior of ether lipid species can significantly support their accurate annotation and hold promise for future advancements in lipid research . FAU - Koch , Jakob
The ATG9 transmembrane protein scrambles lipids to regulate phagophore formation during autophagy . Two recent studies from Peng et al . ( https : //doi . org/1083/jcb . 202411092 ) and De Tito et al . ( https : //doi . org/1101/604321 ) identify ATG9 as a conserved regulator of lysosome repair in Caenorhabditis elegans and human cells , but differences in repair mechanisms exist between these taxa .
Vitamin D is thought to be safe due to its wide therapeutic index and concentrations are rarely raised to toxic levels in the blood . However , excessive vitamin D supplementation can lead to hypervitaminosis D , causing hypercalcaemia and hyperphosphataemia . Due to its lipid solubility , vitamin D can be stored in adipose tissue , leading to persistent hypercalcaemia , even after supplementation has been discontinued . This case reports an 81-year-old female patient who developed hypervitaminosis D after taking excessive vitamin D supplementation for 30 years . The patient presented with complex bilateral leg wounds and tissue calcification . This case highlights the importance of monitoring vitamin D supplementation and the risks associated with hypervitaminosis D , including soft tissue calcification . FAU - Jessop , Thomas Steve
Upon activation , platelets undergo rapid phenotypic transitions to maintain hemostasis , yet the kinetics governing these transitions remain poorly quantified . We present an integrated experimental and mathematical model describing platelet transitions between resting , activated , aggregating , inhibited , and exhausted phenotypes , determined by experiment rate constants for these reactions . Theoretical simulations of platelet transitions accurately describe the independently determined experimental read-out . Platelet aggregation under the conditions used directly correlates with the activation of alphaIIbbeta3 integrins , demonstrating that the parameters of platelet aggregation achieved by the laser diffraction technique can be used for the evaluation of the rapid activation and deactivation kinetics of alphaIIbbeta3 integrins . We demonstrate that platelet desensitization occurs at multiple activation stages , with distinct kinetic profiles for shape change and integrin deactivation . We also show that even 5 s of receptor-mediated PKA activation ( iloprost ) is sufficient for a complete inhibition of ADP-induced platelet aggregation . However , when iloprost was added after platelet stimulation by ADP , platelet activation was not fully inhibited , and after 180 s , aggregation became irreversible . The presented data help to understand the mechanisms of platelet transition between different phenotypes . The model effectively characterizes key physiological phenotypes and can serve as a modular framework for integration into more comprehensive models . FAU - Gerda , Bogdan
Upper tract urothelial carcinoma ( UTUC ) presents aggressive features and a tumor microenvironment with T cell depletion . However , the role of tumor-associated neutrophils in UTUC remains unclear . This study aimed to investigate how UTUC tumor-derived factors modulate neutrophils and their impact on T cell immune responses . Our findings demonstrate that UTUC secreted tumor-derived factors , with apolipoprotein A1 ( Apo-A1 ) being the predominant factor , which upregulated arginase-1 expression in neutrophils . STAT3 activation was responsible for the upregulation of arginase-1 in neutrophils . Blocking the interactions between Apo-A1 and its receptors reduced arginase-1 expression in neutrophils treated with tumor tissue culture supernatant ( TTCS ) . Moreover , both CD4 ( + ) T and CD8 ( + ) T cell proliferation were inhibited by neutrophils treated with Apo-A1 or TTCS . Importantly , blocking Apo-A1 signaling in neutrophils reversed the inhibitory effects on T cells . In UTUC patients , the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio was higher than that in healthy subjects . The expression of arginase-1 in neutrophils and the level of Apo-A1 within UTUC tumors were negatively correlated with tumor-infiltrating CD4 ( + ) T cells . Additionally , neutrophils from UTUC patients showed increased expression of arginase-1 and exhibited inhibitory effects of T cell functions . These findings suggest that UTUC orchestrates an immune-suppressive microenvironment through Apo-A1-mediated upregulation of arginase-1 in neutrophils , ultimately leading to the inhibition of T cell proliferation . FAU - Chang , Chih-Chia
BACKGROUND : Nardostachys jatamansi DC . ( Gansong ) , a widely utilized herb in traditional Chinese medicine , has been historically employed in the management of various neuropsychiatric disorders . Nardosinone ( Nar ) , a sesquiterpenoid compound , has been identified as one of the principal bioactive constituents of N . jatamansi . This study investigated the effects of ethyl acetate extract ( NJ-1A ) from N . jatamansi and its active constituent nardosinone on neuroinflammatory mediator release , glucose metabolic reprogramming , and T cell migration using both in vitro and in vivo experimental models . METHODS : Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced BV-2 microglial cells and a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1 , 2 , 3 , 6-tetrahydropyridine/probenecid ( MPTP/p ) -induced male C57BL/6N mouse chronic model of Parkinson ' s disease were applied . RESULTS : Both NJ-1A and Nar could significantly suppress LPS-induced production of M1 pro-inflammatory factors or markers in microglia and could inhibit the glycolytic process and promote oxidative phosphorylation via the AKT/mTOR signaling pathway . Furthermore , they exhibited the capacity to attenuate chemokine release from activated microglia , consequently reducing T cell migration . In vivo experiments revealed that NJ-1A and Nar effectively inhibited microglial activation , diminished T cell infiltration , and mitigated the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase ( TH ) -positive dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of MPTP-induced mice . CONCLUSIONS : NJ-1A and nardosinone exert neuroprotective effects through the modulation of microglial polarization states , regulation of metabolic reprogramming , and suppression of T cell infiltration . FAU - Duan , Congyan
Chronic cold exposure is a stressor that may adversely affect the hippocampal structure and cognitive function . Critical for memory formation and learning processes , the hippocampus is particularly susceptible to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( HPA ) axis activity and elevated glucocorticoid levels . Vitamin D plays a complex role in regulating mitochondrial function and may provide neuroprotection . This study aimed to investigate the effects of chronic cold exposure on proteins associated with signaling pathways , mitochondrial function , and oxidative stress in the hippocampus of rats and to evaluate the neuroprotective potential of vitamin D3 supplementation . Male Wistar rats ( n = 26 ) were assigned to four groups : control ( CON ; n = 4 ) , sham stress ( WW ; n = 6 ) , chronic cold water immersion ( CCWI ) ( CW group ; n = 8 ) , and CCWI with 600 IU/kg/day vitamin D3 ( VD3 ) supplementation ( CW + D group ; n = 8 ) . Exposure to CCWI significantly reduced the hippocampal mass of rats , an effect not reversed by vitamin D3 supplementation . However , vitamin D3 improved mitochondrial function and exhibited antioxidant effects , partially reducing markers of protein and lipid free radicals damage in neural tissue . Our findings demonstrate the antioxidant properties of VD3 and its potential role in mitigating hippocampal damage during prolonged cold exposure , although its neuroprotective effects remain limited . FAU - Korewo-Labelle , Daria
Inherited metabolic disorders ( IMDs ) are genetic disorders that occur in as many as 1 : 2500 births worldwide . Nevertheless , they are quite rare individually and even more rare is the co-occurrence of two IMDs in one individual . To better understand the metabolic cross-talk between glycosylation changes and deficient energy metabolism , and its potential effect on outcomes , we evaluated patient fibroblasts with likely pathogenic variants in PGM1 and pathogenic variants in NDUFA13 derived from a patient who passed away at 16 years of age . The patient presented with characteristic of PGM1-CDG including bifid uvula , muscle involvement , abnormal glycosylation in blood , and elevated liver transaminases . In addition , hearing loss , seizures , elevated plasma and CSF lactate and a Leigh-like MRI brain pattern were present , which are commonly associated with Leigh syndrome . PGM1-CDG has been reported in about 70 individuals , while NDUFA13 deficiency has so far only been reported in 13 patients . As abundant energy is essential for glycosylation , and both PGM1 and NDUFA13 are linked to energy metabolism , we sought to better understand the underlying biochemical cause of the patient ' s clinical presentation . To do so , we performed extensive investigations including tracer metabolomics , lipidomics and enzymatic studies on the patient ' s fibroblasts . We found a profound depletion of UDP-hexoses , consistent with PGM1-CDG . Complex I enzyme activity and mitochondrial function were also impaired , corroborating complex I deficiency and Leigh syndrome . Further , lipidomics analysis showed similarities with both PGM1-CDG and OXPHOS-deficient patients . Based on our results , the patient was diagnosed with both PGM1-CDG and Leigh syndrome . In summary , we present the first case of combined CDG and Leigh syndrome , caused by ( likely ) pathogenic variants in PGM1 and NDUFA13 , and underline the importance of considering the synergistic effects of multiple disease-causing variants in patients with complex clinical presentation , leading to the patient ' s early demise . FAU - Radenkovic , Silvia
Caveolae are distinctive , flask-shaped structures within the cell membrane that play critical roles in cellular signal transduction , ion homeostasis , and mechanosensation . These structures are composed of the caveolin protein family and are enriched in cholesterol and sphingolipids , creating a unique lipid microdomain . Caveolae contribute to the functional regulation of various ion channels through both physical interactions and involvement in complex signaling networks . Ion channels localized within caveolae are involved in critical cellular processes such as the generation and propagation of action potentials , cellular responses to mechanical forces , and regulation of metabolism . Dysregulation of caveolae function has been linked to the development of various diseases , including cardiovascular disorders , neurodegenerative diseases , metabolic syndrome , and cancer . This review summarizes the ion channel function and regulation in caveolae , and their pathological implications , offering new insights into their potential as therapeutic targets for ion channel-related diseases . FAU - Huo , Jianyi
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Alcohol-related liver disease ( ALD ) is a major cause of mortality and disability-adjusted life years . It is not fully understood why a small proportion of patients develop progressive forms of ALD ( e . g . , fibrosis and cirrhosis ) . Differences in the metabolic processes could be behind the individual progression of ALD . Our aim was to examine differences in serum metabolome between patients with nonprogressive ALD and patients with an early form of progressive ALD . METHODS : The study had three study groups : progressive ALD ( alcohol-related steatohepatitis or early-stage fibrosis , n = 50 ) , nonprogressive ALD ( simple steatosis , n = 50 ) and healthy controls ( n = 32 ) . Both ALD groups took part in a voluntary alcohol rehabilitation programme . A nontargeted metabolomics analysis and targeted analysis of short-chain fatty acids were done to the serum samples taken on the day of admission . RESULTS : We found 111 significantly ( p < 0005 ) altered identified metabolites between the study groups . Our main finding was that levels of glycine-conjugated bile acids ( Cohen ' s d = 90-91 ) , glutamic acid ( d = 01 ) , 7-methylguanine ( d = 77 ) and several phosphatidylcholines ( d = 61-85 ) were elevated in the progressive ALD group in comparison to the nonprogressive ALD group . Glycine-conjugated bile acids , glutamic acid and 7-methylguanine also positively correlated with increased levels of aspartate aminotransferase , alanine aminotransferase , gamma-glutamyl transferase , cell death biomarker M65 and liver stiffness . CONCLUSIONS : Our results indicate that the enterohepatic cycle of glycine-conjugated bile acids , as well as lipid and energy metabolism , is altered in early forms of progressive ALD . These metabolic processes could be a target for preventing the progression of ALD .
The objective of this study is to assess the impact of a combined turmeric ( Curcuma longa L . ) and allspice ( Pimenta dioica L . Merril ) supplement ( TAS ) , on obesity , hypertriglyceridemia , hyperglycemia , and insulin resistance through inhibition of carbohydrate and lipid absorption . In vitro assessments demonstrated that TAS inhibits key enzymes implicated in the carbohydrate and lipid absorption . Oral starch and lipid tolerance tests showed that combined supplement reduced lipid ( approximately 47% TAS ) and carbohydrate absorption ( approximately 33% ) compared to the negative control . In a 36-week diet-induced obesity model , intervention with TAS was found that reduced body weight gain ( approximately 18% ) , lower triglycerides ( approximately 35% ) , and fasting glucose levels ( approximately 14% ) compared to obese control . Furthermore , TAS-treated rats showed reduced oral glucose tolerance test values ( approximately 25% ) , insulin levels ( approximately 14% ) , and insulin resistance ( approximately 14% ) . Our results suggest that TAS enhances carbohydrate and lipid absorption while effectively improving hypertriglyceridemia , hyperglycemia , and insulin resistance in obese rats . FAU - Barragan-Zuniga , Jazel
OBJECTIVE : This study aims to investigate the effectiveness of emotion regulation training ( ERT ) based on Gross ' s process model combined with medication therapy on mania severity , depression , and emotion regulation of adults with bipolar disorder ( BD ) type METHODS : This is a randomized , controlled clinical trial on 37 adults ( 26 females and 11 males ) with BD type 1 ( depressive phase ) assigned to two parallel groups of medication + ERT ( n = 19 ) and medication ( n = 18 ) . Their mania , depression , and emotion regulation were measured by the Young mania rating scale ( YMRS ) , the Hamilton depression rating scale ( HDRS ) , and the emotion regulation questionnaire ( ERQ ) before , immediately after and 3 months after the intervention . The medication therapy included the uptake of mood stabilizers ( 2-5 tablets of lithium 300 mg , sodium valproate 200 mg and carbamazepine 200 mg ) two times per day . The ERT was provided 2 months after receiving mood stabilizers at 8 sessions for 4 weeks , according to Gross ' s model . After collecting data , they were analysed in SPSS v . 26 software . RESULTS : The difference between the two groups was statistically significant over time in the YMRS ( p < 001 , eta = 42 ) and HDRS ( p = 007 , eta = 19 ) scores , where more significant reductions were reported in the medication + ERT group and maintained for 3 months . Regarding the ERQ score , a significant difference between groups was observed only in the cognitive reappraisal domain ( p < 001 , eta = 302 ) and in the total score ( p = 001 , eta = 227 ) over time , where significant improvements were reported in the medication + ERT group and maintained for 3 months . CONCLUSION : The augmentation of medication therapy with the Gross model-based ERT can lead to a higher decrease in mania and depression and an increase in emotion regulation ( cognitive reappraisal ) of depressed adults with BD type
ObjectiveThis study aimed to explore the risk factors for colorectal sessile serrated lesions and construct a risk nomogram model . MethodsPatients were enrolled retrospectively from the Affiliated Xuzhou Municipal Hospital of Xuzhou Medical University from January 2019 to September 2023 and randomized to the training and validation sets at a ratio of 7 : The predictors for constructing the nomogram model were screened via univariate analysis and multivariate logistic regression analysis . Subsequently , the performance of the model was evaluated . ResultsMultivariate logistic regression analysis revealed that age , history of smoking , history of alcohol consumption , and triglyceride-glucose index were independent risk factors for colorectal sessile serrated lesions ( p < 05 ) . The area under the curve values of the nomogram model in the training and validation sets were 715 ( 95% confidence interval : 676-753 ) and 742 ( 95% confidence interval : 669-815 ) , respectively . The calibration curves showed good homogeneity between the predicted and actual values . Decision curve analysis showed that this nomogram model can achieve positive clinical benefits . ConclusionsAge , history of smoking , history of alcohol consumption , and triglyceride-glucose index are independent predictors of colorectal sessile serrated lesions . This nomogram model may predict the risk of colorectal sessile serrated lesions . FAU - Huang , Sihui
Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) is an essential fatty acid for the central nervous system . It plays a crucial role in brain health and the prevention of neurodegenerative diseases , particularly in its phospholipid form , which has greater bioavailability . Previous studies , conducted by our group , enabled the enzymatic synthesis of pure disubstituted DHA phospholipids ( 1 , 2-Di-DHA-PC ) . In the present study , the inhibitory activities of 1 , 2-Di-DHA-PC on acetylcholinesterase ( AChE ) and its antioxidant capacity were evaluated . The results showed that 1 , 2-Di-DHA-PC exhibited significant inhibition of the AChE enzyme . Moreover , 1 , 2-Di-DHA-PC showed antioxidant capacity compared to ascorbic acid , a natural antioxidant par excellence . These findings highlight the therapeutic potential of 1 , 2-Di-DHA-PC in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases and its ability to offer protection against the lipid peroxidation of the neuronal aging process , one of the main drivers of neurodegeneration , suggesting the need for further studies to confirm its clinical applicability .
BACKGROUND : Liver disorders pose a considerable global health challenge , accompanied by rising mortality rates . Current therapeutic strategies , though effective , often face limitations due to adverse effects and therapeutic resistance , prompting the exploration of alternative treatments , particularly safer natural compounds . Rutin , a widely available bioflavonoid , has emerged as a promising candidate owing to its varied pharmacological properties . METHODS : We conducted a comprehensive search on PubMed and Web of Science using the following keywords : ' rutin ' , ' liver diseases ' , ' hepatoprotection ' , ' clinical observations ' , ' mechanisms , pharmacology ' and various combinations of these terms . RESULTS : This review systematically examines rutin ' s therapeutic potential in hepatic disorders , focusing on its molecular mechanisms , particularly its effects on inflammatory pathways , oxidative stress and hepatocellular protection . CONCLUSION : We analyse existing evidence supporting rutin ' s hepatoprotective efficacy , identify its cellular and molecular targets and evaluate its potential applications in various liver diseases . Our systematic analysis provides theoretical support for developing rutin-based therapies in hepatic disease management and identifies future research directions and clinical applications .
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to compare the lipid-lowering effect and safety of low-intensity atorvastatin ( 5 mg ) plus ezetimibe ( 10 mg ) combination therapy ( A5E10 ) with monotherapy regimens-atorvastatin 5 mg [A5] , ezetimibe 10 mg [E10] , and atorvastatin 10 mg [A10] ) -in dyslipidemia patients . METHODS : A randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled trial involving 252 dyslipidemia patients was conducted at 25 centers in South Korea ( NCT05970679 ) . Participants aged >/= 19 years were randomized into four groups : A5E10 , A5 , E10 , and A The primary endpoint was the percentage change in low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels from baseline to 8 weeks . Secondary endpoints included changes in other lipid parameters , lipid ratios , LDL-C goal achievement rates and safety assessments . RESULTS : The mean age of the patients was 63 years , and 2% were male . The A5E10 group showed significantly greater LDL-C reduction ( 6% ) compared with A5 ( 4% ) , E10 ( 4% ) , and A10 ( 1% ) at 8 weeks ( p < 0001 ) . A5E10 also significantly reduced triglyceride , non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and apolipoprotein B levels . In addition , a significant reduction in LDL-C levels was observed over the 4 weeks , with a 7% reduction in LDL-C levels after 4 weeks of A5E10 administration . No severe adverse events were observed in the A5E10 group . CONCLUSION : The combination of low-intensity atorvastatin and ezetimibe was more effective than moderate-intensity atorvastatin monotherapy in lowering LDL-C levels and improving other lipid parameters . It was well-tolerated and demonstrated rapid benefits within a month , offering a promising alternative for patients with low to moderate cardiovascular risk who do not achieve adequate control with statin monotherapy .
INTRODUCTION : Sedentary behavior may be a modifiable risk factor for Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . We examined how sedentary behavior relates to longitudinal brain structure and cognitive changes in older adults . METHODS : Vanderbilt Memory and Aging Project participants ( n = 404 ) completed actigraphy ( 7 days ) , neuropsychological assessment , and 3T brain MRI over a 7-year period . Cross-sectional and longitudinal linear regressions examined sedentary time in relation to brain structure and cognition . Models were repeated testing for effect modification by apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) epsilon4 status . RESULTS : In cross-sectional models , greater sedentary time related to a smaller AD-neuroimaging signature ( beta = -0001 , p = 01 ) and worse episodic memory ( beta = -001 , p = 003 ) . Associations differed by APOE-epsilon4 status . In longitudinal models , greater sedentary time related to faster hippocampal volume reductions ( beta = -1 , p = 008 ) and declines in naming ( beta = -001 , p = 03 ) and processing speed ( beta = -003 , p = 02 ; beta = 01 , p = 01 ) . DISCUSSION : Results support the importance of reducing sedentary time , particularly among aging adults at genetic risk for AD . HIGHLIGHTS : Greater sedentary behavior is related to neurodegeneration and worse cognition . Associations differed by APOE-epsilon4 carrier status in cross-sectional models . Sedentary behavior is an independent risk factor for Alzheimer ' s disease .
Trans fatty acids ( TFAs ) are potential health risk factors generated during food processing , and their mechanisms of association with digestive diseases remain incompletely elucidated . This study focused on elaidic acid ( EA ) , integrating computational toxicology and molecular docking to systematically analyze its molecular mechanisms in regulating functional dyspepsia ( FD ) , gastric cancer ( GC ) , nonalcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) , and colorectal cancer ( CRC ) through multi-target networks . Protein Interaction Networks were constructed by screening EA and disease-intersecting targets , enriching and analyzing key pathways , and validating the binding ability of core targets . Results showed that EA shared 22 , 67 , 56 , and 72 common targets with FD , GC , NAFLD , and CRC , respectively . Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses indicated that EA acts through pathways including lipid metabolism dysregulation , inflammatory response , and chemical carcinogenesis-receptor activation . Molecular docking confirmed binding affinities between EA and core targets . The present study suggests that EA may promote the progression of digestive diseases through a multi-target-multi-pathway model , providing a new perspective for the study of the toxicity mechanism of TFA and food safety prevention and control . FAU - Yu , Chenyang
BACKGROUND : Many patients with diabetes do not accept statin therapy despite being at increased risk for cardiovascular events compared with the general population . The effects of delaying statin therapy are not well-understood . METHODS : This is a retrospective cohort study that followed adults with diabetes and no preexisting atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease at the Mass General Brigham integrated health system between 2000 and The exposure was immediate versus delayed statin acceptance by patients who were recommended statin therapy . The primary outcome was the composite incidence of myocardial infarction and ischemic stroke . RESULTS : Among the 7239 study patients , the median age was 0 years , and 0% were women . Within this cohort , 1280 ( 7% ) delayed statin therapy by a mean+/-SD of 7+/-1 years . Patients who delayed statin therapy had higher mean low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels while they were not prescribed a statin ( 4 versus 2 mg/dL , P<001 ) . The cumulative 10-year rate of myocardial infarctions and ischemic strokes was 4% for patients who initiated statins immediately versus 5% for patients who delayed statin therapy ( P=001 ) . In a multivariable analysis adjusted for demographic characteristics and comorbidities , statin nonacceptance was an independent risk factor for myocardial infarction and ischemic stroke ( hazard ratio [HR] , 49 [95% CI , 16-90] ; P=002 ) . Mediation analysis showed that greater low-density lipoprotein cholesterol exposure induced a higher incidence of adverse cardiovascular events ( HR , 62 [95% CI , 46-80] ; P<001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Among patients with diabetes , patients who delayed statin therapy had a significantly higher cardiovascular risk ; this relationship was mediated by higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . These findings underscore the importance of timely lipid-lowering for this high-risk patient population and can help guide decision-making by patients and clinicians . FAU - Shah , Nisarg
Non-ionic detergents are key reagents for the characterization of membrane protein drug targets . Suitable detergents are commonly identified by trial and error , which leads to failed preparations and raising costs . Recent findings suggest that not only the chemistry of detergents but also the strategy with which detergents and proteins are brought together impact the successes of investigations . To facilitate the future development of non-ionic detergents in membrane protein research , herein , we review chemical design concepts and detergent exchange strategies for a successful integration of detergents into the analysis of challenging membrane protein complexes . Our overview reveals exciting opportunities to tackle existing challenges , including the stabilization of G-protein coupled receptors , the development of fluorinated detergents for studying protein-lipid binding , top-down design of detergents , and hybrid detergents for the identification of non-canonical lipid associations to proteins with relevance to antibiotic research . Our review will facilitate the development of chemical tools for the biophysical characterization of membrane proteins and support the discovery of biological findings in the future .
BACKGROUND : The relationship between dietary patterns ( DP ) and health outcomes ( elevated blood pressure , dyslipidaemia , hyperglycaemia , and body mass index ) among adolescents and young adults ( AYA ) with HIV is not well understood . We aimed to identify dietary patterns and determinants associated with metabolic syndrome components among adolescents and young adults living with HIV in Lagos , Nigeria . METHODS : We conducted a cross-sectional study among 180 participants at an ART clinic in Lagos . Information on sociodemographic and clinical characteristics , as well as 72-hour dietary recall were collected . Anthropometric measurements ( BMI ( kg/m ) ) and blood pressure readings were collected . Blood samples were assayed for fasting blood sugar and lipid profiles . Statistical analysis was done using SPSS version 27 , WHO Anthro Plus software . RESULTS : The male-to-female ratio was 1 : Four major DPs identified were DP 1 ( higher consumption of beverages , vitamins , and vegetables ) ; DP 2 ( high intake of minerals , and fruits ) ; DP3 ( higher intake of carbohydrates , fat and oil ) ; and DP4 ( higher intake alcohol and vegetables ) . DP1 was associated with dyslipidaemia , underweight BMI and hyperglycaemia were associated with DP4 , while DP2 had lower odds of overweight and elevated blood pressure . CONCLUSION : This outcome provides valuable insights into DPs and their association with metabolic co-morbidity among AYA with HIV . This will inform nutritional counselling and interventions to promote quality of life and health .
OBJECTIVE : Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma ( DLBCL ) as among the most common lymphomas is associated with insulin resistance ( IR ) . The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index , generally considered a surrogate marker for IR , has an uncertain prognostic value in DLBCL . METHODS : We conducted a retrospective analysis of DLBCL patients who received R-CHOP therapy at the Second Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University from January 2011 to December Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses were performed to identify independent prognostic factors for overall survival ( OS ) . Boruta algorithm was employed to strengthen the robustness of our analysis . Restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) analysis was used to explore the potential nonlinear relationship between the TyG index and OS . Subgroup analyses were conducted to assess the prognostic value of the TyG index across different patient subgroups . Finally , a nomogram model based on the TyG index was developed , and its predictive performance was evaluated using the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve ( AUROC ) , calibration curves , and decision curve analysis ( DCA ) . RESULTS : A total of 186 DLBCL patients were included in this study . Univariate and multivariate Cox regression analyses identified the TyG index , Age , ECOG performance status , Ann Arbor stage , and lactate dehydrogenase levels as independent prognostic factors for DLBCL . The Boruta algorithm confirmed these variables as the most important prognostic factors . Kaplan-Meier analysis revealed significantly poorer OS in the high TyG index group . RCS analysis demonstrated a non-linear relationship between the TyG index and OS . Subgroup analyses further validated the TyG index as a significant prognostic factor across various patient subgroups . The TyG-based nomogram model outperformed the conventional International Prognostic Index ( IPI ) , with AUROCs of 878 , 809 , and 867 for 1-year , 3-year , and 5-year OS , respectively . Calibration curves showed good agreement between the nomogram predictions and actual outcomes , and DCA highlighted the high clinical utility of the model . CONCLUSION : The TyG index is an independent prognostic factor in DLBCL patients , and the TyG-based nomogram model provides enhanced predictive accuracy compared to the IPI . Its simplicity and low cost make it a valuable tool for routine clinical prognostic assessment in DLBCL patients .
BACKGROUND : Rosacea is a common chronic inflammatory skin disease . Limited studies reported the association between plasma lipidome and rosacea . METHODS : We employed a two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) study to assess the causality between plasma lipidome and rosacea . Plasma lipidome association genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) data were collected . The inverse variance weighted ( IVW ) method was utilized as the principal method in our Mendelian randomization ( MR ) study ; we also used the MR-Egger , weighted median , simple mode , and weighted mode methods . The MR-Egger intercept test , Cochran ' s Q test , MR-Pleiotropy RESidual Sum and Outlier ( MR-PRESSO ) , and leave-one-out analysis were conducted to identify heterogeneity and pleiotropy . RESULTS : A total of 179 lipid species were analyzed ; among them , five lipid species were closely related to rosacea . Two species of sterol ester [sterol ester ( 27 : 1/22 : 6 ) and sterol ester ( 27 : 1/15 : 0 ) ] , two species of phosphatidylethanolamine [phosphatidylethanolamine ( O-18 : 2_20 : 4 ) and phosphatidylethanolamine ( 18 : 0_20 : 4 ) ] , and one species of sphingomyelin [sphingomyelin ( d34 : 0 ) ] were causally associated with rosacea ( P < 05 ) . All of them play protective roles in patients with rosacea . No heterogeneity or pleiotropy was observed . CONCLUSION : This study provided new evidence of the relationship between plasma lipidome and rosacea . Our MR suggested that five lipid species play protective roles in rosacea progression . These could be novel and effective ways to treat rosacea .
BACKGROUND : PCSK9 plays a key role in raising LDL-C levels , which contributes to heart attacks ( MI ) . However , studies show that about half of MI patients have normal LDL-C levels . This study aims to explore the link between PCSK9 , heart function , and oxidative stress markers in MI patients . METHODS : This investigation was carried out at Tehran Heart Centre Hospital on healthy individuals ( n=63 ) and patients ( n=63 ) with MI who had a coronary artery block above 50% ( CAB > 50% ) . Oxidative stress ( OS ) parameters , such as total antioxidant capacity ( TAC ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , myeloperoxidase ( MPO ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , catalase ( CAT ) , and glutathione peroxidase ( GPx ) activity , PCSK9 , oxidized Low-density lipoprotein ( ox-LDL ) , high-sensitivity cardiac troponin I ( hs-cTnI ) , and hs-CRP are assessed . Indeed , biochemical parameters and EF% were measured . RESULTS : Higher EF% ( >5% ) , TAC ( >05 mmol Fe ( + ) ; /L ) , GPx ( >48 mU/mL ) , CAT ( >32 nmol/min/mL ) , and SOD ( >16 U/mL ) were linked to a lower risk of CAB > 50% . In contrast , higher MDA ( >07 nmol/mL ) , MPO ( >77 U/L ) , hs-CRP ( >5 mg/L ) , and ox-LDL ( >87 mug/L ) were associated with a higher risk . There was no significant difference in PCSK9 and LDL-C levels between groups . EF% was positively linked to SOD but negatively related to MDA , MPO , ox-LDL , hs-cTnI , and hs-CRP . Ox-LDL correlated positively with MPO but negatively with TAC , CAT , and GPx . PCSK9 showed a positive relationship with MDA . The best markers for CAB > 50% diagnosis were ox-LDL ( AUC = 22 , cut-off > 35 mug/L ) , EF% ( AUC = 35 , cut-off < 25% ) , and hs-cTnI ( AUC = 3 , cut-off > 265 ng/mL ) . CONCLUSION : While PCSK9 ' s role in MI through LDL-C is well known , its impact on inflammation and oxidative stress may also be important , even when LDL-C and PCSK9 levels are normal . Additionally , ox-LDL and EF% are better indicators of CAB > 50% than hs-cTnI .
BACKGROUND : Cigarettes and electronic cigarettes generate many redox-active materials which could impact children ' s health through second-hand exposures . High-resolution metabolomics methods enable use of non-targeted mass spectrometry of plasma to test for redox consequences of second-hand exposures . OBJECTIVES : Our objectives were to test for oxidative stress metabolites and altered metabolic pathways associated with second-hand exposure to redox-active flavorants and flavorant metabolites in plasma of infants and children . METHODS : Untargeted plasma metabolomics data for infants and children in a population known to include individuals with second-hand exposures to cigarettes and electronic cigarettes were analyzed for cotinine and metabolites of flavorants . A metabolome-wide association study ( MWAS ) was performed separately for cotinine and menthol glucuronide , derived from the redox-active flavorant , menthol . Pathway enrichment analysis was used to identify metabolic pathways , and xMWAS was used to detect metabolic communities associated with flavorant metabolites . RESULTS : Menthol glucuronide was one of several flavorant metabolites positively correlated with cotinine . MWAS and pathway enrichment analysis revealed that some pathways associated with both menthol glucuronide and cotinine , while others only associated with menthol glucuronide , including sphingolipid , glycerophospholipid , antioxidant , N-glycan and mitochondrial energy metabolism . 4-hydroxynonenal and other oxidized lipids positively correlated with menthol glucuronide . DISCUSSION : The results show that flavorants from second-hand electronic cigarette and cigarette exposures in infants and children are associated with changes in redox metabolism which are known to associate with human lung diseases . FAU - Smith , Matthew Ryan
BACKGROUND : Pancreatic stellate cells ( PSCs ) are critical in the development of pancreatic fibrosis . In vitro , cell attachment itself can promote cell activation . Currently , there is a lack of methods for isolating activated PSCs that are unaffected by cell attachment . This study aims to identify effective methods for isolating quiescent and activated murine PSCs ( mPSCs ) and to evaluate the potential of caerulein in inducing mPSC activation in an ex vivo model . METHODS : Pancreatic tissue from mice was digested with collagenase P ( 17 U/mL ) , Pronase ( 5 mg/mL ) , and DNase I ( 01 mg/mL ) . Quiescent and activated mPSCs were isolated using a Nycodenz gradient . Immunostaining for alpha-smooth muscle actin ( alpha-SMA ) , Desmin , glial fibrillary acidic protein ( GFAP ) , vimentin , CK19 , and CD68 was performed to confirm cell purity . Real-time quantitative PCR ( RT-PCR ) and RNA sequencing assessed the activation phenotype following caerulein treatment . RESULTS : Quiescent and activated mPSCs were successfully isolated using the Nycodenz gradient , with cells exhibiting typical stellate morphology and positive staining for alpha-SMA , Desmin and vimentin . Oil Red O staining confirmed lipid droplets in quiescent mPSCs . In the caerulein-treated group , mPSC activation was significantly greater than in the saline-treated control group . RT-PCR revealed progressive upregulation of acta2 ( **p<01 , d4 compared to d2 , ( ## ) p<01 , d7 compared to d4 , **p<01 , d7 compared to d2 ) , col1a ( **p<01 , d4 compared to d2 , **p<01 , d7 compared to d2 ) , and actg2 ( **p<01 , d4 compared to d2 , ( ## ) p<01 , d7 compared to d4 , **p<01 , d7 compared to d2 ) mRNA levels at 2 , 4 , and 7 days post-adhesion . Fibroblast markers were also upregulated , and KEGG and GO enrichment analyses identified key pathways involved in ECM-receptor interactions , cell cycle regulation , PI3K-Akt signaling , and extracellular matrix remodeling . CONCLUSION : The Nycodenz gradient efficiently isolates quiescent mPSCs , and short-term caerulein treatment effectively activates mPSCs ex vivo , providing a valuable model for studying mPSC activation and related signaling pathways .
Background Heart failure ( HF ) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide , with limited therapeutic options targeting both cardiac function and metabolic comorbidities . Tirzepatide , a dual glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide ( GIP ) and glucagon-like peptide-1 ( GLP-1 ) receptor agonist , has shown potential in improving cardiovascular outcomes . Proposed mechanisms include weight reduction , improved insulin sensitivity , and natriuretic effects , all of which may benefit patients with HF . Preliminary evidence from cardiovascular outcome trials suggests tirzepatide may reduce major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACE ) , although specific data in HF populations remain limited . Objective This study aimed to evaluate the effects of tirzepatide on echocardiographic , biochemical , functional , and metabolic parameters in patients diagnosed with heart failure . Methodology A prospective observational study was conducted at Dr . Ziauddin University Hospital , Karachi , Pakistan , over one year . A total of 100 adult patients with heart failure , either with reduced ( HFrEF ) or preserved ejection fraction ( HFpEF ) , who were prescribed tirzepatide , were enrolled . Clinical , biochemical , and functional assessments were performed at baseline and six months . Key parameters included left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) , N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide ( NT-proBNP ) levels , lipid profile , hemoglobin A1C ( HbA1c ) , fasting plasma glucose , six-minute walk test ( 6MWT ) distance , and Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire ( KCCQ ) scores . Statistical analysis was conducted using IBM Corp . Released IBM SPSS Statistics for Windows , Version Armonk , NY : IBM Corp . , with paired t-tests . Results At six months , significant improvements were observed in LVEF ( 2% +/- 1% to 5% +/- 8% , p < 001 ) and NT-proBNP levels ( 2200 +/- 750 pg/mL to 1400 +/- 620 pg/mL , p < 001 ) . Lipid parameters , including low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol ( 135 +/- 25 mg/dL to 110 +/- 20 mg/dL , p < 001 ) , showed favorable changes . HbA1c decreased from 2% +/- 1% to 9% +/- 9% ( p < 001 ) . Functional outcomes improved significantly , with an increase in 6MWT distance ( 290 +/- 60 m to 360 +/- 65 m , p < 001 ) and KCCQ scores ( 5 +/- 2 to 4 +/- 8 , p < 001 ) . Conclusion Tirzepatide therapy was associated with significant improvements in cardiac function , metabolic control , and functional capacity in patients with heart failure . These findings highlight its potential role as an adjunctive therapy in HF management . However , to establish its long-term safety and efficacy , studies with larger cohorts and extended follow-up periods are essential , in addition to randomized controlled trials for validation .
Sperm cells require time to adjust to lower temperatures . While some studies have established stabilization periods ranging from two to four hours for ovine semen , the exploration of longer periods of stabilization remains limited . The objective of the study is to evaluate the 12-hour refrigeration curve during ovine semen cryopreservation and the impact of a diluent medium containing egg yolk and liposomes . Eight mixed-breed rams ( ( 1/2 ) Dorper and ( 1/2 ) Santa Ines ) provided two ejaculates each , divided into two groups . Group A used a commercial egg yolk-based diluent ( Botu-Bov ( R ) - Botupharma Ltda , Brazil ) , while Group B used a commercial liposome-based diluent ( OptiXcell ( R ) , IMV Technologies , France ) . Semen was packaged in French straws , cooled , cryopreserved , and thawed for analysis . Group A exhibited superior values ( P < 05 ) in progressive motility ( MP ) , progressive linear velocity ( VSL ) , straightness ( STR ) , and linearity ( LIN ) post-thawing and after 3 hours at 37 degrees C ( TTR ) . Conversely , Group B showed higher ( P < 05 ) values for path velocity ( VAP ) , curvilinear velocity ( VCL ) , lateral head displacement amplitude ( ALH ) post-thawing , and VAP , VSL , VCL , and ALH after TTR . Flow cytometry revealed Group A ' s higher ( P > 05 ) plasma and acrosomal membrane integrity and membrane stability . However , Group B exhibited greater ( P > 05 ) superoxide anion generation and lipid peroxidation , indicative of higher oxidative stress . In conclusion , the egg yolk-based diluent outperformed the diluent containing liposomes in sperm kinetic parameters evaluated by CASA , although liposomes showed increased oxidative stress , 12 hours of refrigeration at 0 degrees C is an alternative viable for semen cryopreservation in sheep .
INTRODUCTION : Cassiae Semen Extract ( CSE ) shows promise in treating hyperlipidemia , although its underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood . This study aimed to investigate the effects of CSE on hyperlipidemia in rats and explore the potential mechanisms involved . METHODS : Hyperlipidemic rats were induced by a high-fat diet ( HFD ) and treated with CSE . Serum , liver , and fecal samples were analyzed through biochemical assays , histopathological examination , 16S rRNA sequencing , KEGG pathway analysis , and Western blot . RESULTS : CSE treatment effectively alleviated biochemical imbalances and tissue damage induced by the HFD . 16S rRNA sequencing revealed that CSE improved gut microbiota dysbiosis and increased microbiota abundance . Pathological analysis showed that CSE reduced hepatic lipid accumulation , mitigating liver damage . KEGG pathway analysis suggested that the beneficial effects of CSE on hyperlipidemia may involve Fc gamma receptor ( FcgammaR ) -mediated phagocytosis , with immune activation influencing lipid homeostasis and liver inflammation . Western blot analysis further indicated that CSE may regulate lipid metabolism via Sterol Regulatory Element-Binding Protein-1c ( SREBP-1c ) and Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Alpha ( PPARalpha ) , while reducing hepatic inflammation through the MAPK signaling pathway . DISCUSSION : CSE may ameliorate hyperlipidemia in rats by modulating gut microbiota disorders , lipid metabolism , and FcgammaR-mediated immune regulation , providing a potential therapeutic approach for diseases associated with metabolic dysfunction and inflammation . However , further in-depth studies are required to fully elucidate these mechanisms .
INTRODUCTION : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) , characterized by hepatic steatosis , inflammation and fibrosis , is becoming a global epidemic . However , the currently available effective clinical strategies remain limited . METHODS : We conducted the choline-deficient , L-amino acid-defined , high-fat diet ( CDAHFD ) induced MASH mouse model to explore the effects of diphyllin on MASLD mice . We employ the targeted protein degradation technology applied for the discovery of compound/protein-protein interaction to identify p65 as a potential target protein . RESULTS : We determine that diphyllin , a natural arylnaphthalene lignan lactone , is effective on MASLD , evidenced by the inhibition of hepatic lipid accumulation through promoting fatty acid oxidation in vivo and in vitro . To uncover the underlying mechanisms , we design and synthesis diphyllin-based protac and identify p65 as a potential target protein . Under p65 deficiency , the effects of diphyllin on lipid metabolism are blocked in vitro . As p65 as an antagonist of NRF2 , diphyllin interacts with p65 , leading to the induction of the NRF2 transcriptional activity and the enhancement of antioxidant capacity . When NFR2 is inhibited , the lowering effects of diphyllin on lipid is abolished . DISCUSSION : Our study presents diphyllin as a potential lead compound for MASLD therapy but also offers a novel approach for elucidating the mechanisms of action of natural products .
Calcific aortic valve disease ( CAVD ) is a progressive disease , of which the 2-year mortality is >50% for symptomatic disease . However , there are currently no pharmacotherapies to prevent the progression of CAVD unless transcatheter or surgical aortic valve replacement is performed . The prevalence of diabetes among CAVD has increased rapidly in recent decades , especially among those undergoing aortic valve replacement . Diabetes and its comorbidities , such as hypertension , hyperlipidemia , chronic kidney disease and ageing , participated jointly in the initiation and progression of CAVD , which increased the management complexity in patients with CAVD . Except from hyperglycemia , the molecular links between diabetes and CAVD included inflammation , oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction . Traditional cardiovascular drugs like lipid-lowering agents and renin-angiotensin system blocking drugs have proven to be unsuccessful in retarding the progression of CAVD in clinical trials . In recent years , almost all kinds of glucose-lowering medications have been specifically assessed for decelerating the development of CAVD . Based on the efficacy for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and CAVD , this review summarized current knowledge about glucose-lowering medications as promising treatment options with the potential to retard CAVD .
INTRODUCTION : The escalating prevalence of diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) has intensified the search for effective therapeutic interventions . The current study investigates the potential of ondansetron , a Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) -approved drug for conditions like nausea and vomiting , as a novel treatment option for these metabolic disorders . METHODS : A multifaceted approach , encompassing computational analyses , in vitro enzyme inhibition assays , and in vivo experiments in a high-fat diet ( HFD ) -induced disease model in rats were employed . RESULTS : Computational studies , including pharmacophore modeling , molecular docking , and molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations , revealed the strong binding affinity of ondansetron to the allosteric site of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B ( PTP1B ) , a key regulator of insulin and lipid homeostasis . The in vitro enzyme inhibition assay further confirmed ondansetron ' s ability to directly inhibit PTP1B activity . Animal experiments demonstrated ondansetron ' s antihyperglycemic effects , reducing blood glucose levels and improving insulin sensitivity in HFD-fed rats . The drug also exhibited hepatoprotective properties , mitigating liver damage and improving tissue architecture . Additionally , ondansetron ' s anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities were evident in its ability to reduce pro-inflammatory markers and oxidative stress in the liver . DISCUSSION : These therapeutic effects position ondansetron as a promising candidate for further investigation in clinical settings for the treatment of diabetes and NAFLD and , hence , support the use of the drug repurposing approach for addressing the growing burden of metabolic diseases .
BACKGROUND : Musk is a blackish-brown solid used in traditional Chinese medicine with a unique and intense scent . Limited evidence on its function and pathways is available from databases due to the complexity , variability , and derivativity of chemical composition . RESULTS : In this study , musk samples from three different stages during maturation : the end of June ( group A ) , August ( group B ) , and October ( group C ) were harvested from six male forest musk deer . A gas chromatography and mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) approach was used to explore the chemical composition . Results indicated the presence of 66 known and 14 unknown chemicals , including 29 aromatic compounds . Lipids ( 52% ) , organic oxygen compounds ( 79% ) , and organoheterocyclic compounds ( 12% ) were the most abundant substances . A total of 13 differential metabolites were found , including four macrocyclic ketones and six androgens and derivatives that increased as musk matured . Biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids was enriched in differential metabolites across stages . Tetracosanoic acid , methyl ester , and TES1 [EC : 2] participated in the biosynthesis of muscone . A total of nine chemicals and six steroidogenic enzymes participated in steroid hormone biosynthesis . CONCLUSION : This study annotates and defines metabolites in musk systematically , macrocyclic ketones ( 09% ) and lipids ( 52% ) were categorized unambiguously , suggesting that previous studies have underestimated the lipid content in musk , and critical role for lipid metabolism in musk gland development and odor profile formation . The high lipid content may reflect energy storage for glandular activity or serve as precursors for volatile compound synthesis , offering new mechanistic insights into musk maturation . Therefore , we preliminarily decipher the biosynthetic pathways of muscone and steroids through providing involved enzymes and metabolites . These results will deepen the understanding of the composition of natural musk and offer new theoretical insights to promote the comprehensive use of this resource .
Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS , endotoxin ) -mediated signaling of caspase-4 ( human ) and -11 ( rodent ) can induce the maturation of inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta and cell pyroptosis , which is associated with the pathophysiology of many diseases such as obesity . However , the process by which LPS induces inflammation through caspase 4/11 is not fully understood . We found here that lncRNA29RIK plays a key role in LPS-mediated maturation of inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta and pyroptosis of macrophages . Mechanistic ally , the binding of caspase 4/11 to LPS requires lncRNARIK to cause activation of the caspase 4/11 complex , which ultimately caused inflammation to promote sensitivity to high fat diet ( HFD ) -mediated obesity . Notably , lncRNA29RIK expression can be up-regulated by LPS . This lncRNA29 is highly conserved between humans and mice . Taken together , these results suggest that lncRNA29RIK determines the occurrence and progression of LPS-related diseases such as obesity .
INTRODUCTION : Autoimmune thyroiditis ( AIT ) is a common and chronic autoimmune disease . Recent evidence indicates that serum metabolites and dysbiosis of the intestinal microbiota are associated with AIT , with the underlying mechanism involving the apoptosis of thyroid follicular epithelial cells . Acupuncture , a traditional Chinese therapy , has demonstrated potential regulatory effects on various immune-related diseases . Clinical symptoms in AIT patients have shown improvement following acupuncture intervention . However , the mechanism underlying its therapeutic effects remain poorly understood . METHODS : In this study , we investigated the mechanisms of acupuncture ( Acu ) treatment in rats with established experimental autoimmune thyroiditis ( EAT ) and evaluated the relationship between microbiota and serum metabolites after Acu treatment . After six weeks of acupuncture and Selenium yeast intervention ( used as a positive control ) , enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was used to employed to assess the expressions of serum thyroid function and inflammatory markers . Pathological changes in the thyroid gland were observed using hematoxylin-eosin staining and electron microscopy . Thyroid apoptosis was evaluated through TUNEL staining , immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis . Additionally , changes in intestinal microbiota and serum metabolic profile were analyzed by 16S ribosomal RNA ( 16S rRNA ) sequencing and LC-MS metabolomics , aiming to identify potential therapeutic targets for acupuncture intervention in AIT . RESULTS : The results revealed that Acu could effectively improve thyroid dysfunction and histopathological changes in EAT rats . Following Acu treatment , the content of B-cell lymphoma-2 ( Bcl-2 ) increased , while the levels of Bax and the proportion of cleaved caspase-3 in thyroid tissue decreased . This may be associated with the amelioration of intestinal microbiota dysbiosis and metabolic disorders in EAT rats . Acu mitigated EAT-induced metabolic disorders by regulating the metabolism of palmitoleic acid , and adjusted intestinal microbiota dysbiosis by increasing the abundance of Prevotella . Furthermore , the microbiota ( Prevotella ) and metabolites ( Cyclohexanecarboxylic acid , Tetradecanedioic acid ) may serve as co-targets for both Acu and Selenium yeast treatment in EAT . DISCUSSION : Acu improves the apoptosis of thyroid follicular epithelial cells in rats in EAT model , and its mechanism may be related to intestinal microbiota and metabolism .
BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES : Psoriasis is a chronic , immune-mediated skin disease frequently linked to metabolic dysregulation . Odd-chain fatty acids ( OCFAs ) , a group of bioactive lipids , have been implicated in inflammation and metabolic health ; however , their role in psoriasis remains poorly defined . This study aimed to investigate the associations between plasma OCFA levels , white blood cell ( WBC ) traits , and psoriasis severity . METHODS : A total of 235 patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis were enrolled from the Shanghai Psoriasis Effectiveness Evaluation CoHort . Baseline plasma OCFA concentrations were measured using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry , and routine hematologic parameters were extracted from clinical records . Psoriasis severity was assessed using the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index , Body Surface Area , Dermatology Life Quality Index , and the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale for Anxiety and Depression . Therapeutic response was evaluated at weeks 12 and 28 based on clinical improvement . Multivariate linear and logistic regression analyses , stratified subgroup analyses , and restricted cubic spline models were employed . RESULTS : Higher plasma levels of C15 : 0 were significantly associated with increased total WBC and neutrophil counts . C17 : 0 levels were positively associated with WBC counts among females and older adults , and inversely associated with eosinophil counts in females and individuals with normal BMI . Additionally , C17 : 1n7 levels were positively associated with lymphocyte and monocyte counts . Total OCFA levels were also positively associated with overall WBC and neutrophil counts . These associations varied by sex , age , BMI , smoking and alcohol consumption history , and the presence of comorbidities such as psoriatic arthritis , hypertension , and type 2 diabetes . While no significant associations were observed between plasma OCFA levels and psoriasis severity or treatment response in the overall cohort , stratified analyses revealed potential relationships in specific subgroups . CONCLUSIONS : Plasma OCFAs are differentially associated with circulating immune cell profiles in patients with psoriasis , suggesting a potential immunomodulatory role . Although OCFAs were not linked to overall disease severity or short-term treatment outcomes , subgroup-specific associations indicate their relevance in particular clinical phenotypes . These findings highlight the need for further longitudinal studies to clarify the role of OCFAs in immune regulation , disease progression , and comorbidity management in psoriasis .
In recent years , the incidence and mortality of pancreatic cancer ( PC ) are increasing year by year . The highly heterogeneous nature of PC , its strong immune escape ability and easy metastasis make it the most lethal malignant tumor in the world . With the rapid development of sequencing technology , the complex components in the tumor microenvironment ( TME ) of PC have been gradually revealed . Interactions between pancreatic stellate cells , tumor-associated fibroblasts , various types of immune cells , and cancer cells collectively promote metabolic reprogramming of all types of cells . This metabolic reprogramming further enhances the immune escape mechanism of tumor cells and ultimately induces tumor cells to become severely resistant to chemotherapy and immunotherapy . On the one hand , PC cells achieve re and rational utilization of glucose , amino acids and lipids through metabolic reprogramming , which in turn accomplishes biosynthesis and energy metabolism requirements . Under such conditions , tumorigenesis , proliferation and metastasis are ultimately promoted . On the other hand , various types of immune cells in the tumor immune microenvironment ( TIME ) also undergo metabolic reprogramming , which leads to tumor progression and suppression of anti-immune responses by inhibiting the function of normal anti-tumor immune cells and enhancing the function of immunosuppressive cells . The aim of this review is to explore the interaction between the immune microenvironment and metabolic reprogramming in PC . The focus is to summarize the specific mechanisms of action of metabolic reprogramming of PC cells and metabolic reprogramming of immune cells . In addition , this review will summarize the mechanisms of immunotherapy resistance in PC cells . In the future , targeting specific mechanisms of metabolic reprogramming will provide a solid theoretical basis for the development of combination therapies for PC .
INTRODUCTION : Larimichthys polyactis is a promising marine fishery species , but visceral white-nodules disease ( VWND ) caused by Pseudomonas plecoglossicida causes significant losses . However , genetic resistance mechanisms to VWND remain elusive in this species . METHODS : This study combined genome-wide association study ( GWAS ) and transcriptome analysis to unravel resistance loci and transcriptional regulation in L . polyactis . RESULTS : As a result , GWAS on 946 infected fish genotyped by 100 K lipid chips identified 22 suggestive significantly associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) , annotated 60 candidate genes , where DNA-sensing pathway were enriched . RNA-seq on liver tissues of resistant , sensitive , and control groups found immune-related pathways enriched in the comparisons of RL vs CL and RL vs SL , and autophagy-related pathways enriched in the comparisons of SL vs CL and RL vs SL . Then , the integration of GWAS and transcriptome analysis identified seven key genes associated with resistance to VWND . Among the genes , the expression levels of mRNA for genes related to the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase-stimulator of interferon genes ( STING ) signaling pathway , as well as the protein levels of STING1 , were significantly upregulated in RL . Collectively , integrating KEGG pathway analysis , gene and protein expression analysis revealed that the importance of STING1 for VWND resistance . DISCUSSION : These findings deepen the available knowledge on molecular mechanisms of host genetic resistance to VWND and provide an important foundation for the selection and breeding of VWND-resistant L . polyactis .
Diabetes mellitus ( DM ) is a highly prevalent public health problem characterized by hyperglycemia that causes complications due to the generation of reactive oxygen species and oxidative damage . Studies have shown that essential oils containing citral , such as lemongrass , have various biological activities , including bactericidal , antiviral , antifungal , antioxidant , and hypoglycemic effects . Therefore , this study aims to obtain a microemulsified formulation containing the essential oil of Cymbopogon flexuosus ( EOCF ) and to evaluate its antioxidant and antidiabetic activity in diabetic rats . The microemulsion ( ME ) was obtained after consulting the corresponding pseudoternary phase diagram and showed stability , isotropy , Newtonian behavior , nanometric size ( 2 nm ) , and pH Both EOCF and the ME showed high antioxidant activity , but the ME resulted in greater antioxidant activity , potentiating the activity of isolated EOCF . Finally , male Wistar rats ( 3 months old , 200-250 g ) with streptozotocin-induced type-1 DM were supplemented with EOCF and ME ( 32 mg/kg ) for 21 days . Both EOCF and ME supplementation resulted in reduced blood glucose levels and improved lipid profiles when compared to the control group . Additionally , the ME was able to provide additional benefits , such as reduced liver damage , improved renal function , reduced systemic inflammation , and increased high-density lipoprotein levels . Overall , the results show that EOCF was efficiently incorporated into the microemulsion , improving its antioxidant activity and showing promising results for use in the treatment of DM via the oral route .
Bridge-like lipid transporters ( BLTPs ) have recently been revealed as key regulators of intraorganellar lipid trafficking , with their loss being associated with defective synaptic signalling and congenital neurological diseases . This group consists of five protein subfamilies [BLTP1-3 , autophagy-related 2 ( ATG2 ) , and vacuolar protein sorting 13 ( VPS13 ) ] , which mediate minimally selective lipid transfer between cellular membranes . Deceptively simple in both structure and presumed function , this review addresses open questions as to how bridge-like transporters work , the functional consequences of bulk lipid transfer on cellular signalling , and summarises some recent studies that have shed light on the surprising level of regulation and specificity found in this family of transporters .
Methylnissolin ( also known as Astrapterocarpan ) is an isoflavonoid compound featuring a pterocarpan core structure . To date , leguminous plants of the genus Astragalus remain the exclusive natural source of Methylnissolin and its glycoside derivative , Methylnissolin-3-O-glucoside . Upon oral administration , Methylnissolin and its glycosides enter systemic circulation and modulate signaling pathways such as RIPK2/ASK1 , PI3K/AKT , IkappaB/NF-kappaB , MAPK , and Nrf2/HO- Their pharmacological activities span anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , glucose-lipid metabolism regulation , and antitumor effects , underscoring their broad potential for drug development . This review comprehensively evaluates the physicochemical properties , pharmacological activities , mechanisms of action , pharmacokinetic characteristics , and toxicological profile of Methylnissolin and its glycoside derivatives . Notably , we systematically elucidate the metabolic fate of methylnissolin , identifying hydroxylation , demethylation , dimerization , hydration , and dehydrogenation as predominant biotransformation pathways . Furthermore , the influence of factors such as plant variety , geographical origin , and processing methods on Methylnissolin and its glycoside content in Astragalus membranaceus is analyzed , providing crucial insights for drug development and resource utilization .
This study explored the impact of Bacteroides uniformis ( B . uniformis ) on fatty liver hemorrhagic syndrome ( FLHS ) induced by a high-energy and low-protein ( HELP ) diet in laying hens , mainly focusing on hepatic lipid metabolism , gut microbiota , and arachidonic acid ( AA ) metabolism . A total of 120 Dawu Golden Phoenix laying hens ( 210-day-old ) were randomly divided into four groups . The control group ( CON ) was fed a standard diet and received a daily gavage of PBS , while the other groups were fed with a HELP diet to induce FLHS and received a daily gavage of PBS ( MOD ) , 1 x 10 CFU/ml B . uniformis ( BUL ) , and 1 x 10 CFU/ml B . uniformis ( BUH ) for 70 days . All hens were administered 1 ml daily by gavage . Each group had 6 replications with 5 hens per replication . The results showed that B . uniformis increased the egg production rate and feed conversion ratio and decreased body weight , liver index , and abdominal fat rate ( p < 05 ) . B . uniformis treatment reduced liver lipid accumulation by reducing the levels of Triglyceride ( TG ) , Total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , alanine transaminases ( ALT ) , and aspartate transaminases ( AST ) in serum and significantly elevated high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) ( p < 05 ) . The results indicated that B . uniformis altered the gut microbiota . Specifically , the abundance of Bacteroides was higher , and the relative abundances of Treponema , Helicobacter , and Spirochaetota were lower than those of the MOD group ( p < 05 ) . Moreover , targeted metabolomic analysis showed that supplementation of B . uniformis significantly elevated 6-keto-PGF ( 1alpha ) and AA levels , along with significantly reduced levels of thromboxane B ( TXB ) , leukotriene D ( LTD ) , 8-isoprostaglandin F ( 2alpha ) ( 8-iso-PGF ( 2alpha ) ) , 12S-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 12S-HETE ) , 15S-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid ( 15S-HETE ) , 9-S-hydroxy-octadecadienoic acid ( 9S-HODE ) , and 13-S-hydroxy-octadecadienoic acid ( 13S-HODE ) ( p < 05 ) . In conclusion , the oral intake of B . uniformis can improve liver function , gut microbiota , and AA metabolism , thereby helping to ameliorate FLHS in Dawu Golden Phoenix laying hens .
Foot-and-mouth disease virus ( FMDV ) is one of the most significant animal pathogens worldwide , severely impacting the health and productivity of pigs , cattle , sheep , and other ungulates . Although the traditional vaccines have played a crucial role in epidemic control , inactivated vaccines face persistent challenges concerning the potential for virus dissemination and pressures from serotype and subtype matching . However , the manufacture of attenuated vaccines is forbidden , and the efficiency of alternative vaccines for immune protection is still inadequate . Consequently , there exists an urgent need for safer and more effective innovative vaccines in animal husbandry . In this study , we aimed to develop a lipid nanoparticle mRNA vaccine based on VP1-3A-3D epitopes from serotype O FMD and to verify its specific expression within cytoplasmic and injection sites . Our findings demonstrated that mRNA transfected into primary spleen cells derived from guinea pigs induced cytokine release , promoted differentiation of both CD4 ( + ) T and CD8 ( + ) T lymphocytes , and enhanced lymphocyte proliferation rates . Following immunization of mRNA vaccine in guinea pigs , we observed increased differentiation of both CD4 ( + ) T and CD8 ( + ) T cells , alongside elevated levels of cytokine secretion . Additionally , this vaccination induced the production of specific IgG antibodies as well as neutralizing antibodies . Importantly , our vaccine provided complete protection for all six guinea pigs against a lethal challenge of 100 GPID , with histopathological scores indicating protection equivalent to that conferred by the inactivated vaccine . The viral load results demonstrated that the vaccine group significantly reduced viral copy numbers in serum and effectively decreased the concentration of the inflammatory cytokine IL-1beta . Furthermore , during the pre-immune phase following vaccination with the mRNA vaccine in pigs , heightened cytokine secretion was observed , along with the inhibition of viral replication . Simultaneously , the neutralizing antibody titer in the serum remained stable over 4 months . Immunofluorescence analysis of spleen tissues from both guinea pigs and pigs demonstrated marked activation and increased expression of CD4 ( + ) and CD8 ( + ) T lymphocytes , as well as macrophages , in the mRNA vaccine group . In summary , this study suggests that the serotype O FMD mRNA vaccine is a promising candidate for further development in the fight against FMDV .
Objective : Recent studies on type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) have identified several novel biomarkers that demonstrate greater stability compared to traditional blood glucose indicators . This trial aimed to investigate the effect of fish oil intervention on these T2D early risk novel biomarkers . Methods : We conducted a 12-week double-blind randomized controlled trial , the healthy middle-aged and elderly participants over 40 years old were randomly divided into the control group , fish oil group 1 ( FO1 ) , fish oil group 2 ( FO2 ) , and fish oil group 3 ( FO3 ) , with each FO group receiving 31 , 62 , and 24 g of eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) , respectively . The control group abstained from consuming any fish oil supplements . At week 12 , serum samples were collected and compared with the control group to explore the effects of different doses on serum n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) and T2D early risk novel biomarkers . Results : A total of 240 participants were recruited into this double-blind randomized controlled trial , and 201 finally completed the intervention trial , including 57 males and 144 females . The results indicate that after controlling for relevant confounders , a 12-week fish oil intervention dose-dependently increased serum EPA and DHA , while decreasing fasting insulin ( FINS ) , HOMA-IR index ( P < 01 ) . Concurrently , fasting blood glucose ( FBG ) exhibited a downward trend across all groups , with significant differences compared with the baseline ( P < 01 ) ; mannan-binding lectin serine protease 1 ( MASP1 ) , UA to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) ratio ( UHR ) and lipid-related indices in various groups also demonstrated a decreasing trend , with significant differences compared with the baseline ( P < 05 ) . Conclusion : Moderate supplementation with fish oil may diminish the early risk of T2D in healthy middle-aged and elderly adults by enhancing insulin sensitivity , and maintaining insulin homeostasis . FAU - Nian , Zhaoyang
Atherosclerotic plaques represent a typical deterioration of arterial wall in atherosclerotic process and are the source of cardiovascular events . Plaque progression and composition represent a major risk for cardiovascular events . Therefore , recently many studies have assessed changes in plaque characteristics and their response to various treatment modalities . In the last two decades , improvement in plaque imaging modalities that can assess plaque volumes and composition enable to follow plaque characteristics in a non-invasive way . Clinical trials utilizing arterial imaging modalities have shown that reducing LDL cholesterol to low levels can reduce atherosclerotic plaque burden and favourably modify plaque composition . These outcomes have been achieved with statin therapy and newer lipid-lowering strategies such as protein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 inhibitors . Also , some anti-inflammatory drugs and other anti-atherosclerotic medications can lead to significant reduction in plaque burden . However , the data assessing association of plaque regression to reduction of cardiovascular events are limited . Therefore , the aim of this narrative review is to elucidate the possibilities and the role of plaque assessment and if it might offer the potential to guide personalized management of patients at risk for cardiovascular events in the future . FAU - Poredos , Pavel
Cancer vaccines offer a promising strategy for immunotherapy by stimulating the immune system to target and destroy cancer cells . Antigens and adjuvants have been recognized as important components for the preparation of cancer vaccines , with antigens as the keys for immune cells to recognize cancer cells and adjuvants stimulating potent immune effects . Nanovehicles offer great potential advantages for construction of cancer vaccines , including enhanced antigen loading , co-assembly of antigens and adjuvants , targeted delivery , and antigen and adjuvant effects . By leveraging diverse nanovehicles , along with tumor antigens and/or adjuvants , various cancer nanovaccines have been developed , resulting in enhanced immune responses and facilitating the creation of personalized vaccines . This review presents the progress of cancer nanovaccines in clinical trials , systematically summarizing the physicochemical properties and roles of nanovehicles in the delivery of antigens and adjuvants as cancer nanovaccines , including inorganic nanoparticles , polymeric nanovehicles , nanoengineered coordination polymers , lipid nanovehicles , biomimetic nanovehicles , virus-like particles , and self-assembled peptide vehicles . We further discuss challenges in clinical translation and provide insights into future advancements in cancer nanovaccines . FAU - Chen , Xin
BACKGROUND : To investigate the effect of probucol and atorvastatin on self-care ability in patients with acute cerebral infarction ( ACI ) . METHODS : Eighty-one patients with ACI admitted from November 2020 to May 2021 were divided into a combination treatment group ( n = 40 ) and an atorvastatin group ( n = 41 ) . The atorvastatin group was given atorvastatin on the basis of conventional treatment , and the combination treatment group was treated with probucol and atorvastatin on the control basis . Self-care ability and blood lipid levels were assessed at baseline and 6 months after treatment using the Barthel Index ( BI ) and biochemical tests . The study also included MRI scans to evaluate infarct volume and monitored relevant clinical indicators . RESULTS : The baseline data of both groups were consistent and comparable . After six months , both groups showed improved self-care ability , with the combined treatment group exhibiting a more significant improvement ( P < 05 ) . The combination treatment group also demonstrated a significant reduction in total cholesterol ( TCH ) and low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) levels compared to the atorvastatin group ( P < 05 ) . The factors influencing self-care ability included history of cerebrovascular disease , treatment modality , and LDL levels . CONCLUSION : Probucol combined with atorvastatin significantly enhances self-care ability and improves blood lipid levels in patients with ACI . This combination therapy is safe , feasible , and recommended for clinical application to reduce cognitive decline and improve quality of life in these patients .
The authors carried out a comprehensive review of the application of peptides known as cell-penetrating peptides ( CPPs ) in various drug delivery systems ( DDS ) , with the prospect of achieving novel solutions and ideas to overcome the challenges of DDS , by making them more able to penetrate cells and biological membranes . A conceptual search was conducted in relevant literature databases ( Scopus , PubMed , Web of Science , and Google Scholar ) up to 1 April 2025 using keywords such as drug delivery systems , cell-penetrating peptides , CPPs , complexes , conjugates , nanoparticles , dendrimers , exosomes , liquid crystalline , liposomes , micelles , nanospheres and lipid nanoparticles . The studies demonstrate that the antimicrobial effect of drugs , including curcumin , gentamicin , and antifungal drugs like imidazoacridinone derivatives , can be enhanced when they are conjugated or complexed with CPPs . CPPs possess positive charges , which make them suitable for gene therapy applications by facilitating the delivery of plasmids and siRNAs with negative charges in modern delivery systems . Medicinal formulations containing CPPs in combination with liquid crystals or nanostructured lipid carriers ( NLCs ) increase drugs penetration to the skin . Additionally , several investigations showed that CPPs could have a positive impact on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic of chemotherapy agents , reducing their side effects . CPPs have significant potential in enhancing penetration , bioavailability , targeting , and optimization of DDS . By using computer modeling and designing CPPs with more desirable features and conducting more clinical studies , new methods for treating diseases and better formulations can be achieved . FAU - Khakshur , Ali Asghar
AIM : To explore the influence of the serum total bilirubin to total cholesterol ( TBIL/TC ) ratio on the progression of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) in people with type 2 diabetes . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The present retrospective discovery cohort investigated 4282 patients . The exposure was baseline TBIL/TC ratio . The outcome was the first time to progressing CKD , defined by a drop in the estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) category , along with a reduction in eGFR of at least 25% compared to the baseline value . Hazard ratios ( HRs ) for CKD progression were evaluated based on the Cox proportional hazards approach . Dose-response relationships were conducted using Restricted Cubic Splines ( RCS ) . Additionally , 758 patients were enrolled as an independent validation cohort . RESULTS : During a median observation period of 4 years ( interquartile range 3-8 years ) within the discovery cohort , 522 individuals showed progression in CKD . The analysis revealed a negative association between the TBIL/TC ratio and the risk of CKD progression , with an adjusted HR of 17 and a 95% CI ranging from 07 to After adjusting for confounding variables , the HRs for the second , third , and fourth quartiles of the TBIL/TC ratio were recorded at 61 ( 95% CI 48 , 78 ) , 55 ( 95% CI 42 , 72 ) , and 55 ( 95% CI 41 , 74 ) , respectively . Analysis with RCS indicated an optimal TBIL/TC ratio threshold of 25% . Similar results were also observed in the validation cohort . CONCLUSIONS : A higher TBIL/TC ratio was significantly associated with a reduced risk of CKD progression in patients with type 2 diabetes .
Organelles are essential for regulating cellular physiological processes and maintaining homeostasis . Disruption of their functions can lead to cellular dysfunction and contribute to various diseases . Advances in fluorescent materials and imaging technologies have significantly enhanced the development of probes for detecting organelle-specific parameters and studying their heterogeneity . This review summarizes the design strategies , response mechanisms , and applications of fluorescent probes targeting three key organelles - lysosomes , mitochondria , and lipid droplets - in microenvironmental sensing and heterogeneity analysis , as developed by our group and others . In addition , the challenges faced by organelle imaging and the outlook for future development are also discussed , aiming to inspire further innovation in the design and application of organelle-specific fluorescent probes . FAU - Xiao , Wen-Wen
Pancreatic cancer ( PC ) remains difficult to treat due to its dense extracellular matrix ( ECM ) , immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment ( TME ) , and deep-seated anatomy . To address these challenges , we developed IR&ZnPc@LNP-NO , an ultrasound ( US ) -responsive lipid nanosonosensitizer that synergizes sonodynamic therapy ( SDT ) , chemotherapy , and immunotherapy for orthotopic PC . IR&ZnPc@LNP-NO undergoes three key US-activated responses : 1 ) size reduction , 2 ) controlled release of irinotecan ( IR ) and nitric oxide ( NO ) , and 3 ) generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Under low-dose US , IR&ZnPc@LNP-NO reduces in size ( from approximately 120 to approximately 40 nm ) , enhancing tumor penetration , and releases NO to remodel the TME by normalizing vasculature and degrading ECM . This enhances nanosonosensitizers accumulation and cytotoxic T cells ( CTLs ) infiltration . High-dose US irradiation triggers the generation of cytotoxic ROS , which , in combination with IR-mediated chemotherapy , induces immunogenic cell death ( ICD ) and enhances antitumor immunity . Additionally , combining IR&ZnPc@LNP-NO with PD-L1 antibody ( alphaPD-L1 ) immunotherapy significantly prolongs survival in orthotopic PC models . The cascade strategy-size reduction , TME remodeling , and multimodal therapy-effectively overcomes stromal and immunosuppressive barriers , offering a robust platform for treating deep-seated PC .
In recent years , findings suggest that long noncoding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) are closely related to the development of atherosclerosis ( AS ) , but there is a lack of studies on the involvement of lncRNA-regulated cytosolic burial in the regulation of AS . In this study , we investigated the mechanism by which lncRNA SCARNA8 affects macrophage cell burial to regulate AS . The cytosolic burial-associated target gene regulated by lncRNA SCARNA8 was PPARG . LncRNA SCARNA8 was increased in the carotid unstable plaque group , whereas PPARG was decreased . Ox-LDL led to the up-regulation of lncRNA SCARNA8 expression and apoptosis in Raw7 cells in a time- , concentration-dependent manner . Knockdown of lncRNA SCARNA8 upregulated PPARG and reduced apoptosis in Raw7 cells . In addition , knockdown of lncRNA SCARNA8 improved the stability of atherosclerotic plaques by promoting cellular burial of Raw7 cells . LncRNA SCARNA8 is a key regulator of plaque vulnerability , and targeting lncRNA SCARNA8 May provide a novel means for the prevention and treatment of AS . FAU - Yin , Xiaoliang
Although chronic psychosocial stress is linked to cardiovascular diseases , the underlying mechanisms remain elusive . For this study , we focused on the mitochondrion as a putative mediator of stress-related cardiac pathologies in a sex-dependent manner . Male and female Wistar rats were subjected to chronic stress for 4 weeks ( mimicking an anxious phenotype ) versus matched controls . Cardiac redox status , mitochondrial respiration parameters , and expression levels of proteins involved in mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation , dynamics , and biogenesis were evaluated . Despite limited changes in behavior and circulating stress hormones ( both sexes ) , stressed males exhibited altered cardiac oxidative phosphorylation via beta-oxidation- and glucose oxidation-linked respiratory pathways together with increased myocardial antioxidant capacity and decreased lipid peroxidation . Conversely , stressed females exhibited a protective and resilient phenotype by displaying augmented levels of major mitochondrial respiratory complexes ( complex I , III , and ATP synthase ) and a fusion marker ( mitofusin-2 [Mfn2] ) , together with attenuated expression of a fission marker ( dynamin-related protein-1 [Drp1] ) despite decreased estradiol levels . In contrast , stressed males displayed increased cardiac ATP synthase levels together with diminished peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator-1-alpha ( PGC-1alpha ) expression versus controls . These findings indicate that male mitochondria are more prone to stress-related functional changes , while females exhibited a more protective and resilient phenotype .
Recombinant adeno-associated virus ( rAAV ) vectors are increasingly preferred for in vivo gene therapy due to their broad tropism , low immunogenicity , and sustained transgene expression . Nevertheless , in cases of adverse reactions to these expressions , a method to suppress or permanently halt rAAV transgene activity could significantly enhance the safety of these vectors . To address this need , we employed meganucleases-highly specific DNA endonucleases with long recognition sequences . By placing meganuclease target sites within rAAV transgenes , we created a system in which targeted cleavage leads to controlled disruption of transgene expression . Utilizing a luciferase assay , we screened various meganucleases and identified I-AniI-Y2 , I-BmoI , and I-PpoI as prime candidates due to their high cleavage efficiencies . By strategically placing multiple meganuclease target sequences within introns , as well as in the 5 ' and 3 ' untranslated regions ( UTRs ) of transgenes , we significantly enhanced the cleavage efficiency of these meganucleases , ensuring robust and targeted suppression of transgene expression . Finally , we employed an mRNA-loaded lipid nanoparticledelivery system to demonstrate the ability of meganucleases to robustly inhibit rAAV-mediated transgene expression in vitro . Our findings underscore the potential of meganucleases as a viable safety mechanism in rAAV gene therapies , marking a significant advance toward safer long-term gene therapy approaches . FAU - Tavora , Rubens
Mitochondria-derived vesicles ( MDVs ) participate in early cellular defence mechanisms initiated in response to mitochondrial damage . They maintain mitochondrial quality control ( MQC ) by clearing damaged mitochondrial components , thereby ensuring the normal functioning of cellular processes . This process is crucial for cell survival and health , as mitochondria are the energy factories of cells , and their damage can cause cellular dysfunction and even death . Recent studies have shown that MDVs not only maintain mitochondrial health but also have a significant impact on tumour progression . MDVs selectively encapsulate and transport damaged mitochondrial proteins under oxidative stress and reduce the adverse effects of mitochondrial damage on cells , which may promote the survival and proliferation of tumour cells . Furthermore , it has been indicated that after cells experience mild stress , the number of MDVs significantly increases within 2-6 h , whereas mitophagy , a process of clearing damaged mitochondria , occurs 12-24 h later . This suggests that MDVs play a critical role in the early stress response of cells . Moreover , MDVs also have a significant role in intercellular communication , specifically in the tumour microenvironment . They can carry and transmit various bioactive molecules , such as proteins , nucleic acids , and lipids , which regulate tumour cell ' s growth , invasion , and metastasis . This intercellular communication may facilitate tumour spread and metastasis , making MDVs a potential therapeutic target . Advances in MDV research have identified novel biomarkers , clarified regulatory mechanisms , and provided evidence for clinical use . These breakthroughs pave the way for novel MDV-targeted therapies , offering improved treatment alternatives for cancer patients . Further research can identify MDVs ' role in tumour development and elucidate future cancer treatment horizons .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the associations of polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) intakes with rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) risk , alongside the role of genetic predisposition and the potential mediating effects of circulating proteins . METHODS : Utilizing data from 188 , 597 RA-free participants in the UK Biobank , Cox proportional hazard models assessed the association of PUFAs intakes with RA risk . The polygenic risk score for RA further allowed evaluation of genetic predisposition ' s modifying effects . Olink proteomics identified protein signatures associated with PUFAs intakes and RA risk , with mediation analyses highlighting specific proteins as potential mediators . RESULTS : Over a median follow-up for 1 years , 1 , 640 RA cases were documented . Each one-standard deviation increase in the intakes of stearidonic acid ( SDA ) , eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) , docosapentaenoic acid ( DPA ) , and docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) reduced RA risk by 9%-10% . Among individuals with high genetic risk , n-3 PUFAs intakes ( including SDA , EPA , DPA , and DHA ) significantly decreased RA risk , with antagonistic additive interactions against genetic predisposition . Olink-based proteomic analysis displayed that RA risk and specific n-3 PUFAs intakes ( DHA , DPA , and SDA ) were primarily associated with immune response and inflammation , cytokine interactions , signal transduction , cell adhesion and migration , and metabolic pathways . Mediation analyses identified 55 mediating proteins involved in immune regulation , inflammation , and cell homeostasis . Notably , CD80 and TNFRSF4 emerged as vital mediators in the relationship between specific n-3 PUFAs intakes and RA risk . CONCLUSION : These findings indicated the potential benefits of n-3 PUFAs intakes in reducing RA risk and provided new insights into the mechanisms by which n-3 PUFAs influence RA risk .
This study aimed to explore the association between dietary fiber intake and the risk of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) , as well as liver fat content , while considering genetic predispositions of MASLD , gut microbial abundance , and butyrate levels . This study analyzed data from 190 , 276 participants in the UK Biobank . Dietary fiber intake was assessed using 24-h dietary recall . MASLD cases were diagnosed through hospital admission records and death registries , and liver fat content was measured via magnetic resonance imaging . The genetic predispositions of MASLD , gut microbial abundance , and butyrate levels were evaluated using single nucleotide polymorphisms . Cox proportional hazards models were used to calculate hazard ratios ( HRs ) and 95 % confidence intervals ( CIs ) . Over a median follow-up of 49 years , 1423 MASLD cases were recorded . Elevated dietary fiber intake was associated with a reduced risk of MASLD ( HR : 72 ; 95 % CI : 58 , 90 ) and a lower level of liver fat content ( beta : -97 ; 95 % CI : -21 , -73 ) ( all P for trend <05 ) . Restricted cubic spline analyses further confirmed the linear inverse associations between fiber intake and the risk of MASLD . Notably , the negative associations between dietary fiber intake and both MASLD and liver fat content were consistent across different genetic predispositions of gut microbial abundance and butyrate levels . Moreover , the inverse association between dietary fiber intake and liver fat was strengthened by high genetic susceptibility of MASLD and elevated body mass index ( both P for interaction <05 ) . Overall , increased dietary fiber consumption was associated with a lower MASLD risk and decreased liver fat content regardless of genetic predispositions of gut microbial abundance and butyrate levels .
Ex vivo techniques can provide more physiologically significant insights into prebiotic activity and overcome some limitations of in vitro tests . In this study , an ex vivo model , formed of a large intestine of mice , was tested to assess the effects of the hydrocolloidal natural polymer , xylan ( XY ) , and its hydrolysis product , xylooligosaccharides ( XOS ) . XY and XOS were loaded separately into the cecum , proximal colon , and distal colon . Their utilization and short-chain fatty acid ( SCFA ) formation by the colonized microflora and levels of dominant phyla and key genera such as Bifidobacterium , Bacteroides , and Lactobacillus were followed . XY and XOS were metabolized in all sections , and SCFAs were released . The results suggest that the slower utilization of XY compared to XOS in the cecum can enable this polysaccharide to move towards distal parts of the large intestine and extend the sites of prebiotic activity . Unlike widely used in vitro models , the ex vivo model allowed testing the utilization pattern and effects of the prebiotics in the natural environment of the microflora and examining the intestinal sections separately .
In this study , two novel anti-inflammatory peptides were identified from the hydrolysates of crocodile heads using computer-assisted techniques and in vitro cellular experiments . Their interaction mechanisms were elucidated through molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations . A total of 67 peptides were identified via LC-MS/MS , with AKLDLEEVIK and DFLDLPSIER emerging as promising candidates for anti-inflammatory activity . Results of in vitro cellular experiments demonstrated that these peptides significantly inhibited LPS-stimulated macrophage hyperactivation , resulting in reduced release of nitric oxide ( NO ) and pro-inflammatory cytokines , i . e . , TNF-alpha , IL-1beta , and IL- Molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations and docking analyses revealed that AKLDLEEVIK and DFLDLPSIER displayed high affinity for the TLR4-MD2 complex , with stable and tight interactions . Key residues Arg90 , Ser118 , Cys133 , and Arg264 were identified as critical for the recognition and interaction between the peptides and TLR4-MD This study provides a theoretical foundation for the development of anti-inflammatory functional foods derived from crocodile heads .
Cinnamon essential oil ( CEO ) and coffee polyphenols ( CP ) are both active ingredients from natural plant sources that can be added to foods to create functional foods to promote beneficial health effects . Oat milk ( OM ) is increasingly used in latte making due to its richness in dietary fibre and other benefits , but the addition of both CEO and CP to OM may affect its stability and digestive properties due to their interactions . In this study , self-assembled CEO-CP colloidal dispersion ( CEO-CP-CD ) was first prepared by surfactant-free , carrier-free sonication . The ideal CEO and CP content in CEO-CP-CD was both determined to be 20 mg/mL by particle size and centrifugal stability results . The CEO and CP self-assembled into spherical nanoparticles , forming a lamellar structure through pi-pi stacking and hydrogen bonding . The CEO-CP-CD exhibited enhanced antioxidant and antibacterial activities compared to single components . Finally , CEO-CP-CD was incorporated into OM to create a cinnamon-flavored latte , enhancing its stability and inhibiting microbial growth after 7 days of storage . In vitro digestion revealed that CP delayed carbohydrate digestion by 49 % , while CEO inhibited fat digestion by 23 % . However , in CEO-CP-CD , their combined effects were moderated , reducing carbohydrate digestion by 13 % and fat digestion by 97 % . This study provides insights into the carrier-free co-assembly of essential oils and polyphenols , their small-molecule interactions , and the impact of their binary components on the digestive properties of macronutrients in plant-based milk .
To thoroughly analysis the lipid composition and regularities of distribution in different cashew apple varieties , the fatty acid composition and lipid composition of cashew apples were separated and identified by ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry , and the overall differences and metabolic pathways of lipids in eight cashew apples were analyzed by OPLS-DA and metabolomics . The results showed that cashew apples were composed of 17 fatty acids ( oleic acid and palmitic acid , etc . ) and 320 lipids in eight cashew apples , among which 190 lipid compounds with VIP value greater than 1 were screened out , and the lipid compounds in different cashew apples were quite different . The content of total fatty acids and total sterols was highest in Bra The difference in lipid composition between Moz3 and Gua was the largest , and 67 lipid compounds with significant differences were found , which mainly existed in nine metabolic pathways ( steroid biosynthesis and linoleic acid metabolism , etc . ) . This study provided a scientific basis for the variety identification and functional product development of cashew apples .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is a prevalent metabolic disorder associated with obesity and insulin resistance . Ginsenoside Rk1 ( Rk1 ) , a natural compound extracted from ginseng , exerts various pharmacological effects , including anti-inflammatory , hepatoprotective , hypolipidemic , and insulin-sensitizing properties . This study investigated the therapeutic effects of Rk1 on NAFLD induced by a Western diet in mice and explored the underlying molecular mechanisms . The results showed that Rk1 treatment significantly reduced weight gain , improved insulin sensitivity , and attenuated liver damage and lipid accumulation in the mice . RNA sequencing and molecular analyses showed that Rk1 downregulated the expression of the fatty acid translocase CD36 , and restored AMP-activated protein kinase phosphorylation . Furthermore , Rk1 alleviated hepatic inflammation and oxidative stress in NAFLD mice by affecting the sirtuin 1 ( SIRT1 ) and forkhead box O1 ( FOXO1 ) pathways and regulated fatty acid synthesis by affecting the expression of the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 ( mTORc1 ) and sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c ( SREBP1 ) . These findings highlight the potential of Rk1 as a natural therapeutic agent for NAFLD and contribute to research on the use of functional foods and bioactive compounds for metabolic disease management .
In this study , the synergistic effect of vacuum skin packaging and electrospun film on various quality parameters of grass carp surimi was investigated . Firstly , the cellulose acetate phthalate ( CAP ) films containing oregano essential oil ( OEO ) were prepared by electrospinning . The morphological characterization showed that the electrospun CAP fibers were uniform and bead-free . With the addition of OEO , the diameter of the fibers decreased from 48 mum to 99 mum , and the antioxidant activity of the films ranged from 6 % to 8 % . The inhibition zone diameters of the films against Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus were 2 mm and 8 mm , respectively . Subsequently , the electrospun films and vacuum skin packaging were applied to maintain the quality of grass carp surimi . The pressure reduction during vacuum skin packaging and the subsequent re-pressurization to atmospheric pressure due to gas permeation was utilized to accelerate the two-way mass transfer between the dissolved electrospun film and surimi . During refrigerated storage , the whiteness , water holding capacity , and textural properties of surimi treated with the combined packaging method were maintained better than those of the surimi treated with vacuum skin packaging . Moreover , compared with other treatments , the synergistic packaging method led to the lowest level of pH ( 84 ) , total viable counts ( 56 Log CFU/g ) , total volatile basic nitrogen ( 39 mg N/100 g ) , and lipid oxidation ( 62 mg MDA/kg ) after 8 days of storage . It was concluded that the combination of vacuum skin packaging and electrospun CAP film loaded with OEO could slow down the loss of commercial value and extend the shelf life of grass carp surimi .
This study aimed to explore the distinctive characteristics of smoked cheese made from raw goat ' s milk , labelled " Produkt polski " and crafted in the Lower Silesia region of Poland . A comprehensive range of analyses was performed , including physico-chemical and morpho-textural evaluations , microbial counts , and a metataxonomic investigation to uncover the microbial diversity occurring in the cheese . The volatile organic compounds ( VOCs ) and the total fatty acid composition were also determined . Additionally , a consumer test based on a hedonic scale was conducted to capture the subjective experience of the product ' s appeal . The cheese samples revealed water activity ( a ( w ) ) ranging between 901 +/- 003 and 926 +/- 001 , with pH levels between 08 +/- 15 and 44 +/- Regarding fatty acid composition , all of the smoked cheeses displayed a similar profile , with saturated fatty acids dominating ( SFA , approximately 75 % ) , followed by monounsaturated ( MUFA , approximately 22 % ) and polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA , approximately 3 % ) . Microbial analysis revealed thriving populations , including lactococci ( up to 63 +/- 07 log colony-forming units g ( -1 ) ) , thermophilic cocci ( up to 85 +/- 08 log cfu g ( -1 ) ) , lactobacilli ( up to 50 +/- 04 log cfu g ( -1 ) ) , enterococci ( up to 93 +/- 00 log cfu g ( -1 ) ) , and eumycetes ( up to 68 +/- 48 log cfu g ( -1 ) ) . Metataxonomic analysis identified dominant bacterial taxa such as Lactobacillus , Lactococcus , and Leuconostoc , as well as Carnobacterium and Lacticaseibacillus . Among the 24 lactic acid bacteria cultures isolated , the closest relatives to Enterococcus , Lacticaseibacillus , Lactococcus , and Leuconostoc were identified . Some isolates demonstrated promising pro-technological traits , positioning them as potential adjunct cultures for improving fermented dairy products . The volatile profile of the smoked cheese was particularly intriguing , with a total of 87 VOCs detected , categorized as esters , ketones , hydrocarbons , acids , phenols , alcohols , furans , lactones , aldehydes , and other compounds . Sensory evaluation revealed a moderate appreciation for the cheese ' s appearance , whereas the smoked flavor elicited the most varied scores , highlighting its strong impact on consumer preference .
Herein , three tannic acid ( TA ) -starch nanoparticles ( corn starch [CS] , potato starch [PS] , and mung bean starch [MBS] ) were fabricated as Pickering emulsion stabilizers . Emulsion-loaded lycopene was prepared using a solution of soybean oil and the three complexes ( 3 : 7 , v/v ) . The focus of this study was to evaluate the environmental stability and digestive properties of these emulsions and to reveal the properties of TA/starch complexes and their interfacial structure . Under different environmental stresses , the emulsion size was stabilized at pH 3-7 , while the TA/PS emulsion system increased in alkaline conditions ( pH 9 ) . In addition , the TA/MBS emulsion system exhibited the highest freeze-thaw stability owing to its higher interfacial load and better emulsifying properties . During digestion , the TA/starch complexes gradually fell from the emulsion interface , resulting in the thinning of the interface film ( the emulsion size gradually increased , the size of TA/starch complexes gradually decreased , and the number of complexes first increased and then decreased significantly ) . The TA/MBS emulsion was partly intact and spherical lipids in the intestinal digestion . In addition , the small droplet size of the emulsion made it effective in improving the release of free fatty acids ( TA/MBS = 28 % ) and the bioavailability of lycopene ( TA/MBS [38 %] > TA/CS [67 %] > TA/PS [98 %] ) . Conclusively , the findings of this study can provide new insights into the structural state and digestion properties of starch and TA , which can help formulate a high-nutrient diet .
This study aimed to enhance the stability and bioaccessibility of zeaxanthin dipalmitate ( ZD ) using an oil-in-water emulsion . Flaxseed gum ( FG ) was used as a stabilizer , while ZD was incorporated through a complex of flaxseed protein isolate ( FPI ) and flaxseed polyphenols ( FPP ) ( FPI-FPP ) to develop the emulsion system . The creaming index , droplet size , and zeta potential of the emulsions with varying oil phase fractions were analyzed . It was observed that as the oil phase fraction increased , the creaming index decreased . Notably , at 5 %FG , the droplet size reached its minimum and the distribution was most concentrated . The droplet size was the smallest after one thawing cycle , and the absolute value of zeta potential was the highest . The addition of FG significantly improved the physical and chemical stability of the emulsion . The storage stability and digestive properties of the emulsions were assessed through color difference values , lipid oxidation values , in vitro digestion , free fatty acid release and bioaccessibility . The brightness of FPI emulsions and FPI-FPP emulsions diminished over storage time . The FPI-FPP emulsion exhibited a better retention rate and bioaccessibility of ZD . The successful development of FG-stabilized oil-in-water emulsions provides a novel strategy for delivering water-insoluble bioactive substances .
The rational construction of gel-tailored foods has received increasing attention , and this work establishes a novel ternary gel system by incorporating konjac glucomannan ( KGM ) and fatty acids . The results showed that the introduction of palmitic acid and stearic acid weakened the ordered structure of the system . Meanwhile , incorporating KGM enhanced the system ' s cohesion , which is evident in the increased densification and aggregation behavior within the gel network . Meanwhile , both KGM and fatty acids led to a significant increase in the viscoelasticity of the system . During storage , the crosslinking matrix formed by the two reduced water migration and water loss , slowing down the increase of system hardness ( from 25 g to 22 g ) and effectively prolonging the shelf-life of the product while maintaining the color properties of the gel . These results provide ideas for functionalized gel food design and development while enriching the application scope of miscellaneous grain fractions in foodstuffs .
Butyrospermol is a critical triterpene alcohol , known for its remarkable anti-inflammatory properties in camellia oil . However , its low bioavailability in camellia oil necessitates the development of an effective delivery system . Gum arabic ( GA ) and chitosan ( CH ) were sequentially added to the whey protein isolate ( WPI ) emulsion to form a layer-by-layer structured emulsion . The droplet size , zeta potential , and storage stability were characterized to optimize the ratios . FTIR and fluorescence labeled confocal laser scanning microscopy were employed to characterize the emulsion structure . Pharmacokinetic experiments and in vitro organ imaging were conducted to evaluate the bioavailability enhancement of emulsions . Results showed that adding 6 % GA and 7 % CH to the WPI emulsion resulted in a stable WPI-GA-CH emulsion with 97 mum mean droplet diameter and 27 mV zeta potential . WPI and GA tightly surrounded the oil-water interface , and the droplets were encapsulated within the cavity of CH cluster . Apart from electrostatic interactions , WPI was linked to polysaccharides through hydrogen bond . The prepared WPI-GA-CH emulsion exhibited no stratification after 60 d storage . It enhanced the bioavailability of butyrospermol from 48 % to 35 % , correspondingly , the in vitro organ imaging showed that the CH in the emulsion slowed the transit of oil through the intestine . This study presents a novel emulsion method for delivering butyrospermol in camellia oil and provides insights into the factors influencing its absorption and elimination .
Soy protein isolate ( SPI ) -based films had limited application due to high water vapor permeability ( WVP ) , weak antioxidant and antibacterial activity . Herein , the green sichuan pepper essential oil ( GSPO ) with natural antibacterial and antioxidant effects was added in SPI to prepare SPI-GSPO emulsion film , and the physicochemical properties and antioxidant/antibacterial activity of SPI-GSPO emulsion films were comprehensively evaluated . The results showed that the particle size of SPI-GSPO pre-emulsions decreased and the zeta potential increased as the increasing content of GSPO , providing a well-structured pre-emulsion for the preparation of film . The transparency value , L* and a* of films improved , while the b* , swelling ratio ( SR ) , water solubility ( WS ) , WVP , moisture content ( MC ) , and DeltaE decreased due to more hydrogen bonds formation that replaced hydrophilicity interaction when GSPO incorporated into SPI film . The antibacterial activity of SPI-GSPO emulsion film enhanced with the incorporation of GSPO . Furthermore , the mechanical properties , including tensile strength ( TS ) , elongation at break ( EAB ) , and antioxidant activity improved with GSPO added and reached the maximum value of SPI-GSPO-0 emulsion film . Meanwhile , the upper surface and cross-section structure of SPI-GSPO-0 emulsion film showed smooth and uniform . Overall , it was an effective method to promote the antioxidant , antibacterial activity , and mechanical strength of emulsion films by adding GSPO .
Although plant essential oils are widely recognized for their synergistic antimicrobial effects in postharvest fruit preservation , their use in food preservation coatings is limited due to their low water solubility and high volatility . To address these limitations , a self-assembling material SPI/SA/GSH ( SSG ) was developed by introducing glutathione ( GSH ) into a soy protein isolate ( SPI ) - sodium alginate ( SA ) . The cinnamon essential oil ( CEO ) was encapsulated within this self-assembling material using homogenization and sonication techniques , to enhance its preservation capabilities . The solutions and emulsions composed of SPI , SA , SPI/SA physical complex ( SS ) and SSG particles were compared and evaluated for their structural characteristics and stability , indicating that the introduction of GSH promoted the self-assembly of protein-polysaccharide complexes by breaking disulfide bonds , thereby improving the emulsification and stability of the system . The antibacterial assays showed that the SSG emulsion effectively inhibited the growth of Escherichia coli ( E . coli ) and Staphylococcus aureus ( S . aureus ) . Notably , the SSG displayed a sustained-release effect for CEO , highlighting its potential for controlled-release applications . Furthermore , fresh-cut cantaloupe treated with the SSG coating experienced reduced mass loss and retained firmness , while maintaining levels of ascorbic acid , total soluble solids ( TSS ) , and titratable acidity ( TA ) compared to other treatments . These findings underscore the potential of SSG for improving food preservation and extending shelf life .
In this study , a semi-quantitative lipidomics approach was utilized to comprehensively delineate the alterations in the lipid profiles of sheep milk before and after fermentation . A total of 887 lipids were identified in both raw sheep milk ( RM ) and fermented sheep milk ( FM ) , which could be systematically classified into 30 subclasses , with triglycerides , phosphatidylethanolamines , and phosphatidylcholines emerging as the predominant lipid types in both sample groups . In total , 91 significantly different lipids ( SDLs ) were selected between RM and FM . Compared to RM , 33 SDLs were up-regulated in FM , while 58 SDLs were down-regulated . Furthermore , based on fold change ( FC ) values , phosphatidylserines ( PS ( 18 : 1_20 : 2 ) and PS ( 16 : 0_20 : 0 ) ) and lysophosphatidylethanolamines ( LPE ( 18 : 1/0 : 0 ) and LPE ( 0 : 0/16 : 0 ) ) were selected as potential biomarkers for distinguishing between RM and FM . Further analysis revealed that 91 SDLs were involved in 39 metabolic pathways , with glycerophospholipid metabolism identified as the most crucial among them . These results provided comprehensive lipidomics data on sheep milk and its fermented milk , which are invaluable for investigations into the nutritional health benefits and flavor characteristics of fermented milk .
The infant gut microbiome , which develops from birth , has profound and lasting effects on human health . Its establishment in early life is influenced by events such as delivery mode and feeding type . This study examined the effects of formula milk enriched with sn-2 palmitate on the gut microbiota of healthy term infants . We conducted a 16-week comparative analysis of three feeding groups : infants receiving high sn-2 palmitate formula ( n = 30 ) , regular vegetable oil formula ( n = 32 ) , and breast milk ( n = 30 ) . Using shotgun metagenomic sequencing of fecal samples , we performed a comprehensive assessment of the gut microbiota . While overall microbial composition and diversity were comparable across groups , the functional profile of the microbiome in infants receiving sn-2 palmitate-enriched formula more closely resembled that of breastfed infants compared to the control formula group . This similarity extended to microbial species interactions , virulence gene abundance , and metabolic pathway expression patterns . In addition , sn-2 palmitate promoted the proliferation of Bifidobacterium breve and enhanced the robustness of the gut microbial ecology . Notably , the phylogenetic analysis of B . breve strains in the sn-2 palmitate group showed closer alignment with the breastfed group compared to the control group . These findings suggest that sn-2 palmitate-enriched formula may confer gut microbiota functional benefits that more closely resemble those of breast milk compared to control formula milk . This study provides scientific evidence for the development of future functional infant formulas .
The accumulation of heavy metals ( HMs ) in oilseeds presents a serious risk to food safety , emphasizing the necessity of developing effective methods for producing safe vegetable oils and oilseed meals . This study proposed a biphasic system consisting of methanol , water , and additives as the polar phase and n-hexane as the nonpolar phase to simultaneously extract vegetable oils while removing HMs and anti-nutrients from oilseeds . Results indicated that the optimal oil extraction time for the four oilseeds was 180 min . The highest HMs removal rate of 3 % was achieved using 5 % HCl as an additive . The extracted vegetable oils met both Chinese and international standards for HMs content and adhered to Chinese standards for fatty acid composition ratios . The biphasic system decreased surface functional groups in the oilseed meal by 8-0 % . The oilseed meal retained all its proteins , while glucosinolate and phytic acid contents decreased by 8 % and 2 % , respectively . The flocculation and precipitation method successfully recovered 9 %-6 % of HMs and 2 %-8 % of anions , ensuring that the treated polar phase complied with China ' s surface water quality standards . Consequently , 7 % of the polar phase and 7 % of the nonpolar phase were efficiently recovered and reused , significantly reducing operational costs . The biphasic system maintained high efficiency in oil extraction and HMs removal during the second cycle . Collectively , the biphasic system provided a sustainable and innovative approach for the simultaneous safe production of vegetable oils and oilseed meals .
An emulsion stabilization technique based on molecularly thin cellulose nanoribbons ( CR ) is described , demonstrating superior emulsifying capability at concentrations as low as 05 % . The results show that CR enables the stabilization of oil-in-water emulsions that remain stable for over 60 days , even at high oil-to-water ratios . Rheological assessment reveals a shear-thinning profile and dominance of storage modulus ( G ' ) over loss modulus ( G " ) , signifying the emulsions ' viscoelastic nature and resistance to structural breakdown . In particular , emulsions containing 5 % CR presented exceptional centrifugal stability at 8000 rpm without oil leakage or emulsion breakage . In contrast , emulsions stabilized by cellulose nanocrystals ( CNC ) and nanofibrils ( CNF ) exhibited significantly reduced stability and viscosity . This study underscores CR ' s potential in creating eco-friendly , high-performance food-grade emulsions that meet the burgeoning demands for environmentally friendly and healthy foods .
This study aimed to investigate the effect of milk peptides on irritable bowel syndrome ( IBS ) . The mice were intragastrally administered with casein or whey protein hydrolysates at a dose of 1 g/kg body weight/day for 24 days and were subjected to Citrobacter rodentium infection and water avoidance stress from day 7 to Results indicated that casein and whey protein hydrolysates effectively reduced diarrhea , anxiety , and visceral hypersensitivity in IBS mice . Casein and whey protein hydrolysates regulated gut microbiota composition and increased the abundance of short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria , such as Alloprevotella and Alistipes . Whey protein hydrolysate significantly increased the mRNA levels of zonula occludens-1 ( ZO-1 ) and claudin-1 in the colon , while casein hydrolysate significantly improved the mRNA levels of occludin . Casein and whey protein hydrolysates both decreased the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , while increased the level of anti-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-10 ( IL-10 ) . Importantly , casein and whey protein hydrolysates significantly reduced colonic mast cell activation and decreased prostaglandin E2 ( PGE2 ) production . Moreover , three novel casein-derived cyclooxygenase-2 ( COX2 ) -inhibitory peptides RGPF , FPK , and NPW were identified with IC values of 36 +/- 03 , 64 +/- 01 , and 10 +/- 09 mM , respectively and predicted to form hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions with the residues of the active site of COX This study highlighted the potential of milk peptides as bioactive ingredients in functional foods for managing IBS .
Hyperglycemia leads to metabolic dysfunction in human adipocytes , characterized by decreased AKT phosphorylation , downregulation of glycolysis , TCA cycle , and amino acid metabolism , as well as altered lipid profiles . This study aimed to elucidate these metabolic alterations and evaluate the potential therapeutic effects of selected polyphenols . Comprehensive metabolic profiling revealed profound disruptions , including impaired carbon metabolism , amino acids , and lipids associated with obesity . Importantly , treatment with polyphenols , particularly verbascoside and ferulic acid , effectively mitigated these metabolic disturbances , restoring adipocyte homeostasis . The polyphenols increased metabolites from carbon metabolism and amino acids , improving glycolysis , the TCA cycle , and related pathways . They also modulated lipid profiles that are negatively associated with obesity and related diseases . These findings provide valuable insights into the metabolic pathways underlying adipocyte dysfunction in hyperglycemia and highlight the therapeutic potential of polyphenols in ameliorating metabolic disorders .
INFOGEST became the standard digestion protocol to address inconsistencies in gastrointestinal tract ( GIT ) digestion protocols . However , sample collection , enzymatic inactivation methods , and storage conditions can significantly impact the accurate assessment of food compounds . This study investigates for the first time the impact of inactivation methods ( thermal , pH-based , and specific inhibitors ) and storage conditions ( freezing and freeze-drying ) , following INFOGEST protocol on macronutrients of Pleurotus ostreatus biomass ( used as a model food matrix ) . The results revealed that groups of macromolecules are differently affected by inactivation and storage methods . For alpha-glucans and glucans with different linkages than ( 1 --> 3 ) ( 1 --> 6 ) -beta-glucans , enzyme inactivation seemed to prevent overestimation of enzymatic activity , with freezing emerging as the most promising storage method . For this carbohydrate group , no significant differences were found between inactivation strategies . The results suggested that freezing and thermal inactivation preserve peptide solubility . Additionally , freeze-drying may promote phenolic degradation and reduce antioxidant potential . Depending on the GIT phase , pH-based and specific inhibitors negatively impact these variables . The storage seemed to have no significant effect on fatty acids , enabling the selection of storage conditions based on the stability requirements of other macronutrient groups . Overall , thermal inactivation combined with freezing emerged as an effective , low-cost , and straightforward approach , minimizing post-digestion enzymatic activity and protecting food compounds from degradation . These findings enhance the reproducibility of digestion studies , facilitating inter-laboratory comparisons . Future studies should explore additional macronutrient-rich matrices , particularly those with diverse protein and lipid profiles , to expand the applicability of these findings .
Moringa oleifera Lam . ( Moringa ) is used to make accepted herbal medicines . Although many studies have highlighted the potential clinical applications of Moringa , its use remains uncertain . Therefore , in this research , a novel integrated strategy based on a signature metabolome was applied to drive the precise exploration of Moringa , which was verified in a rat model . The clinical applications predicted by the signature metabolic profile of Moringa was subsequently verified in disease models . Furthermore , after verification by quantitative methods , we used a biomarker , FA 18 : 3/FA 20 : 2 , for earlier detection of alcoholic fatty acid disease . This study demonstrated a convenient strategy for the accurate exploration of Moringa for the first time and verified that metabonomics-based biomarkers can indeed be used for the early detection of new indicators .
Agrocybe cylindracea polysaccharides ( ACP ) are bioactive macromolecules with potential prebiotic properties , yet their digestive stability and microbiota-modulating mechanisms remain unclear . This study aimed to systematically evaluate the in vitro digestion and fermentation characteristics of ACP and its interaction with the gut microbiota . The average molecular weight of ACP was determined to be 39 x 10 Da , and its primary monosaccharides were glucose ( 93 +/- 65 % ) and galactose ( 36 +/- 17 % ) , with a significant content of 1 , 3-Glc linkages . During colonic fermentation , ACP was selectively utilized by gut bacteria , leading to a significant pH reduction and increased production of short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) , particularly acetate , propionate , and butyrate ( total SCFAs : 7 mM at 24 h ) . Furthermore , ACP modulated the composition of gut microbiota by enhancing the relative abundance of beneficial bacteria such as Paraprevotella ( 400-fold increase ) and Bacteroides ( 6-fold increase ) , while suppressing opportunistic pathogens like Fusobacterium and Escherichia . The correlation analysis conducted between SCFAs and gut microbiota indicated the prebiotic potential of ACP , particularly in enriching SCFA-producing bacteria , including Clostridium_sensu_stricto , Gemmiger , Paraprevotella , and Bacteroides . These findings highlight ACP as a structurally stable polysaccharide capable of modulating gut microbiota composition and metabolic activity , supporting its application in functional foods targeting gut health .
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) is a complex metabolic disorder characterized by hyperglycemia and insulin resistance . Plantain shell powder ( PHP ) serves as a high-quality source of dietary fiber , widely utilized in food additives and pharmaceutical applications . In this study , we investigated the hypoglycemic activity and underlying mechanisms of PHP by examining its effects on intestinal microbiota and metabolism in T2DM mice induced by a high-fat diet and streptozotocin ( STZ ) . Our findings indicate that PHP significantly enhances blood glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity , reduces organ damage , and regulates blood lipid levels as well as short-chain fatty acid concentrations ; notably , higher doses of PHP yielded optimal results . In addition , PHP can regulate the ratio of Bacteroidota to Firmicutes and increase the relative abundance of beneficial bacteria such as Bacteroidales , Muribaculaceae , and Parabacteroides . Furthermore , PHP enhances the enrichment of key metabolic pathways , including alpha-linolenic acid metabolism , monobactam biosynthesis , and PPAR signaling pathways , thereby promoting the production of beneficial metabolites . Complex interactions exist among these beneficial bacteria and metabolic pathways that are associated with improved metabolic function , regulation of glucose homeostasis , enhancement of insulin sensitivity , and reduction of inflammation . Our study demonstrates that PHP can ameliorate T2DM by reversing alterations in gut microbiota and metabolic profiles caused by T2DM while promoting the regulation of beneficial microbial populations .
Prediabetes represents a pivotal stage in the development and pathogenesis of diabetes , during which notable alterations in the gut microbiota can be observed . Vitamin D ( VD ) showed anti-diabetic properties , but it is unknown whether the improvement of VD on hyperglycemia is associated with gut microbiota . Thus , our objective was to investigate and verify the effects of VD on glucose metabolism in prediabetes , as well as to elucidate the underlying mechanisms . In this study , different concentrations of VD were intraperitoneally administered to prediabetic mice induced by high fat diet for 16 weeks . Biochemical analyses , oral glucose tolerance test , 16S rRNA and untargeted metabolomics were used , the mechanism was explored . Then , fecal suspensions collected from the above donors were transplanted into KKay mice for 6 weeks , and the relevant indicators were measured . The results showed that VD intervention alleviated glucose metabolism in KKay mice . It increased the protein expression of colon tight junction proteins , alleviated metabolic endotoxemia and inflammation , so that reduced tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNFalpha ) induced toll-like receptor 4/nuclear factor kappa-B ( TLR4/NFkappaB ) and improvement of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B ( PI3K/AKT ) insulin signaling pathway . VD affected the structure of gut microbiota and metabolites , and functional prediction analysis suggested that VD may affect carbohydrate . Besides , the effect of VD could be delivered by fecal microbiota transplantation ( FMT ) . Consequently , VD ameliorate glucose metabolism by modulating gut microbiota and metabolites in KKay mice , and this ability could be transferred by FMT .
Breast milk , recognized as the most natural and optimal source of nutrition for infants , is indispensable for their growth and development . Accumulating evidence underscores the pivotal role of amino acids ( AAs ) as essential precursors in milk synthesis , supporting mammary gland functionality and milk production through the regulation of cellular metabolism and growth . This review comprehensively examines the influence of AAs on mammary epithelial cells ( MECs ) proliferation and the structural integrity of the blood-milk barrier ( BMB ) . Specifically , we highlight the mechanisms by which AAs facilitate the synthesis of milk proteins and lipids , as well as their role in modulating prolactin ( PRL ) release within the neuroendocrine system . Furthermore , we provide an in-depth analysis of amino acid metabolism in mammary lactation , offering novel insights into how AAs enhance mammary gland lactation capacity . These findings not only advance our understanding of AAs functions in lactation but also present innovative strategies for optimizing breast milk synthesis .
To investigate the inhibitory potential of plant-degraded polysaccharides on glycosidases and elucidate the mechanism by which they alleviate type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) , a degraded sweet corn cob polysaccharide ( UHDSCP ) was prepared using ultrasound-assisted hydrogen peroxide-ascorbic acid oxidation ( HO/Vc ) . UHDSCP was subsequently characterized using various analytical techniques , including UV spectroscopy , Fourier transform infrared ( FT-IR ) spectroscopy , gel permeation chromatography ( GPC ) , high-performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) , scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , and atomic force microscopy ( AFM ) . Our findings indicated that UHDSCP has a molecular weight of 82 kDa and is composed primarily of mannose , glucose , galactose , and fucose at a molar ratio of 705 : 301 : 077 : Additionally , UHDSCP exhibited alpha- and beta-glycosidic bonds . Our findings revealed that UHDSCP can inhibit the activity of alpha-amylase and alpha-glucosidase and reduce oxidative stress in vitro . UHDSCP also exerted a hypoglycemic effect in T2DM mice , as determined by a decrease in the activities of disaccharidases in the small intestine , including maltase , sucrase , and lactase . Additionally , UHDSCP could modulate lipid metabolism in T2DM mice and alleviate oxidative stress in hepatic and pancreatic tissues . Moreover , UHDSCP ameliorated T2DM-induced inflammatory responses in the intestine and liver by restoring the integrity of the intestinal barrier . Considering these results , this study can serve as a reference for the inclusion of UHDSCP in the diet to exert hypoglycemic effects and alleviate T2DM through multiple pathways .
Wildlife have become increasingly dependent on anthropogenic resources , altering interactions between individuals and subsequently disease transmission . Further , nutritional quantity and quality impact an individual ' s ability to mitigate damage caused by infectious disease . Thus , understanding how diet affects immune function is critical for predicting disease severity and transmission . Here , we use transcriptomics to explore the previously unstudied molecular mechanisms underpinning diet-driven differences in pathogen tolerance . Using a widespread avian bacterial pathogen , we find significant diet-driven differences in the expression of many genes encoding immune response and translational machinery proteins . Prior to infection , protein-fed birds are more transcriptionally primed for infection than lipid-fed birds , resulting in greater tolerance for protein-fed birds during the recovery period . Given the importance of human supplemented food in wildlife disease systems , the molecular mechanisms by which interactions between diet and infection emerge provide insight into the ecological and immunological consequences of human behaviour on wildlife disease .
INTRODUCTION : Cerebral microhemorrhages ( CMHs ) are detectable by magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) . CMHs in deep brain regions are linked to hypertensive vasculopathy , while those in lobar regions with amyloid beta ( Abeta ) deposition in blood vessels . This study aims to determine the association between anti-thrombotic treatment and CMH prevalence among cognitively asymptomatic adults , and to assess the role of Abeta markers , apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) epsilon4 carrier status , and cardiovascular risk factors in CMH development . METHODS : Using baseline data from the Anti-Amyloid Treatment in Asymptomatic Alzheimer ' s Disease ( A4 ) and Longitudinal Evaluation of Amyloid Risk and Neurodegeneration ( LEARN ) studies , we examined CMH presence via 3T MRI , along with medication use , APOE epsilon4 carrier status , medical history , and blood pressure . RESULTS : Our analysis showed a significantly higher prevalence of CMHs in the A4 cohort ( 3% ) compared to the LEARN cohort ( 6% ) . DISCUSSION : Factors such as male sex , age , Abeta markers , and APOE epsilon4 status were significantly associated with higher CMH prevalence in the A4 cohort . However , anti-thrombotic treatment did not show association with overall CMHs . HIGHLIGHTS : Male sex , age > 75 , amyloid beta ( Abeta ) burden , and apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) epsilon4 homozygosity are significantly associated with higher prevalence of CMHs ( cerebral microhemorrhages ) in a cohort of cognitively asymptomatic individuals . Male sex , age > 75 , Abeta burden , and APOE epsilon4 homozygosity are significantly associated with higher prevalence of lobar CMHs in a cohort of cognitively asymptomatic individuals . Anti-platelet or anti-coagulant usage were not associated with an increased prevalence of CMHs in either brain location or overall , in a cohort of cognitively asymptomatic individuals . History of a lipid disorder is associated with a higher prevalence of lobar CMHs in a cohort of cognitively asymptomatic individuals .
INTRODUCTION : Sleep dysfunction in those at higher risk of dementia may be associated with early structural changes to the hypothalamus . METHODS : We used multivariate regression to analyze self-reported sleep ( Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index [PSQI] ) from cognitively healthy participants in the PREVENT Dementia and Alzheimer ' s and Families ( ALFA ) studies ( n = 1939 ) , stratified by apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) genotype as homozygotes , heterozygotes , and non-carriers . FreeSurfer was used to extract hypothalamic subunit volumes from T1-weighted magnetic resonance images . RESULTS : APOE epsilon4 homozygotes had a larger anterior-superior hypothalamus compared to heterozygotes and non-carriers , an effect which was driven by younger people in the cohort . APOE epsilon4 carriers had a higher PSQI global score after age 55 , and smaller anterior-superior and tubular-superior subunits were associated with more sleep disturbances . Sleep duration and efficiency worsened with age , but only in participants with a small anterior-inferior hypothalamus . DISCUSSION : This suggests that aging and APOE epsilon4 are associated with hypothalamic changes , highlighting mechanisms linking sleep dysfunction to dementia . HIGHLIGHTS : Apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) epsilon4 homozygotes ha a larger anterior-superior hypothalamus . APOE epsilon4 carriers have worse sleep , but only after age Worse sleep in APOE epsilon4 carriers was associated with smaller hypothalamic subunits . Higher age was associated with worse sleep in people with a small hypothalamus .
BACKGROUND : Schizophrenia ( SCZ ) is a chronic mental disorder characterized by severe impairments in the daily functioning and social interactions of the patient . Compared to conventional pharmacological interventions , electroencephalogram ( EEG ) biofeedback offers stable and sustained effects and reduces susceptibility to relapse . This study aimed to investigate the impact of EEG biofeedback combined with olanzapine ( OLZ ) on glucose and lipid metabolism , cardiac function , and cognitive ability in SCZ patients . METHODS : A retrospective analysis was conducted on the medical records of 66 SCZ patients who received treatment at Taizhou Second Peoples ' Hospital between June 2023 and March The patients were categorized into groups based on their treatment regimens : a single group ( n = 30 ) and a combined therapy group ( EEG biofeedback + OLZ , n = 36 ) . Treatment efficacy and adverse reactions were compared between the groups . Key parameters assessed included glucose and lipid metabolism [total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglyceride ( TG ) , and fasting plasma glucose ( FPG ) ] , electrocardiographic ( ECG ) findings [T-wave changes , ST-segment changes , sinus bradycardia , sinus tachycardia , and other abnormalities] , symptom severity [Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale ( PANSS ) ] , and cognitive function [Insight and Treatment Attitudes Questionnaire ( ITAQ ) ] before and after treatment . RESULTS : The total effective rate in the combined therapy group ( 67% ) was significantly higher than in the single group ( 33% ) ( p < 05 ) . Post-treatment , both groups exhibited significantly lower TC and FPG levels and higher TG levels compared to pre-treatment values ( p < 05 ) . However , no significant differences were observed between groups in these metabolic indices ( p > 05 ) . Similarly , no significant differences in ECG abnormalities were detected between groups , either pre- or post-treatment ( p > 05 ) . The combined therapy group demonstrated significantly greater improvements in general psychopathological symptoms , positive symptoms , negative symptoms , and PANSS scores , as well as significantly higher ITAQ scores compared to the single group ( p < 05 ) . The incidence of adverse reactions did not significantly differ between the single group ( 67% ) and the combined therapy group ( 89% ) ( p > 05 ) . CONCLUSION : EEG biofeedback combined with OLZ improves psychiatric symptoms and cognitive function of SCZ patients compared to OLZ monotherapy . Notably , the combined therapy does not exacerbate ECG abnormalities , metabolic indices , or adverse reactions , indicating a favorable safety profile . FAU - Xu , Weiwen
INTRODUCTION : The spatial heterogeneity of tau deposition is closely linked to clinical variants of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . Detecting these patterns in the preclinical stage is challenging , but second-generation tau tracers provide a unique opportunity to do so . METHODS : We used independent component analysis ( ICA ) and tau positron emission tomography ( PET ) imaging with the 18F-MK6240 tracer in 590 cognitively healthy adults ( mean age 58 +/- 13 years , 340 females ) to identify tau patterns in the preclinical stage . RESULTS : Using all individuals , seven distinct patterns emerged , with medial temporal lobe ( MTL ) involvement associated with age , Abeta burden , apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) genotype , and plasma total tau . Bilateral amygdala-hippocampus tau deposition was associated negatively with memory ( t = -64 , p < 01 ) , while broader neocortical patterns , especially asymmetric ones , were linked to deficits in language ( t < -13 , p < 002 ) and reasoning ( t < -63 , p < 01 ) . DISCUSSION : These findings advance our understanding of preclinical tau heterogeneity , offering new insights for early AD intervention . HIGHLIGHTS : Seven tau deposition patterns were identified in preclinical stages of AD , including medial temporal lobe and asymmetric neocortical patterns . Medial temporal lobe patterns were strongly linked to age , APOE genotype , Abeta burden , and plasma total tau levels . Neocortical patterns , especially asymmetric ones , were linked to domain-specific cognitive deficits , notably in language and reasoning . This research highlights the potential of using tau deposition patterns for early detection and tailoring interventions in preclinical AD .
BACKGROUND : Microbial lipid extraction is a critical process in the production of biofuels and other valuable chemicals from oleaginous microorganisms . The process involves the separation of lipids from microbial cells . Given the complexity of microbial cell walls and the demand for efficient and environmentally friendly extraction methods , further research is still needed in this area . This study aims to pursue the extraction of intracellular lipids from oleaginous yeasts using inexpensive solvents , without disrupting the cells and even maintaining a certain level of cell viability . RESULTS : The study used fresh fermentation broth of Rhodotorula toruloides as the lipid extraction target and employed a binary solvent of methyl tert-butyl ether ( MTBE ) and n-hexane for lipid extraction . The effects of extraction time and solvent ratio on cell viability , lipid extraction efficiency , and fatty acid composition were analyzed . Conditions that balanced lipid yield and cell survival were selected for lipid extraction . Specifically , using a binary solvent ( with 40% MTBE ) to extract an equal volume of R . toruloides fermentation broth achieved a total lipid extraction rate of 60% , while maintaining a 5% cell survival rate ( the surviving cells served as the seed for the second round of lipid production ) . After separating the solvent phase and supplementing the lipid-extracted cells with carbon sources and a small amount of nitrogen sources , the cells gradually regained biomass and produced lipids . Repeating this " gentle " extraction on surviving and regrown cells and adding carbon and nitrogen sources can enable a second round of growth and lipid production in these cells . CONCLUSIONS : This is an interesting finding that may potentially encompass the extraction mechanisms of polar/nonpolar solvents and the phenomenon of yeast autophagy . This method does not require the destruction of the cell wall of oleaginous yeast . The separation after extraction is simple , and both the cells and solvents can be recycled . It provides a possible approach for simultaneous fermentation and lipid extraction .
BACKGROUND : In tumors rich in adipose tissue , angiogenesis is a critical factor in promoting cancer cell metastasis . However , the connection between angiogenesis and the mechanisms driving adipose metabolic remodeling in breast cancer ( BC ) remains insufficiently understood . This research seeks to explore whether and how CPT1A , a crucial rate-limiting enzyme in fatty acid oxidation ( FAO ) , supports angiogenesis through metabolic pathways in BC . METHODS : First , cell functional assays and animal models were employed to elucidate the pro-carcinogenic effects of CPT1A on BC and its role in metabolic alterations . Following this , the reciprocal regulatory relationship between CPT1A and HIF-1alpha was elucidated using transcriptomic studies , ubiquitination analysis , and dual-luciferase assays . Matrigel tube formation assays , vasculogenic mimicry assays , and chick chorioallantoic membrane ( CAM ) assays were utilized to evaluate the effect of CPT1A on the pro-angiogenic properties of BC . Subsequently , untargeted metabolomics was employed to identify specific metabolic changes in supernatants with and without CPT1A expression and verified by functional recovery experiments . Finally , the prognostic significance of CPT1A and the vascular marker VEGF in BC tissues was evaluated using tissue microarrays and public databases . RESULTS : CPT1A overexpression significantly enhanced cell proliferation , motility , and angiogenesis via activating the FAO metabolic pathway , as demonstrated by both in vivo and in vitro experiments . Mechanistically , CPT1A regulates the ubiquitination level of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha ( HIF-1alpha ) , which directly binds to the CPT1A promoter . Mutations at the 63-74 and 434-445 regions significantly reduced CPT1A promoter activity , indicating that these sites are critical for its transcriptional regulation . Ultimately , this interaction creates a reinforcing feedback loop between CPT1A and HIF-1alpha . Subsequently , this feedback loop alters changes in extracellular L-ascorbic acid ( LAA ) levels . Interestingly , LAA affects ROS homeostasis through the Nrf2/NQO1 pathway , specifically influencing angiogenesis in BC and HUVECs , while having no significant effect on their proliferation or EMT process . Moreover , increased expression levels of CPT1A and vascular endothelial growth factor ( VEGF ) were significantly associated with lymph node metastasis and adverse outcomes in BC patients . CONCLUSION : The CPT1A/HIF-1alpha positive feedback loop critically regulates angiogenesis through activation of the Nrf2/NQO1 pathway , modulated by LAA . These findings highlight CPT1A and VEGF as promising therapeutic targets and prognostic biomarkers for angiogenesis in BC .
BACKGROUND : The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index was associated with higher risk of mortality in individuals with Cardiovascular-Kidney-Metabolic ( CKM ) syndrome stages 0- However , the relationship between cumulative of TyG ( cumTyG ) and incidence of stroke remains unclear in individuals with CKM syndrome stages 0- METHOD : Participants with CKM syndrome stage 0-3 were enrolled from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) from 2011 to TyG was calculated as ln [fasting triglyceride ( mg/dL ) xfasting glucose ( mg/dL ) /2] , and the cumTyG , as an area-under-the-curve estimate ( mean TyG x time span ) , was calculated as ( TyG + TyG ) /2 * time ( ( 2015-2012 ) ) . TyG control levels were classified using k-mean clustering analysis . Logistic regression was used to analyze the effect of cumTyG and TyG control levels on the incidence of stroke . Restricted cubic spline models ( RCS ) were performed to explore the potential non-linear relationship between cumTyG and stroke risk at different CKM syndrome stages 0- RESULTS : A total of 4 , 700 CKM syndrome stages 0-3 participants were enrolled , among 280 patients had developed stroke during the 3-year follow-up period . After adjusting for confounders , compared to class 1 group , the odds ratio ( OR ) of incidents of stroke for class 2 was 39 [95% confidence interval ( CI ) 003 , 92] , P = 046 ; the OR of incidents of stroke for class 3 was 28 ( 95% CI 92-77 ) , P = 147 , the OR of incidents of stroke for class 4 was 28 ( 95% CI 84-94 ) , P = Elevated cumTyG was associated with an increase in incidence of stroke ( OR 13 , 95% CI 05 , 22 , P = 002 ) . The relationship between the cumTyG index and stroke was linear in restricted cubic spline regression . CONCLUSIONS : Elevated cumTyG was associated with an increased risk of stroke events in the population of CKM syndrome stages 0- Long-term dynamic monitoring of changes of TyG may help in the early identification of patients at high risk of developing stroke in the individuals with CKM syndrome stages 0-
PURPOSE : This study aimed to explore metabolite pathways and identify residual metabolites during the post-neonatal intrahepatic cholestasis caused by citrin deficiency ( post-NICCD ) phase , while developing a predictive model for failure to thrive ( FTT ) using selected metabolites . METHOD : A case-control study was conducted from October 2020 to July 2024 , including 16 NICCD patients , 31 NICCD-matched controls , 34 post-NICCD patients , and 70 post-NICCD-matched controls . Post-NICCD patients were further stratified into two groups based on growth outcomes . Biomarkers for FTT were identified using Lasso regression and random forest analysis . A non-invasive predictive model was developed , visualized as a nomogram , and internally validated using the enhanced bootstrap method . The model ' s performance was evaluated with receiver operating characteristic curves and calibration curves . Metabolite concentrations ( amino acids , acylcarnitines , organic acids , and free fatty acids ) were measured using liquid chromatography or ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry . RESULTS : The biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids was identified as the most significantly altered pathway in post-NICCD patients . Twelve residual metabolites altered during both NICCD and post-NICCD phases were identified , including : 2-hydroxyisovaleric acid , alpha-ketoisovaleric acid , C5 : 1 , 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid , C18 : 1OH , C20 : 4 , myristic acid , eicosapentaenoic acid , carnosine , hydroxylysine , phenylpyruvic acid , and 2-methylcitric acid . Lasso regression and random forest analysis identified kynurenine , arginine , alanine , and aspartate as the optimal biomarkers for predicting FTT in post-NICCD patients . The predictive model constructed with these four biomarkers demonstrated an AUC of CONCLUSION : While post-NICCD patients recover clinically and biochemically , their metabolic profiles remain incompletely restored . The predictive model based on kynurenine , arginine , alanine , and aspartate provides robust diagnostic performance for detecting FTT in post-NICCD patients .
BACKGROUND : Preterm birth ( PTB ) is a major contributor to neonatal morbidity , mortality , and long-term health complications . Despite advances in perinatal care , PTB rates remain high , and its multifactorial etiology is not fully understood . Increasing evidence suggests that maternal gut microbiota plays a critical role in pregnancy maintenance , potentially through modulation of immune responses . However , the underlying causal mechanisms remain unclear . We hypothesized that dysbiosis disrupts immune tolerance and promotes PTB , and that butyrate ( short-chain fatty acid produced by specific gut bacteria ) may counteract this effect by enhancing regulatory T cell ( Treg ) -mediated immune regulation . METHODS : We established a dysbiosis-induced PTB mouse model using vancomycin treatment combined with subclinical immune activation via anti-CD3epsilon antibody . Pregnant mice were fed either a standard or butyrate-enriched diet . Outcomes included gestational length , PTB incidence , live pup rates , and Treg cell levels assessed by flow cytometry . Parallelly , 16S rRNA gene sequencing was performed on fecal samples from 32 pregnant women to compare gut microbial composition between spontaneous PTB and term birth groups . Multivariate logistic regression and correlation analyses were conducted to assess associations with gestational outcomes . RESULTS : Vancomycin-induced dysbiosis in mice significantly reduced Treg cell populations and increased PTB rates ( 3% in dysbiosis vs . 0% in controls ; p < 05 ) , while butyrate supplementation reduced PTB incidence ( p = 03 ) , prolonged gestation ( p = 01 ) , and restored Treg counts ( p < 001 ) . In human samples , significant reductions in Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae , representative butyrate-producing bacteria , were seen in PTB cases . Their combined abundance was independently associated with sPTB risk ( p = 019 ) and positively correlated with gestational age ( r = 59 , p < 001 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings demonstrate that maternal dysbiosis increases PTB risk via impaired immune tolerance , and that butyrate supplementation effectively reverses this effect in vivo . Human data support the translational relevance of butyrate-producing microbiota in pregnancy maintenance . These results highlight butyrate as a promising target for dietary interventions aimed at reducing PTB incidence by restoring immune homeostasis . Trial registration Not applicable .
Solanine has been shown to inhibit cancer by regulating the expression of apoptosis ( Bax , Bcl-2 ) and metastasis ( CDH-1 , MMP2 ) genes in various cancer cell types . We synthesized optimized niosome NPs ( NPs ) with high solubility and capacity for solanine loading . In this study , the cytotoxic , cell cycle inhibitory and apoptotic effects of solanine-loaded niosome NPs ( SN-NPs ) on MCF-7 were investigated . Thin-layer hydration was used to generate SN-NPs and their features were validated . The pH-dependent solanine release pattern was also examined . Synthesized SN-NPs were evaluated for cytotoxicity against MCF-7 and MCF-10 cell lines using MTT . Primary and secondary apoptosis , necrosis , and cell cycle arrest were measured using flowcytometry . Lastly , q-PCR was used to assess the expression of genes . The NPs had an average size between 50 and 70 nm , with a polydispersity index ( PDI ) of Solanine was effectively incorporated into noisome NPs , as shown by the high encapsulation efficiency of 3%+/-24% . After a quick burst at pH 7 and 5 , SN-NPs released slowly and sustainedly . The IC of solanine-loaded niosomes against MCF-7 cells decreased from 40 mg/100 mL to 10 mg/100 mL ( 48 h ) and 5 mg/100 mL ( 72 h ) . After 72 h , SN-NPs caused late apoptosis in 30% of MCF-7 cells and necrosis in 06% ( p < 01 ) . SN-NPs caused 81% of cells to arrest in the G0/G1 phase , with only 12% progressing to G2/M ( p < 01 ) . Solanine-loaded NPs significantly increased Bax and CDH-1 gene expression in malignant cells compared to free niosomes and free solanine ( p < 0001 ) . Bcl-2 and MMP2 expression significantly decreased in this group compared to free niosomes and free solanine ( p < 001 ) . Solanine-containing niosomes showed significant anticancer effects on MCF-7 breast cancer cells , which were supported by apoptosis , cell cycle arrest and regulation of gene expression . The regulated release and precise delivery of solanine using SN-NPs show considerable translational potential . This improved nanocarrier technology may increase the bioavailability and efficacy of solanine , potentially leading to improved clinical outcomes in breast cancer therapy .
BACKGROUND : Increasing endocannabinoids ( endoCBs ) , anandamide ( AEA ) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol ( 2-AG ) , through inhibition of the degrading hydrolase enzymes , fatty acid amide hydrolase ( FAAH ) and monoacylglycerol lipase ( MAGL ) , respectively , has been proposed as approach to alleviate migraine pain . Notwithstanding , the impact of AEA and 2-AG on neuronal firing of meningeal afferents , which is relevant to the genesis of migraine pain , remains elusive . METHODS : The impact of AEA and 2-AG on meningeal nerve afferent firing was examined through electrophysiological evaluation upon application of 50 mM KCl with or without DMSO , exogenous AEA ( 10 microM ) , or 2-AG ( 10 microM ) to separate groups of C57BL/6J mouse hemiskull preparations . At the end of each experiment , capsaicin ( 1 microM ) , an agonist of TRPV1 channels , was tested , as a positive control of presumably nociceptive firing . Advanced clustering and spectral analysis on the electrophysiological data allowed differentiating spiking patterns with respect to their temporal and neurochemical profiles . Activity-based protein profiling and liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry was used to assess endogenous FAAH and MAGL activity and determine endogenous levels of AEA and 2-AG in mouse meninges . RESULTS : Local application of endoCBs decreased KCl-induced firing of meningeal nerve afferents , which was most profound for AEA . AEA first produced a short , mild activation in firing , which was followed by a long-lasting reduction . Instead , 2-AG directly led to a short-lasting reduction in firing . Cluster analysis revealed that the transient activation by AEA involved fibers with small-amplitude spikes fired at rates of 1-2 Hz , whereas the persistently suppressed fibers consisted of high-amplitude spikes fired at rates exceeding 10 Hz . Only AEA inhibited subsequent capsaicininduced firing in the afferents long after AEA application , suggesting a broader mode of action for AEA than 2-AG . The more profound inhibitory effects of AEA are consistent with the observed higher activity of FAAH over MAGL and lower level of endogenous AEA than 2-AG in mouse meninges . CONCLUSION : Our study revealed a stronger anti-nociceptive action of AEA than of 2-AG , as measured by meningeal afferent firing in mouse hemiskulls . This difference can be exploited for relieving migraine pain by primarily increasing the tone of AEA through inhibition of FAAH outside the central nervous system .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the associations between cerebral microhemorrhages ( CMH ) and cognitive decline across the Alzheimer ' s dementia continuum . METHODS : Using the Alzheimer ' s Disease Neuroimaging Initiative ( ADNI ) database , we studied 619 participants , categorized into 221 cognitively normal ( CN ) participants , 281 patients with mild cognitive impairment ( MCI ) , and 117 patients with Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . CMH prevalence and distribution were determined using T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) , focusing on the frontal , occipital , and parietal subcortical regions of interest ( ROIs ) . Clinical dementia rating scale sum of boxes ( CDR-SB ) and mini-mental state examination ( MMSE ) were used for diagnosis and composite cognitive scores regarding visuospatial abilities , language , memory , and executive functions were used as outcome variables . Age , gender , and APOE epsilon4 positivity status were used as covariates . RESULTS : The AD group displayed significantly elevated tau and P-tau levels compared to MCI and CN groups ( p < 001 ) . APOE epsilon4 positivity was 5% in the AD group , surpassing the 2% in MCI and 29% in CN individuals ( p < 001 ) . Cognitive assessments revealed that the AD group ' s CDR-SB score and MMSE both significantly differed from these scores in the MCI and CN groups ( p < 001 ) . Overall , CMH prevalence was 7% , with a predominant distribution in the frontal subcortical ROIs . MCI subjects with CMH showed notably diminished ADNI Visuospatial Composite Scores compared to those without CMH . Age significantly predicted CMH in CN and MCI ( p < 05 ) . In AD participants , APOE epsilon4 heterozygotes ( p = 02 ) and homozygotes ( p = 01 ) hadincreased CMH likelihood . CONCLUSION : CMHs are significantly associated with cognitive decline in patients with MCI . This association is more prominent in regard to the decline in visuospatial abilities .
S . Plasma lipids in circulation are integral to the physiopathological processes of the ovary and may impact the development of various ovarian conditions , including ovarian cancer ( OC ) . This study utilized a two-sample Mendelian randomization method to examine the causal link between changes in 179 plasma lipid groups and ovarian cancer ( OC ) to gain deeper insights into this association . We used the inverse variance weighted ( IVW ) method as the main tool for analysis . We utilized statistical data from plasma lipidomics involving 7 , 174 Finnish individuals and OC data from the FinnGen consortium , including 2 , 339 European OC patients and 222 , 078 European healthy controls . Our analysis revealed that elevated levels of four plasma lipids-Phosphatidylcholine ( 14 : 0_16 : 0 , O-18 : 2_18 : 2 , 16 : 0_20 : 4 ) -are linked to an increased risk of OC , while Sphingomyelin ( d34 : 2 ) seems to act as a protective factor ( all P < 05 ) . We also conducted tests for heterogeneity and pleiotropy in the MR results . Additionally , reverse MR analysis indicated that OC does not affect plasma levels of these lipids . To determine whether the observed significant plasma lipids influence OC through common risk factors , we selected BMI as a confounder for multivariable Mendelian randomization ( MVMR ) analysis . The results showed that Sphingomyelin ( d34 : 2 ) levels remained significantly associated with OC even after including BMI as an exposure factor . Furthermore , we investigated whether these four lipids mediated the effect of BMI on OC but found no evidence supporting their mediating role . In summary , our findings confirm a causal link between certain plasma lipid species and OC , providing fresh perspectives for risk evaluation and potential therapeutic strategies .
This review summarizes recent findings on the role of M2 tumor-associated macrophages ( TAMs ) and their exosome-derived non-coding RNAs ( ncRNAs ) in cancer cell resistance to therapeutics . M2 TAMs promote angiogenesis , suppress immune responses , and facilitate metastasis , thereby creating a tumor-supporting microenvironment . A range of antitumor drugs , including 5-FU , cisplatin , and gemcitabine , are mediated by M2 exosomes , each with distinct mechanisms of action . M2 exosomes transfer drug resistance capabilities via extracellular vesicles , especially exosomes containing miRNAs , lncRNAs , and circRNAs . These exosome mediate the development of tumor drug resistance by regulating signaling pathways such as PI3K/AKT , MAPK/ERK , Wnt/beta-catenin M2 exosomes can regulate cellular responses by delivering bioactive molecules , including proteins , lipids , and ncRNA , which can also modulate cellular reactions to ionizing radiation , ultraviolet light , and chemotherapeutic agents . Targeting M2 TAMs and their exosome-mediated ncRNAs may offer new strategies to overcome drug resistance in cancer .
Prostate cancer ( PCa ) remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality , necessitating robust prognostic models and personalized therapeutic strategies . This study integrated bulk RNA sequencing , single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) , and spatial transcriptomics to construct a prognostic model based on genes shared between ferroptosis and fatty acid metabolism ( FAM ) . Using the TCGA-PRAD dataset , we identified 73 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) at the intersection of ferroptosis and FAM , of which 19 were significantly associated with progression-free survival ( PFS ) . A machine learning-based prognostic model , optimized using the Lasso + Random Survival Forest ( RSF ) algorithm , achieved a high C-index of 876 and demonstrated strong predictive accuracy ( 1- , 2- , and 3-year AUCs : 77 , 75 , and 78 , respectively ) . The model , validated in the DFKZ cohort , stratified patients into high- and low-risk groups , with the high-risk group exhibiting worse PFS and higher tumor mutation burden ( TMB ) . Functional enrichment analysis revealed distinct pathway activities , with high-risk patients showing enrichment in immune-related and proliferative pathways , while low-risk patients were enriched in metabolic pathways . Immune microenvironment analysis revealed heightened immune activity in high-risk patients , characterized by increased infiltration of CD8 + T cells , regulatory T cells , and M2 macrophages , alongside elevated TIDE scores , suggesting immune evasion and resistance to immunotherapy . In contrast , low-risk patients exhibited higher infiltration of plasma cells and neutrophils and demonstrated better responses to immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) . Spatial transcriptomics and scRNA-seq further elucidated the spatial distribution of model genes , highlighting the central role of macrophages in mediating risk stratification . Additionally , chemotherapy sensitivity analysis identified potential therapeutic agents , such as Erlotinib and Picolinic acid , for low-risk patients . In vitro experiments showed that overexpression of CD38 in the PC-3 cell line led to elevated lipid peroxidation ( C11-BODIPY ) and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , suggesting increased cell ferroptosis . These findings provide a comprehensive framework for risk stratification and personalized treatment in PCa , bridging molecular mechanisms with clinical outcomes .
The response of pediatric dilated cardiomyopathy ( PDCM ) patients to intravenous immune globulin ( IVIG ) varies from cardiac functional recovery to heart transplantation and even death . IVIG therapy can significantly improve the left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) in some PDCM patients , but indicators for evaluating the response to IVIG therapy are lacking . Lipid metabolic disturbance is associated with changes in cardiac function , but no studies have examined the associations between lipidomics markers and the efficacy of IVIG . Discovery analyses were based on 322 targeted lipids in a retrospective cohort study . T tests , orthogonalorthogonal projections to latent structures discriminant analysis ( OPLS-DA ) and random forest ( RF ) analysis were used to screen the candidate lipids . Associations of the candidate lipids were examined via Cox proportional hazards regression models . We subsequently developed a score for the candidate lipid metabolites , which was then used to classify children into two groups ( 0-3 and 4 ) , and the survival curves of the two groups were drawn . There were 31 patients in the discovery set and 24 patients in the validation set . Adverse events which were defined as death , heart transplant , and rehospitalization for HF were observed in 23 patients ( 8% ) . After adjusting for age , LVEF , and the LV end-diastolic diameter z score , CE-16 : 1 , PE36 : 4p , PE40 : 6p , and PE40 : 6p ( 22 : 6 ) were significantly associated with the occurrence of adverse events in the discovery set . The results were also consistent in the validation set , and the hazard ratios ( HRs ) were 638 ( 95% CI 042-683 ; p = 041 ) , 549 ( 95% CI 340-886 ; p = 014 ) , 271 ( 95% CI 109-672 ; p = 005 ) , and 299 ( 95% CI 121-741 ; p = 009 ) , respectively . We developed a score for these four lipid metabolites . When the score reached 4 , adverse events were more likely to be observed in both sets . Serum lipid metabolites can be used to predict the efficacy of IVIG in children with DCM .
BACKGROUND : - Granulomatous inflammation is a hallmark of several chronic inflammatory diseases , characterized by the formation of immune granulomas . The vitamin D receptor ( VDR ) and its ligands , such as paricalcitol , have demonstrated immunomodulatory effects on various immune cell subpopulations , including macrophages , dendritic cells , and T-cells . However , the precise role of VDR activation in granuloma formation and the associated immune regulatory pathways , including the PD-1/PD-L1 axis , remains poorly understood . This study aimed to evaluate the effects of paricalcitol , a selective VDR agonist , on granuloma formation and immune cell composition in an experimental model of superoxide dismutase A ( SoDA ) -induced inflammation , with a focus on antigen-presenting cells ( including CD68 + and CD1a + cells ) , T- and B-cell populations , and PD-L1 expression . MATERIALS AND METHODS : - The study involved 90 male Wistar rats divided into control and experimental groups . Experimental animals received paricalcitol intraperitoneally at different time points relative to sensitization with SoDA and complete Freund ' s adjuvant . Granulomatous infiltrates were evaluated histologically , and the cellular composition was assessed via immunohistochemistry using markers such as CD68 , CD3 , CD1a , CD20 , and PD-L Statistical analysis included quantitative morphometry and group comparisons . RESULTS : - Paricalcitol administration significantly influenced granuloma development , with groups receiving treatment before ( E1 ) or at the time of sensitization ( E2 ) showing a reduction in immature granulomas and an increase in mature granulomas compared to the control groups . Enhanced macrophage differentiation , characterized by increased multinucleated giant cells and epithelioid cells , was observed . Additionally , there was a significant increase in PD-L1 expression in granulomatous infiltrates of treated groups , particularly in peripherally located immune cells . These effects were accompanied by a modulation of T-cell responses , including a reduction in CD3 + T-cell population . CONCLUSION : - The findings suggest that paricalcitol promotes granuloma stabilization and maturation by modulating VDR-mediated immune pathways , including maturation and transformation of macrophages into epithelioid and giant multinucleated cells , increase in number of CD1a + cells , and PD-1/PD-L1 axis regulation . The ability of paricalcitol to enhance PD-L1 expression through the VDR-mediated pathways provides additional evidence for its role in preventing excessive immune responses and highlights the therapeutic potential of VDR agonists in managing granulomatous inflammation .
Overweight and obesity can alter the composition of human milk , including the fatty acid ( FA ) profile into more proinflammatory state . It is uncertain whether this is due to poor diet quality or the negative effects of obesity on FA metabolism . We examined the associations between dietary , serum , and human milk FA in mothers with normal and excessive body weight and investigated whether adiposity moderates the observed associations . A case-control study was conducted among 40 mothers ( 20 healthy weight ( HW ) , 20 overweight/obese ( OW/OB ) 5 +/- 2 weeks postpartum , matched by lactation duration and age . Dietary intake was analyzed based on 3-day food records , and adiposity was assessed by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry ( DXA ) , serum and human milk FA analyzed by gas chromatography ( GC ) . Overweight/obese mothers had higher dietary and serum trans FA but lower serum arachidonic acid ( AA ) and human milk docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) compared to normal-weight mothers . Mediation analysis indicated that serum partially mediated the effect of dietary linoleic acid ( LA ) , polyunsaturated fatty acid ( PUFA ) n-3 , and alpha-linolenic acid ( ALA ) on human milk FA . Adiposity were found to negatively impact the dietary-to-human milk FA association but positively impact serum-to-human milk association . The obesity-related differences in human milk FA profile were not due to dietary differences . Our results suggest human milk PUFA levels may be influenced more by long-term diet than short-term intake , indicating a need for specific dietary guidelines for mothers with higher adiposity to minimze proinflammatory alterations in human milk composition .
Novel of hematopoietic system and hepatic system under the usage of antioxidant plants such as chia seeds and matcha green tea were critical sites in this study which promoted by crucial health of New-Zealand white ( NZW ) rabbits as a model for mammalia and eukaryotic cell . Our study investigated the effect of chia seeds and matcha green tea on the liver . Eighteen NZW rabbits average weighed of 08gm with an average age of 30 days were divided into three groups , control , chia seeds powder group 150gm/L , and matcha green tea group 075 gm/L . The weekly treatments were weighted from weaning age to marketing age about nine weeks were the experimental period . At the end of this experiment , we studied growth performance , metabolism , carcass characteristics , and some gene expression related to the growth factor family , hepatic metabolism , lipid profile , iron storage , and one of the endoplasmic reticulum stress receptors of NZW rabbits . The data in this study reported that final body weight increased significantly ( P < 05 ) in the matcha group compared to the control , carcass trait and dressing parts were increased significantly in comparison to control . However , Red blood cell count , hemoglobin concentration , and ferritin increased in matcha groups in comparison to control while there is no difference significant between chia and control . Cortisol and insulin in plasma were decreased significantly in chia and matcha compared to control . IRP1 , APOA2 , IGF1 , A1BG , and SLC27A5 were up-regulated in matcha tea groups compared to control while , SLC27A5 was down-regulated in chia groups and Leptin and GRP78 were showed down-regulated in chia and matcha groups . This study offers new insights into the role of chia seeds and matcha tea in physiological and biological processes in the liver and achieved a vital and healthy biological body and reduces the incidence of cancer .
Metabolites , lipids , and glycans are fundamental but interconnected classes of biomolecules that form the basis of the metabolic network . These molecules are dynamically channeled through multiple pathways that govern cellular physiology and pathology . Here , we present a framework for the simultaneous spatial analysis of the metabolome , lipidome , and glycome from a single tissue section using mass spectrometry imaging . This workflow integrates a computational platform , the Spatial Augmented Multiomics Interface ( Sami ) , which enables multiomics integration , high-dimensional clustering , spatial anatomical mapping of matched molecular features , and metabolic pathway enrichment . To demonstrate the utility of this approach , we applied Sami to evaluate metabolic diversity across distinct brain regions and to compare wild-type and Ps19 Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) mouse models . Our findings reveal region-specific metabolic demands in the normal brain and highlight metabolic dysregulation in the Ps19 model , providing insights into the biochemical alterations associated with neurodegeneration .
Atorvastatin Calcium ( AC ) is the first line lipid-lowering drug in clinical . Nowadays , the combination of AC and BBR is often used to treat hyperlipidemia in clinical . In order to determine the mechanism , we investigate the regulatory of atorvastatin combined with berberine on PI3K/Akt/FoxO1 signaling pathway in rats with hyperlipidemia . The hyperlipidemia rat model was constructed . Meanwhile , lipid-lowering and liver protective effects were determined by oil red O and H&E method . The expression of PI3K , Akt and FoxO1 was examined by IHC , WB and RT-pCR . The level of CK and LDH in serum was examined by ELISA . The results showed that the expression of PI3K , AKT increased and FoxO1 decreased in MC group compared with NC group ( P < 01 ) . The expression of PI3K , AKT decreased and FoxO1 increased compared with MC group ( P < 05 ) . The expression of FoxO1 in combination group is lower than AC group . The levels of CK and LDH in AC group increased compared with NC group ( P < 01 ) , but decreased significantly in AC + BBR group compared with AC group ( P < 01 ) . The combination of AC and BBR could regulate the lipid level by mediating PI3K/Akt/FoxO1 , which providing a new references for the treatment of hyperlipidemia . FAU - Yu , Chao
Semaglutide is a lipopeptide with important applications in the treatment of diabetes , obesity , and other conditions . This class of drug ( glucagon-like peptide-1 agonists and other lipidated peptides ) may be susceptible to aggregation due to the tendency of lipopeptides to self-assemble into various nanostructures . Here , we show using cryogenic-TEM , small-angle X-ray scattering , and molecular dynamics simulations that semaglutide in aqueous solution undergoes slow aggregation into spherical micelles in water at sufficiently high concentration . A small population of needle-shaped fibril aggregates is also observed . At a lower concentration , dimer and trimer structures are formed . The micelles , once formed , are stable toward further aging . The aggregation influences the effect of semaglutide on the permeability of an epithelial gut model membrane of Caco-2 cells . These findings are expected to be important in understanding the long-term stability of semaglutide solutions and the potential effects of aggregation on therapeutic efficacy . FAU - Hamley , Ian W
OBJECTIVE : To explore the role and related functions of vaginal microbiota in early pregnancy loss . METHODS : This study was a case-control study with a comparison group ( reference group ) . We recruited 178 women , including 73 who had experienced at least one early clinical pregnancy loss and 105 patients with one live birth and no history of pregnancy loss . Data on demographics , disease history , menstrual and reproductive history was collected . The case group patients were sampled immediately upon presenting with pregnancy loss at their first visit . The reference group patients underwent samples when they chose to participate voluntarily . All vaginal discharge was performed DNA Preparation and Metagenomics Sequencing . DNA extraction was performed using the phenol/trichloromethane method and the DNA fragments were then size-selected to 300-700 bp using magnetic beads . The selected fragments were repaired and ligated with indexed adaptors . The captured DNA was amplified again by PCR and circularized to create a single-stranded circular ( ssCir ) library . The ssCir library was subsequently amplified through rolling circle amplification ( RCA ) to produce DNA nanoballs ( DNBs ) . The DNBs were then loaded onto a flow cell and sequenced using the DNBSEQ Platform . Nonparametric tests , including Kruskal-Wallis and Wilcoxon tests , were employed . Relative abundance between groups was compared , and differential species selection was performed using the LEfSe software with linear discriminant analysis . RESULTS : PCoA analysis based on Bray-Curtis distances at the species level revealed a difference between the groups ( p = 011 ) . At the genus level , alpha-diversity , assessed using the Shannon , Simpson , and Inverse Simpson indices , indicated higher bacterial richness and diversity in the control group ( Shannon : mean 554 vs . 383 , p = 0044 ; Simpson : mean 254 vs . 179 , p = 0043 ; Inverse Simpson : mean 636 vs . 414 , p = 0043 ) ; At the genus level , 107 microbial genera were identified , 18 of which displayed statistically significant differences . At the species level , 23 microbial species showed significant differences between the two groups . We analyzed the differences in the most abundant phyla , genera , and species , with a particular focus on the top 20 most abundant genera and species . Firmicutes and Proteobacteria were significantly more prevalent among patients with pregnancy loss ( PL ) . Among the top 20 most abundant genera , Streptococcus and Porphyromonas were significantly more abundant in patients with PL , whereas Bifidobacterium was significantly more prevalent in the reference group . Among the 20 most abundant species , Lactobacillus crispatus was significantly more prevalent in patients with PL , whereas common in the control group . Principal Coordinates Analysis ( PCoA ) of Bray-Curtis distances , highlight their distinct clustering patterns , suggesting a notable difference between the metabolic pathways of the two groups . Key pathways with a negative correlation to PL include those related to amino acid biosynthesis , lipid metabolism , and nucleotide biosynthesis . CONCLUSION : Our study highlights the association between vaginal microbiota dysbiosis and EPL , identifying specific microbial taxa that may contribute to pregnancy loss . These findings underscore the importance of the vaginal microbiome in reproductive health and open up new avenues for research into microbiome-based diagnostics and therapies . By integrating microbial , immune , and environmental data , future research has the potential to uncover the mechanisms underlying EPL and develop targeted interventions to improve pregnancy outcomes . FAU - Wang , Lijie
Thin , skin-conformal soft electronics are ideal for seamless integration with the skin , enabling high-fidelity health monitoring and advanced human-machine interactions . However , achieving imperceptible and seamless adhesion with traditional materials and design approaches remains challenging as it is difficult to simultaneously meet the requirements of gas permeability , high conductivity , and conformability . In this work , we present a straightforward and efficient design for ultrathin , substrate-free , highly gas-permeable , and conductive liquid metal electrodes . These electrodes can be directly laminated onto human skin using water mist dissolution , facilitated by electrospun nanomeshes made from a poly ( vinyl alcohol ) and sodium dodecyl sulfate substrate . The electrodes have a thickness of 3 mum , a conductivity of 2 x 10 S m ( -1 ) , and a gas permeability of 8 +/- 7 g m ( -2 ) day ( -1 ) . A 24 h skin patch test demonstrated that the epidermal electrodes did not cause any skin irritation . Additionally , the electrodes exhibit excellent customizable patterning capabilities and recyclability . The electrodes successfully measure high-fidelity electrophysiological signals wirelessly , even during various daily activities such as sleep , work on the computer , and walking . FAU - Yan , Wenqing
Objective : To analyze the clinical characteristics of adult patients with phytosterolemia presenting with thrombocytopenia as the initial manifestation . Methods : A retrospective analysis was conducted on eight adult patients with phytosterolemia who visited Union Hospital , Tongji Medical College , Huazhong University of Science and Technology , from December 2020 to December Results : 1 in circle The participants consisted of 2 ( 25% ) male and 6 ( 75% ) female patients , with a median age at diagnosis of 55 years ( range : 29-66 years ) . The median duration from the discovery of thrombocytopenia to diagnosis was 10 years ( range : 2-50 years ) . 2 in circle Compared with the normal control group ( 30 healthy adult volunteers ) and the immune thrombocytopenia ( ITP ) control group ( 20 patients with ITP ) , patients with phytosterolemia exhibited significantly higher mean platelet volume and large platelet ratio . Peripheral blood smears revealed that the mean platelet diameter and the proportion of large platelets ( diameter> 4 mum ) were significantly higher in patients with phytosterolemia than those in the normal and ITP control groups ( P<01 ) . 3 in circle After a low-plant-sterol diet and ezetimibe treatment , five patients demonstrated decreased serum sitosterol and campesterol levels , increased hemoglobin concentration and platelet counts , and reduced platelet volume . Conclusion : Adult-onset phytosterolemia presenting with thrombocytopenia as the initial manifestation is prone to misdiagnosis . The presence of hemolytic anemia , splenomegaly , increased large platelets and schistocytes on peripheral blood smears , and xanthomas are crucial diagnostic indicators . Restricting dietary plant sterol intake and using ezetimibe to inhibit sterol absorption effectively lowers serum plant sterol levels and improves hematological abnormalities . FAU - Hu , Y J
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the ameliorative effect of glutathione-rich yeast extract ( GYE ) on ferroptosis of HepG2 cells induced by ethanol ( EtOH ) and to further explore the potential molecular mechanism based on regulating nuclear factorer-related actor 2 ( Nrf2 ) . METHODS : HepG2 cells were induced with 100 mmol/L EtOH and intervened by 1 and 5 mmol/L GYE . The levels of Fe~ ( 2+ ) , lipid peroxides in the cells was detected by fluorescent probe . The occurrence of ferroptosis was assessed by Hoechst/PI staining . The protein expression of glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , recombinant solute carrier family 7 , member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) , prostaglandin-endoperoxidesynthase 2 ( ptgs2 ) and acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family 4 ( ACSL4 ) were detected by Western blot . Nuclear translocation of Nrf2 and GPX4 expression and were detected by immunofluorescence staining . RESULTS : Compared with the Control group , the EtOH group showed a significant increase in Fe~ ( 2+ ) ( P&lt ; 05 ) , intracellular lipid peroxides and ferroptosis in HepG2 cells ( P&lt ; 05 ) . In addition , EtOH treatment decreased the protein expression of GPX4 and SLC7A11 and increased the protein expression of ACSL4 and ptgs2 ( P&lt ; 05 ) . GYE treatment significantly mitigated EtOH-induced Fe~ ( 2+ ) accumulation and overproduction of lipid peroxides ( P&lt ; 05 ) . Also , GYE treatment significantly inhibited EtOH-induced ferroptosis of HepG2 cells ( P&lt ; 05 ) , and the inhibition effect was better in the high-dose GYE group . GYE treatment significantly promoted nuclear translocation of Nrf2 ( P&lt ; 05 ) . CONCLUSION : GYE can effectively inhibit EtOH-induced ferroptosis in HepG2 cells , and its molecular mechanism may be related to the up-regulating Nrf FAU - Dong , Yajing
OBJECTIVE : To analyze the trends in energy and macronutrients intake among adult residents in China . METHODS : Data were from the " China Nutrition and Health Survey/Surveillance " conducted in 1982 , 1992 , 2002 , 2010-2012 , and The participants were adult residents aged 18-44 years . RESULTS : From 1982 to 2015 , the dietary energy intake among Chinese adult residents aged 18-44 decreased from 41 kcal/d to 79 kcal/d . The percentage of energy intake from protein increased from 92% to 45% , the percentage of energy intake from fat increased from 76% to 87% , the percentage of energy intake from carbohydrate decreased from 88% to 61% . CONCLUSION : From 1982 to 2015 , dietary energy intake was decreasing and sufficient among Chinese adult residents aged 18-44 , percentage of energy intake from carbohydrate was decreasing , while percentage of energy intake from fat was increasing and higher than the requirements . FAU - Zhang , Jiguo
A combination of glucose and lipid metabolism , insulin resistance ( IR ) is correlated with the outcome of neoadjuvant treatment ( NAT ) for breast cancer . The purpose of this research sought to explore how IR affects breast cancer patients ' reactions after NAT . We gathered 132 individuals with breast cancer who had surgery after NAT . Continuous values were analyzed using the Wilcoxon ( Mann-Whitney ) test and independent samples t test ; pathological complete response ( PCR ) -related independent influencing factors were investigated using the binary logistic regression model ; and the predictive value of each index on the effectiveness of NAT was assessed using subject work characteristics ( receiver operating characteristic ) curves . Compared with the non-PCR group , the PCR group ' s IR levels were lower . Baseline IR levels and NAT effectiveness did not significantly correlate , according to multifactorial logistic analysis ( P > . 05 ) . Nevertheless , there was a negative correlation ( P < . 05 ) between PCR and total cholesterol ( TC ) /high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) and MetS-IR levels following NAT . According to the receiver operating characteristic curve prediction model , TC/HDL had a greater predictive value than MetS-IR . Dynamic IR indicators ( DeltaTC/HDL and DeltaMetS-IR ) demonstrate predictive value for NAT response in breast cancer , mechanistically linked to lipid metabolism reprogramming and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment . Future multicenter studies should validate optimal thresholds and investigate combined metabolic-immune targeted therapeutic strategies .
The emergence of immune checkpoint inhibitors ( ICIs ) has significantly revolutionized the approach to treating advanced cancers . Despite their remarkable efficacy , not all patients exhibit favorable responses to ICI therapy . Hence , more biomarkers for therapeutic prediction need to be discovered . In this study , we utilized public cohorts to investigate the predictive significance and immunological associations of apolipoprotein L6 ( APOL6 ) in cancers . The expression of APOL6 was found to be enhanced in tumors of patients who exhibited strong immunotherapeutic responses across various types of cancer . Furthermore , APOL6 showed immune correlations in pan-cancer and was confirmed by the tissue microarray cohort and in vitro experiments . Overall , this study highlights that APOL6 serves as a beneficial biomarker for immune checkpoint inhibitors in patients with cancer . Additional research involving larger numbers of patients and the underlying mechanism is necessary to determine its effectiveness as a biomarker for predicting the benefits of ICIs .
Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by cognitive decline and progressive functional impairment . The Apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) gene , particularly its epsilon2 , epsilon3 , and epsilon4 alleles , plays a crucial role in lipid metabolism , and has been implicated in AD pathogenesis . Although the APOE epsilon4 status is associated with an increased risk of AD , its impact varies across populations . This study investigated the prevalence of and association between APOE alleles and AD risk in a Ugandan cohort . This case-control study was conducted in Uganda , and included 87 participants ( 45 patients with AD and 42 healthy controls ) . Cognitive assessment was performed using the Montreal Cognitive Assessment ( MoCA ) and clinical diagnoses were based on the ICD-11 and DSM-5 criteria . Venous blood was collected for APOE genotyping by polymerase chain reaction . Statistical analyses , including logistic regression and generalized additive models ( GAMs ) , were used to assess the association between APOE alleles and AD risk after adjusting for age , education , and sex . This study included 45 patients with AD and 42 healthy controls . The AD group was significantly older than controls ( 6 vs 0 years ; P = . 0006 ) . The epsilon4 allele was common in both the AD ( 2% ) and control groups ( 0% ) , which was higher than the 1000 Genomes African ancestry data . No significant association was found between the APOE genotype or allele dosage and AD risk after adjusting for age , sex , and education . However , the probability of AD increases with age , particularly among epsilon4 carriers with lower educational levels . While APOE epsilon4 status was associated with a higher predicted probability of AD in older adults , no statistically significant relationship was observed in the Ugandan cohort . These findings support the need for larger population-specific studies to explore APOE ' s role of APOE in AD risk across sub-Saharan Africa .
This study aimed to investigate the causal relationship between lipidomes and chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) and identify and quantify the role of immune cells as a potential mediator . Using summary-level data from a genome-wide association study , a 2-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis of genetically predicted lipidomes ( 7174 cases ) and CKD ( 406 , 745 cases ) was performed . Furthermore , we used 2-step MR to quantitate the proportion of the effect of immune cells traits-mediated lipidomes on CKD . The MR analysis revealed a causal relationship between lipidomes and CKD , with different lipidomes either increasing or decreasing the risk of CKD . Immune cells may serve as intermediaries in the pathway from lipidomes to CKD . Our study indicates that CD33 on basophils accounts for 23% of the reduced risk associated with triacylglycerol ( 53 : 3 ) levels in CKD . In conclusion , our study has identified a causal relationship between lipidomes and CKD , as well as the mediating role of CD33 on basophils . However , other risk factors like potential mediators require further investigation . In clinical practice , particular attention should be paid to lipidomic changes , especially triacylglycerol , in patients with CKD .
Nutritional and dietary interventions are important in the prevention of stroke , but many of the factors influencing stroke remain undefined . Although omega-3/6 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) have been suggested to be associated with cerebrovascular diseases , studies on this topic are lacking . This study extracted and screened independent single nucleotide polymorphisms of omega-3/6 PUFAs and 3 types of cerebrovascular diseases data from the IEU Open GWAS database . A two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) was used to examine the association between omega-3/6 PUFAs with subarachnoid hemorrhage ( SAH ) , intracerebral hemorrhage ( ICH ) , and ischemic stroke ( IS ) . The primary analysis method was the inverse variance weighting method , supplemented by the weighted median and MR-Egger methods . Sensitivity and multiplicity were assessed using Cochran Q test , MR-PRESSO , MR-Egger regression , and leave-one-out analysis . This study was conducted in full compliance with the STROBE guidelines throughout . The inverse variance weighting analysis revealed a negative correlation between omega-3 PUFAs and SAH ( P = . 0078 ) . However , there was no correlation between omega-3 PUFAs and ICH ( P = . 3930 ) and IS ( P = . 2922 ) . Additionally , there was no association between omega-6 PUFAs and SAH ( P = . 1399 ) , ICH ( P = . 1399 , 0660 ) , and IS ( P = . 8571 ) using all 3 analytical methods . No heterogeneity or horizontal pleiotropy was observed . The study suggested that omega-3 PUFAs had a significant protective role in SAH . However , omega-3/6 PUFAs were not found to be associated with other types of cerebrovascular diseases .
This study aimed to evaluate the tripartite linkage nursing model ' s effectiveness in prediabetic patients at risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus , assessing its impact on glycemic control , metabolic outcomes , diabetes prevention , and treatment adherence . In this retrospective cohort study , 400 patients ( 2020-2022 ) were allocated via medical record review to control ( standard care ) and experimental groups ( tripartite model integrating hospital-community-home management ) . Clinical parameters ( fasting plasma glucose , 2-hour postprandial glucose , glycated hemoglobin , body mass index , lipid profiles , blood pressure ) were monitored at baseline and 6-month intervals over 24 months , with diabetes incidence and adherence rates concurrently evaluated . The experimental group demonstrated superior outcomes : fasting plasma glucose ( 8 +/- 4 vs 3 +/- 5 mmol/L , P < . 01 ) , 2-hour postprandial glucose ( 2 +/- 6 vs 1 +/- 7 mmol/L , P < . 01 ) , and glycated hemoglobin ( 9 +/- 3% vs 4 +/- 4% , P < . 01 ) showed significant improvements versus controls . Metabolic benefits included reduced body mass index ( 1 +/- 1 vs 3 +/- 4 kg/m ) , optimized lipids ( low-density lipoprotein cholesterol : 4 +/- 3 vs 9 +/- 4 ; triglycerides : 3 +/- 2 vs 7 +/- 3 mmol/L ) , and blood pressure control ( 124 +/- 8/78 +/- 5 vs 131 +/- 10/83 +/- 6 mm Hg , P < . 05 ) . Notably , diabetes incidence decreased by 50% ( 5% vs 0% , P = . 008 ) with higher adherence rates ( 4% vs 6% , P < . 001 ) , confirming dual efficacy in biological and behavioral outcomes . The tripartite model effectively reduces glycemic levels , improves metabolic indicators , lowers diabetes incidence , and enhances compliance , demonstrating significant clinical value for early diabetes prevention and management .
AIM : The relationship between uric acid to high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) cholesterol ratio ( UHR ) and female infertility remains unclear . The aim of our study was to explore the correlation between UHR and fertility in US adults . METHODS : Data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey from 2013 to 2018 was analyzed in this study . UHR was considered the independent variable , and female infertility was the dependent variable . Multivariable logistic regression and smooth curve fitting were conducted to evaluate the correlation between UHR and infertility . Subgroup and sensitivity analyses were utilized to assess the stability of the findings . RESULTS : UHR in transform and female infertility proved to have a positive relationship in logistic regression models , and this relationship remained significant after adjusting for all possible confounding factors ( odds ratio [OR] = 86 , 95% confidence interval : 28-69 , p = 001 ) . When UHR was split into four quartile groups , individuals in Tertiles 2 , 3 , and 4 separately had a 84 , 86 , and 02 times greater incidence of female infertility than those in Tertile A positive linear relationship between UHR and female infertility incidence was demonstrated using smooth curve fitting . The results of the subgroup analysis revealed consistent correlations and no difference in the UHR index and infertility subgroups ( p for interaction tests >05 ) . CONCLUSION : This national study identified the association between a higher prevalence of female infertility and an elevated UHR . The findings suggested that UHR levels could be useful in predicting the incidence of infertility . The management of UHR should be given more consideration .
Long-term reliability of microelectrodes implanted in the cortex is hindered due to the foreign body response that occurs at the electrode-tissue interface . Following implantation , there is disruption of the blood-brain-barrier and vasculature , resulting in activation of immune cells and release of erythrocytes . As a result of hemolysis , erythrocytes degrade to heme and then to free iron . Excess free iron can participate in the Fenton Reaction , producing reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Iron-mediated ROS production can contribute to oxidation of lipids , proteins , and DNA , facilitating a hostile environment of oxidative stress leading to oxidative cellular damage , cytotoxicity , and cell death . The objective of this study was to show the iron accumulation and the downstream effects of oxidative stress at the injury site . A 16-channel microelectrode array ( MEA ) was implanted in the rat somatosensory cortex . Our results indicated significant elevation of NOX complex subunits across timepoints , suggesting sustained oxidative stress . In a separate group of animals , we administered an iron chelator , deferoxamine mesylate ( DFX ) , to evaluate the effects of chelation on iron accumulation , oxidative stress and damage , and neuronal survival . Results indicate that animals with iron chelation showed reduced ferric iron and markers of oxidative stress and damage corresponding with increased expression of neuronal cell bodies and electrophysiological functional performance . In summary , the study reveals the role of iron in mediating oxidative stress and the effects of modulating iron levels using iron chelation at the electrode-tissue interface . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : Iron accumulation has been observed in central nervous system injuries and in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer ' s and Parkinson ' s disease . While the role of iron is studied in various neurodegenerative diseases and traumatic brain injury , iron accumulation and its effect on oxidative stress is not known for intracortical implants where there is a persistent injury due to the presence of a foreign device in the brain tissue . The study seeks to understand the effects of iron accumulation on oxidative stress and damage at the electrode-tissue interface in intracortical implants by using iron chelation as a method of modulating iron levels at the interface .
The responses of N/TERT-1 and N/TERT-2G keratinocyte cell lines to oxidative stress and immune challenges were investigated to assess their suitability for dermatological testing . The cell lines were exposed to various stimuli , including PAMPs , DAMPs , HO , and menadione , to assess cytokine production , oxidative stress markers , cell viability , apoptosis , and membrane integrity . IL-1alpha , IL-6 , IL-8 , TNF-alpha , and TGF-beta levels significantly increased in N/TERT-1 cells following exposure to LPS , while N/TERT-2G cells remained unaffected . Both cell lines showed increased production of IL-1alpha , IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , IL-6 , and IL-8 in response to dsDNA and LMW and HMW Poly I : C , although TGF-beta significantly decreased only in N/TERT-1 cells . In response to HO , a dose-dependent increase in cytokine levels was observed in N/TERT-2G , whereas N/TERT-1 did not exhibit a clear dose-dependent response . Markers of oxidative stress , including SOD and GSH , displayed similar patterns in both cell lines , with N/TERT-2G showing slightly higher sensitivity . Lipid peroxidation and mitochondrial membrane potential fluctuations were more pronounced in N/TERT-2G , suggesting greater oxidative stress sensitivity . The baseline GSH levels were higher in N/TERT-1 cells , which may contribute towards the enhanced resilience to oxidative stress . Despite decreased viability in MTT assays following HO exposure , the lack of significant changes in cleaved Caspase-3 levels indicated that apoptosis was not the primary mechanism of cell death . These findings highlight the distinct characteristics of N/TERT-1 and N/TERT-2G cells , with N/TERT-1 showing higher baseline resilience to oxidative stress and N/TERT-2G displaying greater sensitivity , particularly to HO . The study underscores the importance of selecting the appropriate cell line for specific research applications in skin biology and disease modelling , considering the differences in their responses to oxidative and immune challenges .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Perturbation of cardiolipin ( CL ) metabolism is associated with lipid nephrotoxicity . Recent findings provide new insights into the roles of CL-modulating proteins as critical determinants of podocyte function in chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) . We previously demonstrated that Sirtuin 6 ( Sirt6 ) is a compelling target inhibiting Angiotensin II ( Ang II ) -induced lipid dysregulation in podocytes . However , whether Sirt6 regulates podocyte CL metabolism is unknown . METHODS : Renal biopsy specimens of patients with hypertensive nephropathy ( HN ) were used in this study . Podocyte Sirt6-specific knockout mice were generated using the Cre-loxP system . The effect of Sirt6 on mitochondrial CL metabolism , especially the peroxidation and hydrolysis of CL , was investigated in Ang II-infusion mice and Ang II-induced cultured podocytes . RESULTS : Sirt6 and outer mitochondrial membrane protein phospholipase D family member 6 ( PLD6 ) were decreased in the glomeruli of patients with HN . Ang II downregulated Sirt6 and PLD6 expression in podocytes in vitro and in vivo . Podocyte-specific deletion of Sirt6 exacerbated lipid droplets formation , CL accumulation and peroxidation , aggravated Ang II-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and cell apoptosis . Mechanically , Sirt6 maintained podocyte CL homeostasis , at least in part through PLD6 signaling-mediated CL metabolism . In addition , cardiolipin antioxidant Szeto-Schiller Peptide 31 ( SS-31 ) treatment inhibited Ang II-induced lipid accumulation and CL peroxidation in podocytes . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings shed light on Sirt6 ' s regulatory mechanisms on podocyte CL metabolism and suggest exploiting the Sirt6-PLD6 axis as a potential therapeutic target for protecting against lipid nephrotoxicity .
Current treatments for inflammatory bowel disease often fail due to systemic side effects , but bovine milk-derived extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) show promise for targeted delivery to inflamed gut tissue via the leaky gut effect . This study assessed the stability of EVs as drug carriers in simulated gastrointestinal ( GI ) fluids and their efficacy in a colitis mouse model . EVs were characterised after incubation in PBS at various pH levels , and their lipid bilayer stability in biorelevant GI fluids was evaluated using the polar probe laurdan . Two small molecules , acridine orange ( lipophilic ) and riboflavin ( hydrophilic ) , were loaded into EVs to test their release under GI conditions , while unloaded EVs were investigated for therapeutic effect via oral gavage or rectal enema in a colitis mouse model . Although no significant changes in EVs ' physical properties were observed at different pH levels , lipid bilayer damage was evident in acidic ( p </= 05 ) and enzyme-rich environments ( p </= 01 ) . Acridine orange release was significant ( p </= 05 ) , butriboflavin remained encapsulated , and no therapeutic effect was observed with unloaded EVs in vivo . These results suggest that physical characterisation alone does not reflect EV stability , that bovine milk EVs have limited potential for oral drug delivery and are better suited for hydrophilic drugs .
This study applied the Anaerobic Digestion Model No . 1 ( ADM1 ) to fruit and vegetable waste ( FVW ) anaerobic digestion , adjusting substrate-dependent parameters and system configuration in AQUASIM Key model parameters were determined , including fractions of carbohydrates , lipids , proteins , and inert particles . Sensitivity analysis identified the decay rate of biomass ( k ( dec ) ) , the disintegration rate constant ( k ( dis ) ) , the hydrolysis rate constant for carbohydrates ( k ( hyd , ch ) ) , the half-saturation constant for acetate ( k ( s , ac ) ) , maximum uptake rates for acetate ( k ( m , ac ) ) , long-chain fatty acids ( k ( m , fa ) ) , and sugars ( k ( m , su ) ) as the most influential parameters on biogas production . These were estimated using experimental data to refine the model , achieving an R of 99 and root mean square error of Inhibition indices confirmed acetate ' s influence , and free ammonia was observed to interfere with acetate absorption , affecting biogas production . The adjusted ADM1 effectively represented biogas and methane production , demonstrating its applicability to FVW anaerobic digestion systems . The results emphasize the need to adjust ADM1 for different substrates and demonstrate its potential as a valuable tool for identifying potential system failures .
How lipids are sorted between intracellular compartments and what mechanisms support inter-organellar lipid transport define questions that have enjoyed long-standing interest in the cell biology community . Despite tantalizing evidence to the effect that lipids can move between organelles independently of standard modes of vesicular membrane trafficking through the secretory pathway , biochemical dissection of these non-vesicular pathways was initially fraught with experimental challenges . Many of the obstacles have now been overcome and , following initial breakthroughs , the last two decades have witnessed a renaissance in the field of lipid trafficking . Indeed , lipid trafficking and mobilization are now significant components of any discussion regarding secretory vesicle trafficking , organelle biogenesis , agonist-stimulated lipid signaling , and inter-compartmental communication pathways that involve every organelle in the eukaryotic cell . In accord with the theme of this special issue , we focus on the topic of soluble lipid transfer proteins that interface with the metabolism of phosphatidylinositol ( PtdIns ) and its phosphorylated derivatives - the phosphoinositides . Although phosphoinositides are quantitatively minor lipids in cells , these molecules represent the chemical codes for a major pathway of intracellular signaling in all eukaryotic cells . It is now clear that soluble PtdIns transfer proteins ( PITPs ) are physiologically critical regulators of specific pathways of phosphoinositide - particularly PtdIns-4-phosphate - signaling . The ' where ' PITPs determine the biological outcomes of phosphoinositide signaling , and the ' how ' by which PITPs do so , represent increasingly active areas of research in contemporary cell biology . It is these issues we explore from a historical perspective with a focus on the Sec14-like PITPs .
A journey that started with the discovery of phospholipase C catalysed inositol-lipid hydrolysis as a receptor-controlled signalling event , culminated in defining molecular properties and roles of phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C ( PLC ) families . Currently , there are six classical ( 13 isoforms ) and one atypical ( 3 isoforms ) family , expressed in a wide range of mammalian cells where they perform key functions in intracellular signal transduction . We here highlight recent advances in the PLC field , mostly resulting from studies of the PLCgamma family members , PLCgamma1 and PLCgamma These new discoveries include elucidation of their structural and functional properties as well as their roles in physiology and disease development . We also illustrate the involvement of classical PLC families in control of cellular processes mediated not only by the PtdIns ( 4 , 5 ) P-derived second messengers , resulting from the PLC hydrolysis , but also by second messenger-independent consequences of PtdIns ( 4 , 5 ) P hydrolysis . Presented examples are focused on regulation of ion channels by PtdIns ( 4 , 5 ) P .
Exenatide , a first-in-class GLP-1 receptor agonist , is used to control glycaemic levels in type 2 diabetes . There are two approved injectable formulations : one solution for immediate action and one dispersion for prolonged action . Oral exenatide has low bioavailability due to poor gastrointestinal stability and absorption . To address these obstacles , we designed Solid Lipid Nanoparticles ( SLN ) including DOTAP in the formulation to yield high exenatide encapsulation by hydrophobic ion pairing and DSPE-PEG ( 2kDa ) to convey colloidal stability and mucus diffusivity . The microfluidic production of SLN yielded 7 % exenatide encapsulation and 2 % loading efficiency . SLN exhibited solid cored-spherical morphology with sizes of about 120 nm and zeta potential of + 53 mV . The SLN surface charge was modulated by DSPE-PEG ( 2kDa ) coating ; 10 and 30 w/w% DSPE-PEG ( 2kDa ) /lipid ratios yielded slightly positive and neutral zeta potentials , respectively . All SLN formulations provided exenatide protection from proteolytic enzymes . The non-PEGylated SLN resulted in a twofold increase of exenatide delivery across Caco-2 cell monolayers compared to the peptide solution . The 10 w/w% SLN PEGylation reduced the exenatide delivery compared to non-PEGylated SLN through Caco-2 cell monolayers . However , the exenatide delivery with 10 w/w% PEGylated SLN across mucus-producing Caco-2/HT29-MTX coculture layer was 2-fold higher compared to the unformulated peptide , and 5 higher than non-PEGylated SLN . The 30 w/w% SLN PEGylation did not improve the peptide transport neither through Caco-2 cell monolayers nor through Caco-2/HT29-MTX coculture layer .
Phthalates ( PAEs ) are one of the most commonly used plasticizers . Due to their good performance , they are widely used in daily production , such as food packaging , paints , adhesives , children ' s toys , lubricants and building materials . However , PAEs usually have weak interactions with polymers , which can easily cause environmental pollution in use . These plasticizers have been linked to various health conditions , including inflammatory disorders . They are less intensively studied in the occurrence of inflammation , especially inflammatory bowel disease ( IBD ) , and the necessity to evaluate their pathogenic molecular toxicity is particularly urgent . In this study , network toxicology and molecular docking methods were used to study the toxicological mechanism of IBD induced by four common plasticizers ( DBP , DEHP , DEP , DNOP ) . Potential related targets were predicted using the PharmMapper , SwissStargetPrediction , GeneCards , DisGeNET , OMIM and TTD databases , and 286 related targets were identified . Using Gene Ontology ( GO ) functional annotation and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes ( KEGG ) pathway enrichment , binding protein-Protein Interaction ( PPI ) networks and cytoHubba plug-ins , ten relevant signaling pathways ( PI3K-Akt signaling pathway , lipid and atherosclerosis , AGE-RAGE signaling pathway in diabetic complications , Proteoglycans in cancer , and so on . ) and ten hub genes were identified . Four plasticizers ( DBP , DEHP , DEP , DNOP ) and the top 10 selected Hub gene targets ( SRC , KRAS , PIK3CA , PIK3R1 , JAK2 , PTPN11 , PIK3CD , HRAS , PIK3CG , EGFR ) were analyzed by molecular docking . This study provides valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of plasticizer-induced IBD and highlights the practicality of network toxicology in assessing the toxicity of emerging environmental pollutants . It enhances our understanding of the health risks posed by plasticizers and offers new strategies for mitigating their impact on inflammatory diseases .
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE : Podophyllum hexandrum Royle , recored in the Pharmacopoeia of the People ' s Republic of China as Sinopodophyllum hexandrum ( Royle ) Ying ( SH ) , is a nationally protected Tibetan medicinal plant in China , which has been traditionally used to regulate menstruation , enhance blood circulation , and treat blood stasis and dystocia . However , its potential role and mechanisms in managing perimenopausal syndrome ( PMS ) remain unclear . AIM OF THE STUDY : This study evaluates the therapeutic potential of Sinopodophyllum hexandrum ( Royle ) Ying rhizomes ( SHR ) and fruits ( SHF ) in PMS and investigates their underlying molecular mechanisms . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The anti-PMS effects of SHR and SHF were examined in an ovariectomized ( OVX ) rat model by assessing uterine histopathology and hormone levels . Serum lipid profiles , including triglycerides ( TG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , as well as malondialdehyde ( MDA ) levels and superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) levels , were analyzed using biochemical assays . Astral-DIA proteomics identified differentially expressed proteins ( DEPs ) and key signaling pathways affected by SHF . Protein expression was evaluated via western blotting , immunohistochemistry , and RT-qPCR . Estrogenic activity was further assessed in vitro through MCF-7 cell viability and estrogen receptor ( ER ) expression analysis . RESULTS : SHR and SHF treatment significantly improved uterine morphology in OVX rats , restoring endometrial and epithelial thickness . High-dose of SHF ( SHF-H ) increased serum estradiol ( E2 ) by 02% , anti-Mullerian hormone ( AMH ) by 68% , and progesterone ( PROG ) by 96% while decreasing luteinizing hormone ( LH ) by 53% . High-dose SHR ( SHR-H ) treatment resulted in a 89% increase in E2 levels and a 88% decrease in LH levels . Additionally , SHR-H and SHF-H regulated the level of oxidative stress and serum lipid levels , showing a significant decline in MDA ( 32% , 52% ) , TG ( 71% , 30% ) , TC ( 34% , 77% ) , and LDL-C ( 09% , 96% ) . Proteomic analysis identified the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( PI3K ) /protein kinase B ( AKT ) /mammalian target of rapamycin ( mTOR ) pathway and apoptotic regulation as key mechanisms underlying SHF ' s effects . SHF reversed OVX-induced the suppression of p-PI3K/PI3K , p-AKT/AKT , and p-mTOR in the uterus . SHR and SHF also modulated apoptosis-related proteins , downregulating Bax and Cleaved caspase-3/9 while upregulating Bcl- Moreover , SHF significantly increased uterine ERalpha and ERbeta expression at both mRNA and protein levels . In vitro , SHR and SHF extracts promoted MCF-7 cell viability and upregulated ERalpha , ERbeta , and proliferating cell nuclear antigen ( PCNA ) , indicating estrogenic activity . CONCLUSIONS : SH alleviates PMS by inhibiting uterine apoptosis via PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway activation and enhancing estrogen receptor expression . It also regulates hormone levels , lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress , potentially slowing PMS progression . These findings highlight SH as a promising therapeutic agent for PMS and provide novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of Tibetan medicine .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) and hyperlipidemia belong to the metabolic disorder syndromes of metabolic syndrome . They share a common pathological basis and are often complicated . Complanatoside A ( CA ) , a flavonoid abundant in Astragali complanati semen , helps to prevent NAFLD and hyperlipidemia . However , the exact molecular mechanism is uncertain . Therefore , this study aims to explore the core mechanism . Network pharmacology was used to analyze the preventive mechanism of CA against NAFLD and hyperlipidemia . The efficacy of CA was proven in a high-fat diet-fed mouse model and a steatogenic hepatocyte model . Transcriptomic analysis , Western blot validation , and molecular docking methods were used to explore the common mechanism of CA in preventing NAFLD and hyperlipidemia . Network pharmacology revealed that the AMP-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) pathway is a common mechanism leading to NAFLD and hyperlipidemia . It is also a potential pathway by which CA exerts its protective effect , which was confirmed in transcriptomics in vivo . Both in vitro and in vivo experiments showed that CA could inhibit lipid synthesis and promote fatty acid oxidation by activating the AMPK , alleviating lipid accumulation , and lipotoxic liver injury . This was demonstrated by the use of an AMPK inhibitor in vitro . Furthermore , molecular docking results showed that CA could directly interact with AMPK to regulate downstream lipid-related proteins . In conclusion , the AMPK pathway is key in developing NAFLD and hyperlipidemia . CA plays a dual preventive role in NAFLD and hyperlipidemia by activating AMPK to regulate lipid metabolism .
Background This study aimed to investigate the effects of LDE-MTX on acute cerebral infarction . The study focuses on how LDE-MTX can influence the outcomes of ischemic stroke in a rat model , specifically examining its neuroprotective properties . Methods Radioactively labeled LDE uptake by brain tissue was determined after IV injection in rats with Endothelin-1 ( ET-1 ) -induced cortical ischemic stroke ( n = 11 ) and controls ( n = 18 ) . Two groups of 5 animals were treated with LDE-MTX ( 1 mg/kg , IV ) or LDE-alone 4 h post-stroke induction . After 7days , tissues were analyzed by immunohistochemistry for neuronal bodies , astrocytes , and microglia . Results LDE uptake was fivefold higher in ischemic rats than in controls ( p = 0003 ) . LDE-MTX significantly inhibited microglial activation , resulting in a tenfold decrease in activated macrophages , and increased neuronal survival by 319 % in the periinfarct area . LDE-MTX had no effect on astrocytosis or primary infarct size . Conclusions LDE-MTX demonstrated neuroprotective effects and shows potential as a novel strategy to limit ischemic stroke damage . The results suggest that LDE-MTX could be a promising treatment option for reducing ischemic damage in stroke patients , particularly through its effect on microglial activation and neuronal survival .
OBJECTIVES : Using the Triglyceride-Glucose ( TyG ) index to categorize patients and to compare the effects of different oils on metabolic biomarkers among diabetic patients . METHODS : A total of 98 diabetic patients were included in this retrospective hospital-based study of which data were obtained from medical and dietary records . The participants were divided into soybean oil groups or olive oil groups according to the dietary packages they chose during hospitalization , which merely differed in the kinds of cooking oil ( olive oil vs . soybean oil ) . After being matched based on propensity scores in a 1 : 1 ratio with a 2 caliber width , 70 subjects were finally included in the analysis . RESULTS : Compared to admission , blood pressure , lipids , and postprandial blood glucose were decreased at discharge in both groups . Grip strength levels of both hands increased in the olive oil group , while no statistical differences were found for these measures in the soybean oil group . In both the soybean oil and olive oil groups , metabolic biomarkers showed broader improvements at discharge for participants with high TyG levels compared to those with low TyG levels . Additionally , patients with high TyG levels in the olive oil group experienced the greatest benefits in terms of blood glucose , lipids , blood pressure , and handgrip strength before and after hospitalization . CONCLUSIONS : Olive oil may have more advantages in improving metabolic risk factors among diabetic patients . The TyG index can be a valuable tool for clinically screening and categorizing patients for personalized precision treatment .
Over the last 20 years , tributyltin ( TBT ) has been reported to cause metabolic disruption in both invertebrates and vertebrates , highlighting the need for further detailed analysis of its physiological effects . This study aimed to investigate the metabolic-disrupting effects of TBT from the behavioral to the molecular level . Adult specimens of the great pond snail ( Lymnaea stagnalis ) were exposed to an environmentally relevant concentration ( 100 ng L ( -1 ) ) of TBT for 21 days . After the chronic exposure , behavioral alterations as well as histological , cellular , and molecular changes were investigated in the central nervous system , kidney , and hepatopancreas . TBT exposure significantly decreased feeding activity , while locomotor activity remained unchanged . At the histological level , the cellular localization of tin was demonstrated in all tissues investigated and , in addition , characteristic morphological changes were observed in the kidney and hepatopancreas . Tissue-specific changes in lipid profiles confirmed TBT-induced disruption of lipid homeostasis in mollusks , characterized by a consistent reduction in the proportion of polyunsaturated fatty acids and a shift toward more saturated lipids . The expression of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 12 ( HSD17B12 ) enzyme , involved in lipid metabolism in vertebrates , was reduced in all three tissues after TBT exposure . Our results show that TBT induces significant multi-level metabolic changes in Lymnaea , including direct alterations in feeding activity and lipid composition . Our findings also suggest that HSD17B12 enzyme plays a key role in lipid metabolism in mollusks , as in mammals , and is likely involved in TBT-induced metabolic disruption . Overall , our study extends the findings of previous studies on mollusks by providing novel behavioral as well as tissue-specific histological and metabolic data and highlights the complexity and evolutionary conserved way of TBT-induced metabolic disruption .
BACKGROUND : Coronary heart disease ( CHD ) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide . Identifying key risk factors is essential for effective risk assessment and prevention . A data-driven approach using machine learning ( ML ) offers advanced techniques to analyze complex , nonlinear , and high-dimensional datasets , uncovering novel predictors of CHD that go beyond the limitations of traditional models , which rely on predefined variables . OBJECTIVE : This study aims to evaluate the contribution of various risk factors to CHD , focusing on both established and novel markers using ML techniques . METHODS : The study recruited 7672 participants aged 30-84 years from Suita City , Japan , between 1989 and Over an average of 15 years , participants were monitored for cardiovascular events . A total of 7260 participants and 28 variables were included in the analysis after excluding individuals with missing outcome data and eliminating unnecessary variables . Five ML models-logistic regression , random forest ( RF ) , support vector machine , Extreme Gradient Boosting , and Light Gradient-Boosting Machine-were applied for predicting CHD incidence . Model performance was evaluated using accuracy , sensitivity , specificity , precision , area under the curve , F1-score , calibration curves , observed-to-expected ratios , and decision curve analysis . Additionally , Shapley Additive Explanations ( SHAPs ) were used to interpret the prediction models and understand the contribution of various risk factors to CHD . RESULTS : Among 7260 participants , 305 ( 2% ) were diagnosed with CHD . The RF model demonstrated the highest performance , with an accuracy of 73 ( 95% CI 64-80 ) , sensitivity of 74 ( 95% CI 62-84 ) , specificity of 72 ( 95% CI 61-83 ) , and an area under the curve of 73 ( 95% CI 65-80 ) . RF also showed excellent calibration , with predicted probabilities closely aligning with observed outcomes , and provided substantial net benefit across a range of risk thresholds , as demonstrated by decision curve analysis . SHAP analysis elucidated key predictors of CHD , including the intima-media thickness ( IMT_cMax ) of the common carotid artery , blood pressure , lipid profiles ( non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and triglycerides ) , and estimated glomerular filtration rate . Novel risk factors identified as significant contributors to CHD risk included lower calcium levels , elevated white blood cell counts , and body fat percentage . Furthermore , a protective effect was observed in women , suggesting the potential necessity for gender-specific risk assessment strategies in future cardiovascular health evaluations . CONCLUSIONS : We developed a model to predict CHD using ML and applied SHAP methods for interpretation . This approach highlights the multifactor nature of CHD risk evaluation , aiming to support health care professionals in identifying risk factors and formulating effective prevention strategies .
10-Hydroxy-2-decenoic acid ( 10-HDA ) , a bioactive component of royal jelly , exhibits significant pharmacological value in various applications . To date , its biosynthesis has been reported exclusively in endotoxin-prone Escherichia coli , which limits its biomedical utility . In this study , we successfully engineered the Generally Recognized As Safe ( GRAS ) yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a biosynthetic platform for producing 10-HDA , thereby addressing the limitations associated with E . coli systems . By rewiring the beta-oxidation pathway , combining compartmentalization with chaperone-assisted P450 folding in mitochondria , and enhancing NADPH supply , a yield of 50 mg/L of 10-HDA was achieved using 100 mg/L decanoic acid as the substrate . Finally , to mitigate substrate toxicity , fed-batch fermentation using ethyl decanoate increased production 5-fold , reaching 6 mg/L , which is the highest titer reported in yeast to date . This GRAS-compliant platform not only facilitates the safe and efficient production of 10-HDA but also establishes a novel paradigm for the functional expression of prokaryotic P450 enzymes in yeast . FAU - Su , ChunLi
Enhancement of the cyclization of membrane lipids GDGTs ( glycerol dialkyl glycerol tetraethers ) is a critical strategy for archaea to adapt to various environmental stresses . However , the physiological function of membrane lipid cyclization remains unclear . Here , we reported that the GDGT ring synthases mutant , deficient in GDGT cyclization , inhibited archaellum formation and reduced cell motility in thermoacidophilic crenarchaeon Sulfolobus acidocaldarius . This inhibition was caused by decreased transcription of the archaellum operon , likely due to cleavage of the C-terminal domains in transmembrane proteins ArnRs , the transcription factors that regulate archaellum operon expression . The transcriptomic and proteomic analysis showed deficiency of GDGT cyclization broadly impacted the expression of membrane associate proteins , including respiratory chain proteins , and decreased cellular ATP concentration . Moreover , phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that the correlation between GDGT cyclization and archaellum formation is widespread among ( hyper ) thermophilic archaea , and this was further verified in the euryarchaeon Thermococcus kodakarensis . Our findings suggested that archaea modify their membrane lipids to profoundly alter cellular appendages and cell physiology to adapt to environmental fluctuations . FAU - Yang , Wei
Mycobacterial cell envelopes are rich in unusual lipids and glycans that play key roles during infection and vaccination . The most abundant envelope glycolipid is trehalose dimycolate ( TDM ) . TDM compromises the host response to mycobacterial species via multiple mechanisms , including inhibition of phagosome maturation . The molecular mechanism by which TDM inhibits phagosome maturation has been elusive . We find that a clickable , photoaffinity TDM probe recapitulates key phenotypes of native TDM in macrophage host cells and binds several host Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-Sensitive Factor Attachment Proteins Receptor ( SNARE ) proteins , including Vesicle Transport through Interaction with t-SNAREs 1B ( VTI1B ) , Syntaxin 8 ( STX8 ) , and Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 2 ( VAMP2 ) . VTI1B and STX8 normally promote endosome fusion by forming a complex with VAMP However , in the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis , VTI1B and STX8 complex with VAMP2 , which in turn decreases VAMP8 binding . VAMP2 acts together with mycolate structure to inhibit phagosome maturation and promotes intracellular M . tuberculosis replication . Thus one mechanism by which TDM constrains the innate immune response to M . tuberculosis is via noncanonical SNARE complexation . FAU - Santamaria , Carolina
Reducing malaria transmission has been a major pillar of control programmes and is considered crucial for achieving malaria elimination . Gametocytes , the transmissible forms of the P . falciparum parasite , arise during the blood stage of the parasite and develop through 5 morphologically distinct stages . Immature gametocytes ( stage I-IV ) sequester and develop in the extravascular niche of the bone marrow and possibly spleen . Only mature stage V gametocytes re-enter peripheral circulation to be taken up by mosquitoes for successful onward transmission . We have recently shown that immature , but not mature gametocytes are targets of host immune responses and identified putative target surface antigens . We hypothesize that these antigens play a role in gametocyte sequestration and contribute to acquired transmission-reducing immunity . Here we demonstrate that surface antigen expression , serum reactivity by human IgG , and opsonic phagocytosis by macrophages all show similar dynamics during gametocyte maturation , i . e . , peaking in the immature stages and tapering off in mature gametocytes . Moreover , the switch in surface reactivity coincides with reversal in phosphatidylserine ( PS ) surface exposure , a marker for red blood cell age and clearance . PS is exposed on the surface of a proportion of immature gametocyte-infected RBCs ( as well as in late asexual stages ) but is removed from the surface in later gametocyte stages ( IV-V ) . Using parasite reverse genetics and drug perturbations , we confirm that parasite protein export into the host cell and phospholipid scramblase activity are required for the observed surface modifications in asexual and sexual P . falciparum stages . Based on these findings we propose that the reversible surface remodelling allows ( i ) immature gametocyte sequestration in bone marrow followed by ( ii ) mature gametocyte release into peripheral circulation ( and immune evasion due to loss of surface antigens ) , therefore contributing to mature gametocyte survival in vivo and onward transmission to mosquitoes . Importantly , blocking scramblase activity during gametocyte maturation results in efficient clearance of mature gametocytes , revealing a potential path for transmission blocking interventions . Our studies have important implications for our understanding of parasite biology and form a starting point for novel intervention strategies to simultaneously reduce parasite burden and transmission .
The aging process significantly contributes to human disease , and as worldwide life expectancy increases , addressing the challenges of aging and age-related cardiovascular diseases is becoming increasingly urgent . Vascular aging is a key link between aging and the development of age-related diseases . Recent studies indicate that proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 ( PCSK9 ) , a type of protein involved in the metabolism of lipids , is crucial in modulating vascular aging by affecting the physiological functioning of vascular cells . PCSK9 is linked to lipid metabolism and chronic inflammation and is involved in regulating senescence-related activities , including migration , proliferation , apoptosis , and differentiation . These factors contribute to the aging of vascular cells and age-related vascular diseases , including atherosclerosis , hypertension , coronary artery disease , and cerebrovascular diseases . Given its involvement in these processes , this article provides a comprehensive summary of PCSK9 ' s regulatory functions in vascular aging , highlighting potential therapeutic targets for combating age-related cardiovascular diseases . FAU - Tan , Dong
BACKGROUND : Accumulation of calcium phosphate crystals is associated with vascular calcification ( VC ) ; however , the mechanism that promotes VC remains unclear . Accumulating evidence indicates that smooth muscle and endothelial cell-enriched migration/differentiation-associated lncRNA ( SENCR ) exerts a critical role in VC . This work focuses on the molecules involved in beta-glycerophosphate-induced osteogenic differentiation of vascular smooth muscle cells ( VSMCs ) through SENCR epigenetic modification of Runx2 in an endoplasmic reticulum stress ( ERS ) -dependent manner . METHODS : We cultured VSMCs to explore the relationship among beta-glycerophosphate , SENCR , and VC and also investigate the function of SENCR in beta-glycerophosphate-induced osteogenic differentiation and VC in vitro . RESULTS : Our findings indicate that beta-glycerophosphate enhanced SENCR , MSH homeobox 2 , Runx2 , ERS-related markers , alkaline phosphatase activity , and cellular calcium deposition and suppressed the expression of alpha-SMA , SM 22alpha , and miR-4731-5p . SENCR silencing increased miR-4731-5p expression , which subsequently inhibited beta-glycerophosphate-associated endoplasmic reticulum stress at the post-transcriptional level . Critically , the facts that direct interplay between SENCR and miR-4731-5p , and the downregulation of miR-4731-5p efficiently reversed the suppression of ERS-induced by SENCR silencing were observed . Collectively , the present study clarifies a novel mechanism by which downregulation of SRNRC contributes to the ERS-dependent osteogenic differentiation of VSMCs and VC by sponging miR-4731-5p . This study demonstrates that SENCR/miR-4731-5p axis is involved in beta-glycerophosphate-mediated VC in vitro .
Mutations in PIK3CA , the gene encoding the p110alpha catalytic subunit of PI3K , are among the most common mutations in human cancers and overgrowth syndromes . The ubiquitous expression of the activating Pik3caH1047R mutation results in reduced survival , organomegaly , hypoglycaemia and hypoinsulinemia in mice . Here we demonstrate that in vivo expression of Pik3caH1047R attenuates the rise in blood glucose in response to oral glucose administration , stimulates glucose uptake in peripheral tissues , inhibits hepatic gluconeogenesis and pancreatic insulin secretion , and increases adipose lipolysis and white adipose tissue browning . Together , our data reveal that the systemic activation of the PI3K pathway in mice disrupts glucose homeostasis through the regulation of hepatic gluconeogenesis , and leads to increased lipolysis of adipose tissue .
Two actinobacterial strains , designated NEAU-383 ( T ) and NEAU-Y11 ( T ) , exhibiting antifungal activity , were isolated from the rhizosphere soil of plants in Harbin , Heilongjiang Province , and Guangzhou , Guangdong Province , respectively . Both strains formed short , wrinkled , spiral spore chains on aerial hyphae . Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that strains NEAU-383 ( T ) and NEAU-Y11 ( T ) were most closely related to Streptomyces iranensis HM 35 ( T ) , Streptomyces rapamycinicus NRRL B-5491 ( T ) and Streptomyces coffeae CA1R205 ( T ) . However , digital DNA-DNA hybridization values between the two strains and their close relatives ( 1% between the two strains ; 5-0% for NEAU-383 ( T ) ; 0-8% for NEAU-Y11 ( T ) ) fell below the 70% species delineation threshold . The genomic G+C contents were 0 mol% for NEAU-383 ( T ) and 5 mol% for NEAU-Y11 ( T ) . Both strains contained glucose and ribose as whole-cell sugars . The predominant menaquinones were MK-9 ( H ) and MK-9 ( H ) , with NEAU-Y11 ( T ) additionally containing MK-9 ( H ) . The major fatty acids ( >10% ) in both strains included iso-C ( 15 : 0 ) , anteiso-C ( 15 : 0 ) , iso-C ( 16 : 0 ) and C ( 16 : 0 ) , whilst iso-C ( 17 : 0 ) was also a major component in NEAU-383 ( T ) . Both strains contained phosphatidylethanolamine and hydroxy-phosphatidylethanolamine as polar lipids . Additionally , NEAU-383 ( T ) also possessed diphosphatidylglycerol , phosphatidylinositol , an unidentified ninhydride-positive lipid and five unidentified lipids , whereas NEAU-Y11 ( T ) additionally contained two unidentified ninhydride-positive lipids and five unidentified lipids . Genomic analysis revealed that both strains possess abundant secondary metabolite biosynthesis gene clusters , including those for antibiotics , siderophores , polyketides and terpenoids , along with metabolic pathways associated with environmental adaptation . These findings provide insight into the potent antimicrobial activity exhibited by both strains . Based on genotypic , phenotypic and chemotaxonomic analyses , strains NEAU-383 ( T ) and NEAU-Y11 ( T ) represent two novel species within the genus Streptomyces , for which the names Streptomyces lycopersici ( type strain NEAU-383 ( T ) =JCM 36736 ( T ) =MCCC 1K08878 ( T ) ) and Streptomyces cucumeris ( type strain NEAU-Y11 ( T ) =JCM 36418 ( T ) =MCCC 1K08681 ( T ) ) are proposed . FAU - Qi , Shengtao
An actinomycete strain that produces a new antibiotic haneummycin , designated KM77-8 ( T ) , was isolated from marine sediment collected from Tokyo Bay near Haneda Airport , Japan . This strain was phylogenetically related to Streptomyces pilosus NBRC 12807 ( T ) , with the highest similarity ( 65% ) based on 16S rRNA gene sequences . In contrast , genome-based comparisons between strain KM77-8 ( T ) and S . pilosus JCM 4403 ( T ) ( =NBRC 12807 ( T ) ) revealed that average nucleotide identity ( ANI ) and digital DNA-DNA hybridization ( dDDH ) values were 29% and 00 % , respectively . Moreover , genome-based comparisons between strain KM77-8 ( T ) and other known Streptomyces species , including close relatives ( more than 7% similarities of 16S rRNA gene sequences ) , showed that their ANI and dDDH values were <90% and <70% , respectively . The DNA G+C content of strain KM77-8 ( T ) was 34% . The whole-cell hydrolysates of strain KM77-8 ( T ) contained ll-diaminopimelic acid , galactose , glucose , mannose and ribose . The major menaquinones ( MKs ) of this strain were MK-9 ( H ) and MK-9 ( H ) , and the major fatty acids ( >10% ) were anteiso-C ( 15 : 0 ) , iso-C ( 15 : 0 ) , C ( 16 : 0 ) , iso-C ( 16 : 0 ) and summed feature 3 ( C ( 16 : 1 ) omega7c/C ( 16 : 1 ) omega6c ) . Several phenotypic differences were observed between strain KM77-8 ( T ) and S . pilosus NBRC 12807 ( T ) . Furthermore , supernatant and methanol extract of not S . pilosus NBRC 12807 ( T ) but strain KM77-8 ( T ) displayed antibacterial activity against Enterococcus faecium and contained haneummycin . On the basis of the polyphasic data , we propose strain KM77-8 ( T ) as a novel species of the genus Streptomyces , named Streptomyces haneummycinicus sp . nov . The type strain is KM77-8 ( T ) ( =NBRC 115995 ( T ) =DSM 115857 ( T ) ) . FAU - Uemura , Moeka
Adipose triglyceride lipase ( ATGL ) , which catalyzes the breakdown of triglycerides in lipid droplets ( LDs ) , plays a critical role in releasing fatty acids to support insulin secretion in pancreatic beta cells . Based on genetic downregulation of ATGL in beta cells , multiple mechanisms are proposed that acutely or chronically regulate insulin secretion . Currently , the contribution of acute versus chronic mechanisms in the regulation of insulin secretion is unclear . Also , little is known whether ATGL affects alpha cell function . Using the human-specific ATGL inhibitor , NG497 , this study investigates the impact of acute inhibition of ATGL on hormone secretion from human islets . In addition , morphological differences in LDs were assessed in confocal images of beta and alpha cells . Beta cells exposed to NG497 overnight showed notable increases in LD size and number under glucose-sufficient culture . The effect of NG497 on LD accumulation in alpha cells was more prominent under fasting-simulated conditions than glucose-sufficient conditions , pointing toward a critical role for ATGL lipolysis under conditions that stimulate hormone secretion in beta and alpha cells . When exposed to NG497 acutely , human islets reduced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion mildly , particularly first-phase insulin secretion , to an extent somewhat less pronounced than the impacts of chronic ATGL downregulation . Thus , chronic mechanisms may play a predominant role in reducing insulin secretion when ATGL is downregulated . Acute exposure of human islets to NG497 significantly reduced amino acid stimulated glucagon secretion at low glucose concentration , highlighting an important potential role of ATGL lipolysis in promoting hormone secretion acutely from alpha cells .
BACKGROUND : Short-chain fatty acids , such as propionate , are produced from the fermentation of dietary fibre by gut microbiota and modulate adipose tissue metabolism to influence whole-body metabolic processes . Abdominal adipose tissue , critical in glucose and lipid homeostasis , is categorised into mesenteric , omental , and subcutaneous types based on its location . Adipose tissues display different metabolic phenotypes due to their distinct adipocyte lineages-white , brown , and beige . Recent evidence points to a significant impact of propionate on abdominal adipose tissue . Our study investigated the actions of propionate on the three types of human abdominal adipose tissue . METHODS : Adipose tissue from distinct depots ( mesenteric , omental and subcutaneous ) were collected from 40 patients who underwent open abdominal surgery for cholecystectomy or explorative laparotomy . Tissue explants and isolated adipocytes were treated with 1 mM propionate to assess adipose tissue browning and metabolic homeostatis . RESULTS : Propionate upregulated brown fat markers UCP1 and PGC1alpha in adipose tissue and mature adipocytes , particularly of mesenteric origin . Propionate exposure led to increased mitochondrial respiration and ATP production , primarily in mesenteric adipocytes , along with improved glucose uptake and reduced lipolysis and inflammation . In addition , propionate increased thermogenesis , glycolysis , and lipogenesis . CONCLUSION : The pronounced response of mesenteric adipose tissue to propionate underscores its potential as a therapeutic target for managing abdominal obesity and metabolic disorders .
OBJECTIVES : To estimate the incidence of comorbidities in persons with HIV ( PWH ) with a stable viral load ( VL ) of </=50 copies/mL and evaluate the likelihood of treatment switch ( TS ) according to the new development of dyslipidaemia ( DP ) , kidney disease and a weight change that determined overweight . METHODS : We carried out six case-control studies nested within the Icona Foundation Study cohort with the outcome of TS of the current regimen ( due to intolerance/toxicity or simplification ) and investigated the incident comorbidities . Conditional logistic regression models were employed . RESULTS : Overall , the median age of study participants was 45 years ( IQR : 36-52 ) , 19% were female , 48% were MSM and 17% were migrants . DP was confirmed to be the most frequent incident comorbidity [138 events ; incidence rate ( IR ) = 4% ; 95% CI : 7%-34%] , followed by estimated glomerular filtration rate ( eGFR ) deterioration and BMI elevation . None of the studied factors was associated with the risk of TS because of simplification . TS because of toxicity was predicted by incident DP [adjusted OR ( aOR ) = 49 , 95% CI : 19-19 , P = 02] and by a decline in eGFR of >10 mL/min/73 m2 ( aOR = 51 , 95% CI : 98-32 , P = 06 ) . The association with DP was stronger in participants who were receiving a boosted PI-based regimen at baseline ( aOR = 38 , 95% CI : 11-30 , P = 03 ) . Therapy discontinuation because of toxicity/simplification has remained common in PWH with VL of </=50 copies/mL in recent years . CONCLUSIONS : The onset of DP and a decline in eGFR was associated with discontinuations due to toxicity . Interventions aiming to mitigate the risk of developing lipid abnormalities in PWH are likely to also reduce the number of ART changes , which can potentially affect future drug options .
BACKGROUND : Human milk is a source of oligosaccharides that promote the growth of beneficial bacteria , including Bifidobacterium longum subsp . infantis , which can utilize human milk oligosaccharides . OBJECTIVES : To evaluate the individual and combined effects of 2 ' -fucosyllactose ( 2 ' -FL ) , B . infantis Bi-26 ( Bi-26 ) on piglet gut microbiota composition , and short-chain fatty acid ( SCFA ) concentrations . METHODS : Intact male pigs ( n = 63 ) had ad libitum access to milk replacer without ( control ; CON ) or with 0 g/L 2 ' -FL ( FL ) from postnatal day 2 to 34/ Pigs were further stratified to receive either 12% glycerol or 10 CFU/d Bi-26 in glycerol ( BI and FLBI ) . Gut microbiota and SCFA concentrations were determined in ascending colon contents ( AC ) and rectal contents ( RC ) by 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid gene sequencing and gas chromatography , respectively . Microbiota composition and functional profiles were analyzed using QIIME 2 and Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States-2 ( PICRUSt2 ) . RESULTS : Supplementation of 2 ' -FL increased valerate concentration in AC ( P = 03 ) and tended to modulate the overall bacterial composition in RC ( P = 06 ) . Compared with CON , 2 ' -FL alone increased the acetate concentration in AC ( P < 05 ) . The addition of Bi-26 decreased Shannon indices and reduced propionate and butyrate concentrations in AC ( P < 05 ) . Bi-26 alone affected the relative abundances of several bacterial amplicon sequence variants ( ASVs ) in AC and RC , including the ASVs identified as Phocaeicola ( Bacteroides ) vulgatus and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii . Additionally , 2 ' -FL and Bi-26 individually increased the relative abundances of 9 PICRUSt2-predicted metabolic pathways related to fatty acid and lipid biosynthesis or carboxylate degradation/secondary metabolite degradation in the RC ; however , these effects were negated , and the values were identical to the CON group when 2 ' -FL and Bi-26 were supplemented together . CONCLUSIONS : 2 ' -FL and Bi-26 added to milk replacer exerted distinct influences on gut bacterial composition and metabolic function , and 2 ' -FL alone increased specific SCFA concentrations , demonstrating its prebiotic potential .
The CORDELIA Study ( Collaborative Cohorts Reassembled Data to Study Mechanisms and Long-term Incidence of Chronic Diseases ) combines 35 Spanish population cohorts to investigate the clinical , environmental , genetic , and omics determinants of cardiovascular disease in the Southern European population . It aims to conduct the largest genome-wide association study to date on cardiovascular disease in this population , improve predictions of cardiovascular incidence using genomic and clinical data , and identify subgroups that would benefit most from targeted pharmacological and lifestyle interventions . CORDELIA includes 196 , 632 individuals ( ages 18-84 , 54% female , 96% born in Spain , 20% with higher education , recruited from 1989 to 2020 , with follow-up periods ranging from 5 to 30 years ) , with DNA samples available for 117 , 342 participants ( 60% ) . Of the participants , 24% were current smokers , 43% hypertensive , 11% diabetic , 15% medicated with lipid-lowering drugs , 44% overweight , and 27% obese . If not already available , genotyping is being performed using the Axiom Spain Biobank array ( ~ 750 , 000 variants , including 115 , 000 specific and 50 , 000 rare functional variants from the Spanish population ) . The cohort also includes incident events ( coronary heart disease , stroke , heart failure , peripheral artery disease , hypertension , diabetes ) ; date and cause of death ; and harmonized data on risk factors ( body mass index , waist circumference , lipid profile , blood pressure , glucose , creatinine ) , lifestyle ( smoking , physical activity , diet , alcohol ) , and socioeconomic status . 99 , 019 participants ( 50% ) also provide plasma samples . CORDELIA will significantly contribute to understanding the complex interplay of risk factors contributing to cardiovascular disease and advance the fields of precision medicine and public health in Southern European individuals .
A comparative analysis of some nutritional and biotechnological characteristics of muscle tissue of the most widespread and abundant mesopelagic fish species inhabiting the Irminger Sea ( North Atlantic ) was carried out . At the level of lipid metabolism , potential nutritional value was established for non-commercial Notoscopelus kroyeri and Serrivomer beanii along with the commercial beaked redfish Sebastes mentella . For Lampanyctus macdonaldi and , partially , Borostomias antarcticus , possible biotechnological value was shown in terms of extracting individual valuable molecules and substances of lipid nature . The other studied species ( Bathylagus euryops , Chauliodus sloani , Malacosteus niger , Scopelogadus beanii , and Stomias boa ) , as well as B . antarcticus , are very promising for their use in aquaculture in the development of innovative feed compositions and additives for them . It was found that the depth and area of catch don ' t have a significant effect on the nutritional and biotechnological characteristics of the muscle tissue of the studied species . The exception is B . euryops , the characteristics under consideration of which vary depending on the area of catch ; for S . mentella and S . beanii , on the depth of catch . The results of the study can serve as a basis for the development and improvement of methods and protocols for sustainable use of deep-sea biological resources in the process of their development in the North Atlantic region , as well as determine the areas of practical use of these species and the format of products obtained from them or with their use ( feed , additive , pure substance , composition , functional food product , etc . ) .
The effect of an inhibitor of interleukin ( IL ) 6 receptors on the state of the cardiovascular system in patients with rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) remains poorly understood , especially with its long-term use . THE AIM : of this work was to study the effect of therapy with the IL-6 receptor inhibitor tocilizumab ( TCZ ) on the dynamics of modifiable risk factors ( RF ) , total cardiovascular risk ( CVR ) , structural changes in the carotid arteries ( CA ) , and the incidence of cardiovascular complications ( CVC ) in patients with rheumatoid arthritis during the 260-week follow-up period . MATERIALS AND METHODS : : The study included 37 patients with active RA ( 32 women and 5 men ) with ineffectiveness and/or intolerance to disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs ( DMARDs ) ; median age was 56 [48 ; 68] years , disease duration was 92 [49 ; 158] months ; DAS28 ( Disease Activity Score 28 ) -2 [5 ; 7] points ; all patients were seropositive for rheumatoid factor ( RF ) , 86%-for antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptide ( ACCP ) . Patients received TCZ therapy 8 mg/kg intravenously every 4 weeks ; after 192 [176 ; 210] weeks , 60% of patients switched to subcutaneous administration of the drug at a dose of 162 mg once a week . In 51% of patients with RA , TCZ monotherapy was performed , in 49%-combination therapy of TCZ with DMARDs . Statins were received by 17 ( 46% ) patients , including 7 patients before and 10 after inclusion in the study . All patients underwent an assessment of traditional risk factors , the total cardiovascular risk was calculated using the mSCORE scale , atherosclerotic vascular lesions were assessed by the detection of atherosclerotic plaques ( ASP ) of CA . The observation period was 4 [5 ; 4] weeks . RESULTS : : After 260 weeks of TCZ therapy , RA remission was observed in 32 ( 86% ) patients , low activity-in 5 ( 14% ) patients . During the observation period , the frequency of modified RF and the total CVR did not change significantly , an increase in body mass index ( BMI ) by 11% was recorded , the number of patients with hypercholesterolemia and a reduced level of HDL cholesterol ( C ) decreased . In patients without statin therapy , there were no significant changes in the blood lipid spectrum . In the group of patients receiving statins , there was an increase in HDL-CH by 43% , a decrease in cholesterol levels by 15% , atherogenic index ( AI ) by 56% ( p < 01 in all cases ) and associations between the dynamics of cholesterol and CRP ( r = 35 ; p = 04 ) , LDL-CH and CRP ( r = 41 ; p = 03 ) . Significant structural changes in CA in RA patients by the end of 260 weeks of TCZ therapy were not identified . Initially , intima-media thickness ( IMT ) CA positively moderately correlated with age ( r = 7 ; p < 01 ) , BMI ( r = 37 ; p < 01 ) , systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) ( r = 62 ; p < 01 ) and weakly with lipid spectrum parameters-cholesterol ( r = 29 ; p < 01 ) , LDL-CH ( r = 36 ; p < 01 ) . No new associations of IMT CA by the end of the observation , as well as the relationship of the IMT CA value with the indicators of RA activity and the ongoing therapy , were identified . By the end of the study , the distribution of patients by mSCORE value and CVR level did not change significantly . The incidence of CVC was 54 per 100 patient-years over a 260-week period of TCZ use . CONCLUSIONS : : Against the background of long-term TCZ therapy in RA patients , there was no increase in CVR and significant structural changes in CA . It is necessary to dynamically monitor the blood lipid profile and CVR in RA patients receiving TCZ therapy . Statin therapy can successfully control dyslipidemia in RA patients who receive long-term TCZ .
QTL mapping , BSA-seq , and RNA-seq revealed key QTL/genes of protein and oil , some of which were aligned with previous QTLs . EMS-mutations and SoyGVD were applied to validate function of candidate genes . Protein and oil are the two principal economic components of soybean seed . Although several related genes regulating soybean protein and oil accumulation have been reported , the regulatory mechanisms remain largely unknown . In this study , quantitative trait loci ( QTL ) mapping was employed using four generations derived from a cross between Changjiangchun 2 ( high protein and oil content ) and Yushuxian 2 ( low protein and oil content ) , resulting in the detection of 37 QTLs , including 16 QTLs for protein content and 21 QTLs for oil content . BSA-seq was performed on two parents and two offspring extreme pools from F population individuals . Two QTLs , qOIL2 and qPRO1 , were found to overlap with the BSA-seq mapping interval , in which eight genes exhibited single nucleotide polymorphisms ( SNPs ) or insertion/deletion ( InDel ) variations within their coding sequences ( CDS ) . RNA-seq was performed on seeds collected at 20 , 30 , and 40 days after-pollination ( DAP ) from two extreme pools of F ( 2 : 3 ) population individuals . A total of 199 deferentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were obtained within the QTLs regions . In conjunction with previous research , 10 protein and four oil QTLs intervals were aligned with previously identified QTLs . Notably , based on EMS-induced mutation lines and SoyGVD database , 12 potential candidate genes were screened out and preliminary validated the function for oil and protein in soybeans . These findings lay the groundwork for further research into candidate genes and marker-assisted selection ( MAS ) in soybean breeding to enhance seed protein and oil content .
In mammals , the suprachiasmatic nucleus ( SCN ) serves as the central circadian pacemaker , regulating rhythms essential for physiological processes . STAT3 , a transcription factor primarily involved in immune signaling , exhibits circadian rhythmicity in SCN astrocytes . This study examined the role of STAT3 in circadian regulation across several cell types , including primary cultures of rat SCN and cortex , SCN cells and organotypic SCN slices from PER2 : : LUC mice , and C6 glioblastoma cells . Furthermore , the involvement of STAT3 in inflammatory responses was investigated in SCN and cortical primary cultures . STAT3 silencing enhanced Bmal1 expression across all tested cell types , disrupted Bmal1 rhythmicity in C6 cells , and reduced the amplitude of the PER2-driven rhythm in bioluminescence in SCN primary cells and organotypic cultures . In SCN cells , STAT3 silencing also attenuated its own expression and Gfap , whereas in cortical cells , it exhibited broader effects . Under LPS stimulation , STAT3 silencing in SCN cells reduced most LPS-induced genes , including inflammatory and oxidative stress markers , while showing variable effects in cortical cells . These findings indicate that while the role of STAT3 in the circadian clockwork appears consistent across cell types , its involvement in functional gene expression and immune responses may vary depending on the tissue and differ between SCN and cortical primary cells .
The increasing global temperatures , driven largely by anthropogenic activities , pose a significant threat to crops worldwide , with heat stress ( HS ) emerging as one of the most severe challenges to agricultural productivity . Among the numerous human-induced pressures threatening terrestrial ecosystems globally , microplastics ( MPs ) represent one of the most persistent and urgent concerns . This study investigated the effects of heat stress ( HS ) at 35 degrees C and 40 degrees C ( 12 h exposure ) on wheat ( Triticum aestivum ) and maize ( Zea mays ) grown in soil contaminated with polyethylene microplastics ( PE-MPs ; 01% , 1% , and 1% w/w ) , assessing their physiological and biochemical responses . The results indicated a significant ( p < 05 ) reduction in plant height , root length , leaf area , chlorophyll content , and biomass of the selected plants due to MPs application . HS alone and in co-exposure with MPs caused damage to plant tissues as shown by significant ( p < 05 ) reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) production , and lipid peroxidation . Under ROS induction , proline and antioxidant enzymes ( CAT , POD , SOD ) exhibited significantly ( p < 05 ) higher levels in combined stress ( HS + MPs ) than in individual treatments . In conclusion , wheat exhibited higher levels of H2O2 and MDA stress markers indicating increased oxidative stress compared to maize . In contrast , maize showed elevated levels of proline , CAT , POD , and SOD , suggesting greater resistance to environmental stresses than wheat . Our results provide new understandings of sustainable agriculture practices and hold vast promise in addressing the challenges of HS and MP stresses in agricultural soils .
Pheromone ComX is a critical element of the quorum-sensing ( QS ) system in Bacillus subtilis . It activates the surfactin promoter ( P ( srf ) ) to initiate surfactin production in a cell-density-dependent manner . In this study , the natural promoter P ( itu ) of B . subtilis 1A751 WR-itu , a lipopeptide iturin mono-producing parent strain , was replaced by the constitutive promoter P , QS P ( srf , ) and the mutated QS P ( M-srf ) , generating dynamic regulation systems to improve iturin production . HPLC analysis revealed that the P ( M-srf ) promoter-harbouring strain significantly enhanced iturin production to 33 +/- 77 mg . L ( - 1 ) , 15 times higher than the parent strain . Further identification by UPLC-HRESI-MS/MS and GC-MS indicated that the strain could produce four new C-C iturins . Moreover , the ComX degrading enzymes AprE or NprE were down-regulated by the CRISPR interference ( CRISPRi ) system , increasing iturin production to 46 +/- 43 mg . L ( - 1 ) and 99 +/- 02 mg . L ( - 1 ) , respectively . Interestingly , iturin production was further increased to 85 +/- 83 mg . L ( - 1 ) under simultaneous down-regulation of AprE and NprE , 05 times higher than the parent strain . The reconstructed ComQXPA QS system in B . subtilis combines the inhibitory of AprE and NprE to dynamically up and down-regulate the expression of iturin operon , providing an effective pipeline for regulating other bioactive molecules .
BACKGROUND : Uncontrolled diabetes mellitus ( DM ) accelerates atherosclerosis and vascular diseases , leading to micro- and macrovascular complications . Early cardiac and kidney involvement necessitates an early biomarker . Sclerostin is a Wnt-signaling inhibitor , having a pathophysiological role in vasculopathy , and could be used as a vasculopathy marker . Nevertheless , few data are available in pediatric patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( T1DM ) . We aimed at assessing its serum level , and relation to diabetic microvascular and macrovascular complications . METHODS : This is a case control study on patients with T1DM , and healthy controls . Patients were divided into non-diabetic nephropathy ( DN ) , and DN groups according to proteinuria . Patients ' clinicodemographic and anthropometrics were obtained , with withdrawal of fasting serum lipid profile , kidney function test , and serum sclerostin . Carotid intimal media thickness ( CIMT ) , a marker of subclinical atherosclerosis , was measured . RESULTS : We had 75 comparable subjects , where median ( IQR ) serum sclerostin levels were significantly higher in DN , compared to non-DN and controls [83 ( 32 - 1 ) , vs . 29 ( 37 - 53 ) , vs . 5 ( 32 - 72 ) ng/mL , respectively , p , < 001] . Similarly , median ( IQR ) CIMT was significantly higher in DN , than in non-DN and controls [1 ( 8 - 3 ) , vs . 11 ( 1 - 2 ) , vs . 11 ( 1 - 2 ) mm , respectively , p < 001] . Serum sclerostin level correlated positively with disease duration , higher HgbA1c% , albuminuria level , and CIMT in all patients . The cut-off values of serum sclerostin > 0 ng/mL and CIMT > 3 mm were able to detect DN . CONCLUSIONS : Serum sclerostin levels may serve as a potential biomarker for microvascular and macrovascular complications in pediatric patients with T1DM .
Neurons release neurotransmitters from synaptic vesicles ( SVs ) and neuropeptides from dense-core vesicles ( DCVs ) . The presynaptic proteins RIM and MUNC13 play key roles in both pathways . It remains unclear how DCVs are targeted to release sites and whether RIM and MUNC13 are involved in this process . Here , we show that three membrane-binding domains in RIM and MUNC13 regulate DCV exocytosis differently from SV exocytosis . Using neuropeptide secretion assays with single-vesicle resolution and peptidomics analysis of endogenous neuropeptide release in MUNC13/RIM null neurons , we demonstrate that MUNC13 is essential for DCV exocytosis . The RIM N terminus prevents MUNC13 degradation via the proteasome , and inhibiting proteasomal degradation partially rescues DCV exocytosis in RIM ' s absence . Unlike SV exocytosis , the PIP2-binding RIM C2B domain and MUNC13 C1-C2B polybasic face are redundant for DCV exocytosis , while the lipid-binding MUNC13 C2C domain is crucial . These results show that RIM and MUNC13 synergistically regulate DCV exocytosis through membrane interactions and reveal new mechanistic differences between SV and DCV exocytosis .
OBJECTIVES : To evaluate the available evidence on the metabolic outcomes of obstructive sleep apnea ( OSA ) surgery and identify gaps in the current literature . DATA SOURCES : A literature search was performed using PubMed , Embase , Web of Science , and Cochrane Library databases . REVIEW METHODS : Search strategy was developed with a senior informationist at our institution . Metabolic measures of interest included insulin resistance , fasting glucose , hemoglobin A1C ( HbA1c ) , inflammatory markers , adipokines , lipid profiles , and body mass index ( BMI ) . Title , abstract , and full-text screening were performed by three reviewers with subsequent narrative synthesis . RESULTS : 3484 studies were initially identified , with 160 meeting inclusion criteria . 129 studies were included solely due to reporting of pre- and post-operative BMIs . The remaining 31 studies ( n = 1675 participants ) examined other metabolic outcomes and included various categories of OSA surgery : soft tissue surgery alone ( 1% ) or in combination with nasal or skeletal surgery ( 3% ) , upper airway stimulation ( 5% ) , and skeletal surgery alone ( 2% ) . Within the 31 studies , the most commonly examined metabolic outcomes were C-reactive protein ( CRP , 1% ) , lipid profiles ( 1% ) , TNF-alpha and IL-6 ( 8% ) , fasting glucose ( 8% ) , leptin ( 6% ) , HbA1c ( 4% ) , and insulin resistance ( 1% ) . Most studies demonstrated improvements in CRP , TNF-alpha , IL-6 , and leptin , but no changes in fasting glucose , insulin resistance , or HbA1c . None of the included studies examined BMI as a primary outcome . CONCLUSIONS : The existing literature suggests that OSA surgery is associated with improvements in inflammatory markers . The paucity of studies on the metabolic outcomes of upper airway stimulation and skeletal surgery highlights knowledge gaps for these OSA surgeries .
BACKGROUND : In Ireland , a mixed public-private system exists , whereby some patients receive state-funded general practice ( GP ) care under the General Medical Services ( GMS ) , while private patients ( PPs ) pay fees . In 2020 , the chronic disease management programme was introduced at the practice level to enhance the management of eight conditions . This pay for performance ( P4P ) programme incentivises GPs to review GMS patients regularly using a structured protocol . It is hypothesized that ineligible PPs receiving ' routine care ' , receive a poorer standard of care . OBJECTIVE : To investigate the effect of P4P on the standard of care between PPs and GMS patients . METHODS : Retrospective cross-sectional study involving 11 GP practices in the Midwest of Ireland . Clinical parameters recorded for the previous 12 months on 25 GMS patients and 25 PPs , matched by age group , sex , and one clinical condition , were collected from each practice . Parameters included vaccination status , and recording of : blood pressure , smoking status , renal function , glycosylated haemoglobin , and lipids . RESULTS : Data from 550 patients showed that GMS patients were more likely than PPs to have received/been offered vaccinations ( influenza ( 66% vs 26% ) , COVID-19 ( 69% vs 23% ) , pneumococcal ( 59% vs 15% ) ) . GMS patients were more likely than PPs to have other parameters measured : blood pressure ( 92% vs 54% ) ; smoking status ( 84% vs 24% ) ; renal function ( 90% vs 59% ) ; glycated haemoglobin ( 87% vs 56% ) ; lipids ( 89% vs 57% ) ( P < . 001 for all parameters ) . CONCLUSION : Significant disparities exist in the management of chronic disease in Ireland between GMS patients and PPs . Limiting P4P programmes to GMS patients promotes inequality .
Aims : Despite significant advancements in therapies , heart failure ( HF ) remains a major health challenge . Women , who are underrepresented in HF research , are particularly in need of effective treatments . B-vitamins are a promising and cost-effective option for improving cardiac function . Our study aimed to investigate the sex-specific effects of B-vitamin supplementation on HF with reduced ejection fraction in mice . Methods and results : Male and female mice underwent transverse aortic constriction ( TAC ) to induce pressure overload . Four weeks post-TAC , mice were randomized to receive either a standard or a vitamin B-enriched ( VitB ) diet . We found that in females , but not in males , VitB : i ) extended survival , ii ) slowed down the decrease in ejection fraction ( EF ) , and iii ) improved left ventricular morphology . The observed benefits in females were associated with evidence of improved cardiac and lung fibrosis as well as lower inflammation . In contrast , in males , VitB treatment did not reduce cardiac and lung fibrosis while inflammation remained active in the myocardium . Regarding the circulating lipidome , disturbances were normalized in females with a specific enrichment in long-chain and polyunsaturated triglycerides ( TG ) in response to VitB . Conversely , in males , lipidomic alterations remained under VitB treatment and were characterized by the accumulation of shorter and saturated TG in the circulation and myocardium . Conclusion : These data reveal a sex-specific response to VitB supplementation in HF in the context of pressure overload and point to a differential lipidomic remodeling that is only favorable in females . FAU - David , Chloe
To reduce the burden of colorectal cancer ( CRC ) , the chemopreventive effects of 1-year metformin on polyps or adenoma recurrence in patients without diabetes mellitus ( DM ) who underwent polypectomy were evaluated . Patients without DM aged between 40 and 70 years old , with no polyp or adenoma after polypectomy , were randomly assigned to the control ( no intervention ) , low-dose ( 500 mg/day ) , or high-dose ( 1 , 000 mg/day ) metformin groups in a 1 : 1 : 1 ratio . After the 1-year intervention , the numbers of polyps and adenomas were measured and recorded , then resected . Plasma lipid and blood glucose were measured at baseline and 1-year follow-up . Data from the three groups were compared statistically . A total of 272 patients were enrolled in the analysis . In the control group , 9% of patients had adenoma recurrence , which was significantly higher than those in the low-dose ( 8% , p=012 ) and the high-dose ( 9% , p=009 ) metformin group . For the number of recurrent adenomas per subject , the difference between the control and the high-dose metformin groups was significant ( 86+/-09 vs . 47+/-83 , p=020 ) . No significant difference among the three groups and between baseline and 1-year follow-up was found in the lipid and glucose parameters . In conclusion , 1-year metformin use reduced the prevalence of recurrent adenoma significantly in patients without DM after polypectomy and may not be related to lipid and glucose metabolism . FAU - Wang , Wen
Due to the unclear etiology and pathogenesis of temporomandibular joint disorders ( TMDs ) , current treatments often fail to provide long-term relief or halt disease progression . Therefore , this study aims to explore the underlying etiologic mechanisms by focusing on the causal relationship between the gut microbiome ( GM ) and TMD through a multi-omics approach . This includes mendelian randomization ( MR ) analysis of GM , metabolomics , and TMD data , as well as transcriptomic analysis . In accordance with MR guidelines , we utilized summary-level genome-wide association study data to perform bidirectional MR , identifying 28 gut microbial taxa with causal effects on TMD . The following species had the strongest associations with TMD incidence : RUG147 sp900315495 ( odds ratio [OR] , 016 ; 95% CI , 219 to 333 ; P = 006 ) , CAG-194 sp002441865 ( OR , 713 ; 95% CI , 555 to 916 ; P = 008 ) , CAG-145 sp000435615 ( OR , 166 ; 95% CI , 040 to 308 ; P = 009 ) , and CAG-81 sp000435795 ( OR , 150 ; 95% CI , 036 to 276 ; P = 009 ) . To explore the mediating role of metabolites , a 2-step mediation MR approach was employed , revealing that lipid-related metabolites serve as key mediators in the GM-TMD interaction . Specifically , total cholesterol in high-density lipoprotein 3 was identified as a mediator of CAG-145 sp000435615 on TMD ( -13% ) . Further analysis based on transcriptomic data identified differentially expressed and shared genes between GM and TMD , with the AGE-RAGE ( advanced glycation end products-receptor for advanced glycation end products ) and processes related to cell adhesion and inflammation emerging as significant pathways . These findings highlight the role of GM dysbiosis in TMD pathogenesis , potentially through disruptions in lipid metabolism and inflammatory processes , suggesting new therapeutic strategies targeting GM and its associated pathways . FAU - Jiang , Y
The increasing prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases necessitates the development of novel approaches to study , diagnose , and treat these devastating disorders . Accordingly , there is a critical need to precisely address the gap in the biochemical and physiological mechanisms that underlie neurodegenerative diseases to promote advancements in therapeutic interventions . Parkinson ' s Disease ( PD ) , the second most common neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer ' s , demands further research focused on unravelling the rather intricate molecular mechanisms that drive its progression upon different cell signaling cues . While alpha-synuclein aggregation and mitochondrial dysfunction are two cellular hallmarks of the molecular pathophysiology of PD , few drugs are currently in clinical trials for treatment of PD , which warrants further studies to identify new therapeutic molecular targets . Herein , we briefly highlight some of the reported roles of ferroptosis , a modality of cell death that is driven by iron-dependent phospholipid peroxidation , and its regulation by glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) . We discuss the interconnectedness between lipid peroxidation and GPX4 regulation in the context of molecular pathogenesis of PD . Future studies are imperative in investigating the physiological role of ferroptosis and the translational impact of ferroptosis-specific modulators in studying PD biology .
The health risks associated with benzene series emissions from decorative materials have become a paramount concern in indoor air quality assessments , particularly given their established link with cardiovascular diseases , such as hypertension and atherosclerosis . Despite epidemiological evidence supporting this correlation , the underlying mechanisms remain under debate . This research comprehensively reviewed contemporary epidemiological studies on the cardiovascular impacts of benzene series emissions . It concentrated on the elucidation of their vascular toxicity , encompassing structural damage to vascular tissues , impaired vasoconstrictive-diastolic function , and abnormal lipid accumulation . By illuminating these research advancements , this study aimed to outline directions for future investigations and furnish insights into mitigating the risk of cardiovascular diseases stemming from benzene-contaminated decorative materials , ultimately contributing to public health protection . FAU - Zhang , Tanliu
Fungal cell wall acts as a defense barrier , shielding the cell from varying environmental stresses . Cell wall proteins , such as glycosylphosphatidylinositol ( GPI ) -anchored proteins , are involved in swift and appropriate responses to minor environmental changes in fungi . However , the roles of these proteins in the pathogenic Sclerotinia sclerotiorum remain largely unexplored . Here , we identified a novel GPI-anchored protein in S . sclerotiorum , SsGSP1 , comprising a Kre9_KNH domain . SsGSP1 was upregulated during infection , and the loss-of-function mutants of SsGSP1 exhibited the compromised cell wall integrity and reduced beta-glucan content . During inoculation on Arabidopsis thaliana , Nicotiana benthamiana , and Brassica napus , the SsGSP1-deletion strains demonstrated the decreased virulence . The transgenic A . thaliana line carrying the sRNA targeting SsGSP1 enhanced resistance to S . sclerotiorum via Host-Induced Gene Silencing ( HIGS ) . The SsGSP1-deficient strains displayed the heightened sensitivity to various stresses , including osmotic pressure , oxidative stress , and heat shock . The yeast two-hybrid and BiFC assays confirmed that SsGSP1 interacted with the key stress-related proteins catalase SsCat2 , heat shock protein Sshsp60 , and ABC transporter SsBMR Accordingly , transcriptome analysis revealed that the disruption of SsGSP1 downregulated the expression of genes involved in oxidative stress response , heat shock response , and chemical agent resistance . These results collectively delineate the intricate role of GPI-anchored protein SsGSP1 in beta-glucan , cell wall integrity , and virulence and may act as a potential surface sensor to elicit signal transduction in response to environmental stresses in S . sclerotiorum . FAU - Liao , Hongmei
Mass spectrometry imaging is a developing technique that maps the molecular composition of samples in a label-free manner . However , highly heterogeneous samples , including bones , usually cannot be easily analyzed due to challenging sample preparation , particularly in minimizing cracks and maintaining flatness . To comprehensively address these issues , we developed a sample preparation method for the fresh frozen heterogeneous samples such as knee joint and skull of murine , which includes complex structures and tissue types , such as neuronal tissue , peripheral nerve , muscle , tracks , connective tissue , cartilage , mineralized bone , and bone marrow . By controlling the sample thickness and employing an optimized drying method , we achieved minimal cracking . We found that a combination of lyophilization and 5 mum section thickness , when attached to a cryofilm , was readily achievable and significantly reduced cracking in bone tissue . Additionally , we implemented a contactless spin-flattening technique to ensure surface uniformity . Centrifuging the section at 7000g improved surface flatness , bringing the height variation within the range typically observed in soft tissues while also removing excess mounting medium and bubbles . This approach enhances the sample quality and reliability without requiring complex manual skills , making it more practical and reproducible for routine analysis . High molecular coverage was achieved , including small metabolites , metals , and lipids , by using the N- ( 1-naphthyl ) ethylenediamine dihydrochloride ( NEDC ) matrix . To further explore the potential of our workflow , high-resolution MSI was performed on rat tibial growth plates at different growth stages . Numbers of N-acetyl disaccharide sulfate and PE ( 34 : 1 ) are found to be complementary expressed in growth plate cartilage and have different intensities at different growth stages . Our findings suggested the potential involvement of those metabolites in bone development . By addressing the challenges of sample preparation , including surface flatness , bubbles , and severe cracking , our approach significantly improves the quality of the MS imaging . Additionally , this method offers a broad detection range that encompasses both metal ions and metabolites . This advancement enables detailed and accurate molecular characterization of rigid biological samples , enhancing the potential for applications in biomedical research . FAU - Diao , Xin
Atherosclerosis ( AS ) is a slowly progressive disease that significantly increases the risk of cardiovascular diseases . The development of AS is closely associated with various factors , including disturbances in lipid metabolism , endothelial damage , inflammation , and the formation of unstable plaques . AS is strongly linked to diseases with high incidence and mortality , such as ischemic heart disease and stroke , which pose significant economic burdens . Recent studies have focused on identifying effective treatments for preventing and reversing AS . New evidence indicates that fucoidan , a polysaccharide derived from rockweed , possesses lipid-lowering , antioxidant , anti-inflammatory , endothelial-protective and prebiotic properties that align with the pathophysiology of AS , making it a promising therapeutic candidate . This review systematically presents recent progress in understanding the anti-atherosclerotic effects of fucoidan , particularly its underlying mechanisms . These mechanisms involve the regulation of lipid levels , reduction of vascular inflammation , enhancement of antioxidant defenses , and protection of the vascular endothelium . These insights are essential for improving cardiovascular and cerebrovascular health . FAU - Feng , Qiujian
Currently , there is a growing concern for human health with the rise of environmental pollution . Water contamination and health problems had been understood . Sanitation-related health issues have been overcome in the greater part of the world . Progressive industrialization has caused a number of new pollutants in water and in the atmosphere . It is a growing concern for the human health , especially upon the reproductive health . Current researchers provide a strong association between the rising concentrations of ambient pollutants and the adverse health impact . Furthermore , the pollutants have the adverse effects upon reproductive health as well . Major concern is for the health of a pregnant woman and her baby . Maternal-fetal inflammatory response due to the pollutants affects the pregnancy outcome adversely . Preterm labor , fetal growth restriction , intrauterine fetal death , and stillbirths have been observed . Varieties of pathological processes including inflammation , endocrine dysfunction , epigenetic changes , oxidative and nitrosative stress , and placental dysfunction have been explained as the biological plausibility . Prospective studies ( systematic review and meta-analysis ) have established that exposure to particulate matters ( PM ) and the nanoparticles ( NP ) leads to excessive oxidative changes to cause DNA mutations , lipid peroxidation and protein oxidation . Progressive industrialization and emergence of heavy metals , micro- ( MP ) and nanoparticles ( NP ) in the atmosphere and in water are the cause for concern . However , most of the information is based on studies from industrialized countries . India needs its own country-based study to have the exact idea and to develop the mechanistic pathways for the control .
INTRODUCTION : Potato ( Solanum tuberosum L . ) , as an important food crop on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau , is prone to low temperature and frost damage during the seedling stage , causing economic losses for farmers . METHODS : In this study , metabolome and transcriptome analyses were conducted on the leaves of Atlantic ( cold-resistant ) and KY140 ( cold-sensitive ) potato varieties following exposure to cold stress ( CS ) . RESULTS : After CS , 298 and 195 differentially accumulated metabolites ( DAMs ) were identified in Atlantic and KY140 , respectively , with 124 common DAMs , including lipids , flavonoids , alkaloids , organic acids , amino acids and their derivatives , nucleotides and their derivatives , lignans and coumarins , phenolic acids , and terpenoids . A total of 6928 and 2428 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) were identified in Atlantic and KY140 , respectively , with 1131 common DEGs . Joint analysis of DAMs and DEGs , " flavonoid-related metabolism , " " lipid metabolism , " and " amino acid metabolism " were plotted . Cinnamic acid , caffeic acid , naringenin , and gamma-aminobutyric acid ( GABA ) might participate in the regulation of potato resistance to CS . The genes StPAL ( Soltu . Atl . 09_2G005110 ) and StGAD ( Soltu . Atl . 11_3G000340 ) encode enzymes responsible for the biosynthesis of cinnamic acid and GABA , respectively , suggesting their involvement in the regulation of cold resistance in potato . DISCUSSION : Our results provided novel insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying cold resistance in potato .
The most prevalent vector-borne diseases in North America and Europe is still Lyme disease , which is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi . As incidence rates rise , this poses a serious threat to public health . Since there is presently no vaccine for Lyme disease that is suitable for human use after the LYMErix vaccine was withdrawn in 2002 due to safety issues and insufficient adoption , there is an urgent need for an effective vaccination to protect at-risk populations . Numerous intriguing vaccine candidates have been developed as a result of advances in molecular biology and immunology ; nevertheless , it is still unclear which candidate provides the best balance of durability , safety , and efficacy . The purpose of this meta-analysis and systematic review is to assess the safety and effectiveness of many Lyme disease vaccine candidates that are presently undergoing clinical trials . According to PRISMA guideline , the systematic review was performed , and the meta-analysis was performed using random-effect model . This study evaluates the efficacy of multiple Lyme disease vaccine candidates and identifies recombinant OspA-based formulations as the most promising by combining data from observational studies and randomized controlled trials . With an emphasis on OspA-based and multivalent vaccinations , we present comparative evaluations of immune responses , side effects , and long-term protection across vaccine platforms . This research is to help steer public health policy and vaccine development activities in the direction of a successful Lyme disease vaccine and emphasizes how certain vaccine candidates may lessen the impact of Lyme disease .
Thyroid cancer ( TC ) is one of the most common endocrine system tumors , and its incidence continues to increase worldwide . Although most TC patients have a good prognosis , especially with continuous advancements in surgery , radioactive iodine therapy , chemotherapy , endocrine therapy and targeted therapy , the effectiveness of disease treatment has significantly improved . However , there are still some cases with a higher risk of death and greater aggressiveness . In these more challenging advanced or highly aggressive cases , tyrosine kinase inhibitors appear to be an effective treatment option . Unfortunately , these drugs are less than ideal in terms of efficacy because of their toxicity and potential for intrinsic or acquired resistance . Therefore , exploring new strategies targeting the metabolic characteristics of TC cells and overcoming drug resistance barriers in existing treatments have become key topics in the current field of TC research . In recent years , lipid metabolic reprogramming has gained attention as an important aspect of cancer development . Lipid metabolic reprogramming not only participates in the formation of the cell membrane structure , but also plays an important role in signal transduction and promoting cell proliferation . In particular , fatty acid ( FA ) metabolic reprogramming has attracted widespread attention and plays an important role in multiple aspects such as tumor growth , metastasis , enhanced invasive ability , immune escape , and drug resistance . Although TC is considered a disease that is highly dependent on specific types of metabolic activities , a comprehensive understanding of the specific mechanism of action of FA metabolic reprogramming in this process is lacking . This article aims to review how FA metabolic reprogramming participates in the occurrence and development of TC , focusing on the impact of abnormal FA metabolic pathways and changes in the expression and regulation of related genes over the course of this disease . By examining the complex interactions between FA metabolic disorders and carcinogenic signaling pathways in depth , we aim to identify new therapeutic targets and develop more precise and effective treatments for TC .
OBJECTIVES : Atherosclerosis is the underlying pathology of cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) , including hypertension . Unfortunately , the association between the atherogenic index of plasma ( AIP ) and hypertension has not been reported in a large-scale middle-aged and elderly population . This study aimed to evaluate the association between AIP and hypertension in a representative middle-aged and elderly population in China . METHODS : The present study was a retrospective cohort study . We conducted cross-sectional and longitudinal analysis using data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) from 2011 to Hypertension was identified by self-report or by taking antihypertensive medications . Participants aged below 45 years , with missing data on AIP , hypertension records , or taking lipid-lowering medication were excluded . RESULTS : A total of 12 , 376 participants were included in the cross-sectional analysis ; we found that after adjusting for covariates , each unit increment in AIP was associated with a 0% increased prevalence of hypertension ( OR = 090 , 95% CI : 776-459 ) , a 2% increased likelihood of systolic blood pressure ( SBP ) above 140 mmHg ( OR = 412 , 95% CI : 199-664 ) , and a 9% increased likelihood of diastolic blood pressure ( DBP ) above 90 mmHg ( OR = 439 , 95% CI : 153-795 ) . A total of 5649 participants were included in the longitudinal analysis ; we found that every one-unit increase in AIP was associated with a 7% increase in hypertension incidence ( OR = 577 , 95% CI : 282-941 , p < 001 ) during 7 years follow-up . CONCLUSIONS : These results demonstrated a significant positive association between AIP and the prevalence and incidence of hypertension in a nationwide representative middle-aged and elderly population in China .
High-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , as a crucial component of lipid metabolism , have roles in regulating Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) core pathology amyloid beta ( Abeta ) and phosphorylated tau ( p-tau ) through its apolipoproteins , which are associated with brain structures , cognition , and risk of dementia . The pool of HDL apolipoproteins-in the brain and in the periphery-has its own distinct origin , composition , and regulatory mechanisms . It remains unclear whether these apolipoproteins in the periphery and CNS play distinct roles in the pathogenesis of AD . Specifically , this review focus on the distinct associations of apolipoprotein AI and apolipoprotein E-the major components of HDL in the blood and CSF-with pathological proteins , brain integrity , cognition , and dementia progression in AD . We summarize and examine the current state of knowledge on the values of these apolipoproteins in AD pathogenesis and clinical potential .
Introduction : As a polygenic disorder , Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a prevalent disease developed by many multigenetic factors , of which multiple genes located on different chromosomes contribute to its susceptibility . The KCNJ11 gene is involved in the Kir2 proteins that help release insulin from the potassium channels in pancreatic beta cells . Many studies have found that KCNJ11 polymorphism is significantly associated with the incidence of T2DM . Therefore , this study was carried out to investigate the association between KCNJ11 gene polymorphism and T2DM in the Bangladeshi population . Materials and Methods : In a case-control study ( n = 697 ) , 326 nondiabetic controls and 371 diabetic subjects ( diagnosed based on American Diabetes Association criteria ) were recruited for this study . The serum fasting glucose , lipid profiles , creatinine , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , HbA ( 1C ) , and serum insulin level were measured by standard methods . HOMA-B% , HOMA-S% , and HOMA-IR were calculated using HOMA-SIGMA software Version A standard formula calculated QUICKI and Secretory-HOMA . The chemical method was used for DNA extraction from whole blood samples . The PCR-RFLP method was used to detect KCNJ11 polymorphisms by restriction enzyme ( BanII ) digestion . As appropriate , data were analyzed using an independent t-test , chi-square , or Fisher exact test . p < 05 was considered significant . Results : The frequency of the risk allele K was significantly higher in the T2DM group than control ( p </= 01 ) . The frequency of the KK genotype was higher among the T2DM group ( 77% vs . 84% , p < 05 ) , and the frequency of the EK genotype was significantly higher among the T2DM than the control group ( 86% vs . 91% , p < 001 ) . The EE genotype was significantly associated with T2DM in the dominant model EE + EK with an OR of 06 ( 95% CI 51-82 , p </= 001 ) . Conclusion : This study showed that rs5219 polymorphism of the KCNJ11 gene is a significant risk factor for Type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Bangladeshi population .
Diabetic kidney disease ( DKD ) is one of the major complications of diabetes , and its pathological progression is closely associated with lipid metabolic reprogramming . Under diabetic conditions , renal cells undergo significant lipid metabolic abnormalities , including increased lipid uptake , impaired fatty acid oxidation , disrupted cholesterol efflux , and enhanced lipid catabolism , as adaptive responses to metabolic stress . These changes result in the accumulation of lipids such as free fatty acids , diacylglycerol , and ceramides , leading to lipotoxicity that triggers inflammation and fibrosis . Hypoxia in the DKD microenvironment suppresses fatty acid oxidation and promotes lipid synthesis through the HIF-1alpha pathway , while chronic inflammation exacerbates lipid metabolic disturbances via inflammatory cytokines , inflammasomes , and macrophage polarization . Targeting lipid metabolism represents a promising therapeutic strategy for alleviating DKD ; however , further clinical translational studies are warranted to validate the efficacy and safety of these approaches .
BACKGROUND : Snakebite-induced acute kidney injury ( SAKI ) is a life-threatening complication . Despite its impact on public health , the understanding of the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms remains limited . There is a lack of studies investigating the role of oxidative stress , oxidative deoxyribonucleic acid ( DNA ) damage , inflammation , and endothelial dysfunction in SAKI . This study aims to address this knowledge gap . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Biomarkers of oxidative stress , including oxidative DNA damage , inflammation , and endothelial dysfunction were assessed in 30 patients with SAKI and 30 healthy controls . Malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , protein carbonyl content ( PCC ) , advanced glycation end products ( AGEs ) , 8-hydroxy-2 ' -deoxyguanosine ( 8-OHdG ) , ferric reducing ability of plasma ( FRAP ) , high-sensitivity C-reactive protein ( hs-CRP ) , and nitric oxide ( NO ) were used as biomarkers . RESULTS : We found significantly elevated levels of MDA ( 1590+/-68221 micromol/L vs 8769+/-2958 micromol/L , p = <001 ) , PCC ( 0905+/-040 nmol/L vs 0501+/-024 nmol/L , p = <001 ) and 8-OHdG ( 0757+/-09105 ng/mL vs 8450+/-31479 ng/mL , p = <001 ) in SAKI patients compared to controls , indicating increased oxidative damage to lipids , proteins , and DNA respectively . Although AGEs showed higher levels in SAKI patients , the difference was not significant . FRAP levels were significantly reduced [214 ( 051-489 ) mmol/L vs 470 ( 136-564 ) mmol/L , p = 024] , indicating compromised antioxidant capacity . Significantly elevated levels of hs-CRP [18 ( 96-56 ) mg/L vs 44 ( 5-45 ) mg/L , p = <001] and NO [59 ( 75-43 ) micromol/L vs 218 ( 37-35 ) micromol/L , p = <001] confirmed the presence of inflammation and endothelial dysfunction in these patients . CONCLUSION : Our study demonstrated oxidative stress , including oxidative DNA damage , inflammation , and endothelial dysfunction , in SAKI patients . Understanding these intricate mechanisms could lead to the development of novel diagnostic tools and therapeutic strategies .
BACKGROUND : Patients with chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) experience high mortality rates from cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) . Insulin resistance ( IR ) is a frequent complication of CKD and is associated with poorer cardiovascular outcomes . This study investigates the prevalence and associations of IR in hemodialysis ( HD ) patients . MATERIALS AND METHODS : A descriptive-analytic cross-sectional study was conducted on 103 HD patients . We used the Homeostasis Model Assessment of Insulin Resistance ( HOMA-IR ) and the Quantitative Insulin Sensitivity Check Index ( QUICKI ) to measure IR . We examined potential associations between IR and the following factors : age , gender , etiology of kidney failure , BMI , waist circumference , blood lipids , hemoglobin concentration , uric acid , and duration of HD . RESULTS : The prevalence of IR , as measured by HOMA-IR , was 2% , and by QUICKI , it was 5% . Age , gender , etiology of kidney failure and increased waist circumference did not significantly influence IR . A significant associations were observed between IR and higher BMI , anemia , dyslipidemia , and longer duration of HD therapy . Interestingly , the HOMA-IR and QUICKI indices correlated for most factors except total cholesterol , LDL-C , and uric acid . CONCLUSION : This study found a high prevalence of IR in HD patients , with 2% identified by HOMA-IR and 5% by QUICKI . We confirmed significant associations between IR and BMI , anemia , dyslipidemia , and duration of HD therapy in this population .
Echinocandin B ( ECB ) , a non-ribosomal lipopeptide synthesized by ascomycete fungi , serves as a first-line therapeutic agent for invasive fungal infections . While the biosynthetic gene clusters of ECB have been identified in several Aspergillus species , the regulatory mechanisms governing its intracellular biosynthesis remain poorly understood , hindering the development of efficient ECB-producing cell factories . To address this issue , we elucidated the mechanisms underlying echinocandin B ( ECB ) biosynthesis in Aspergillus nidulans ZJB16068 under fatty acid feeding conditions through genome and transcriptome sequencing . The genome of ZJB16068 was sequenced using Oxford Nanopore Technology , yielding a 67 Mbp assembly with 11 scaffolds and a GC content of 23% . A total of 10 , 505 protein-coding genes were annotated , revealing 66 secondary metabolite gene clusters . Comparative transcriptomics between ZJB16068 and the reference strain ZJB0817 identified 2 , 342 differentially expressed genes ( DEGs ) under fatty acid supplementation . The KEGG analysis of the top 20 DEGs highlighted predominant metabolic pathways , including translation , energy metabolism , cofactor supply and lipid metabolism . We found that the up-regulation of genes related to the fatty acid metabolic pathway , pantothenic acid and CoA synthesis pathway accelerated the synthesis of acetyl-CoA , and the down-regulation of TCA pathway contributed to the throttling of acetyl-CoA . In addition , the genes involved in oxidative phosphorylation are fully upregulated , providing sufficient ATP for ECB synthesis . These pathways synergistically enhance the synthesis of ECB . These findings highlight the critical role of acetyl-CoA synthesis and energy supply in ECB synthesis and provide potential direction for future metabolic engineering aiming at increasing ECB production . SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION : The online version contains supplementary material available at 1007/s13205-025-04331-
The DBHS protein family of Nono , PSPC1 , and SFPQ regulates diverse aspects of RNA metabolism . Whether these proteins share similar functions is currently unknown . In mouse embryonic fibroblasts ( MEFs ) , we observed around 2000 circadian and non-circadian genes regulated by Nono and PSPC1 , with only 35% in common . Considering specifically circadian genes , up- or downregulation by Nono and PSPC1 depends mainly on the gene phase . We postulated a regulatory role of Nono on R-loops , the class of non-B DNA structures that form during transcription . We confirmed this by showing a broad effect of Nono on genome-wide R-loop homeostasis . Interestingly , the R-loop regulation by Nono occurs in a time-of-day dependent manner among the circadian genes . Moreover , we showed a protective role of Nono in a DNA damage cellular model that involves R-loop accumulation . Further studies are required to understand the circadian regulation of R-loops and their implications on gene regulation and disease .
Natural killer ( NK ) cells are innate immune cells able to recognize and eliminate virus-infected cells . NK cell activity strongly correlates with a metabolic reprogramming and breakdown of fatty acids by beta-oxidation during virus infections . However , there is limited knowledge regarding the impact of obesity on antiviral NK cell functions . Here , employing the Friend retrovirus mouse model , we show that the cytotoxicity and cytokine production of NK cells was impaired in obesity , leading to higher viral loads . NK cells suppression in obesity was mediated by activated Tregs . Furthermore , obese mice that were switched back to a regular diet showed complete recovery of the NK cell activity . Interestingly , feeding mice with a high-fat diet ( HFD ) for just ten days caused NK cell dysfunction and increased retroviral burden . This study is the first to link the detrimental impact of an obesity-induced immunosuppressive microenvironment with NK cell dysfunction during an acute retroviral infection .
Triple-negative breast cancer ( TNBC ) presents significant challenges due to its aggressive behavior and lack of targeted treatments . High-resolution imaging techniques and targeted nanoparticles offer potential solutions for early detection and monitoring of TNBC . In this study , we developed and characterized solid lipid nanoparticles ( SLNs ) conjugated with a C-peptide derived from endostatin to target integrin alphavbeta , overexpressed in TNBC . These SLNs were loaded with superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles ( SPIONs ) for enhanced magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) and radiolabeled with technetium-99m ( ( 99m ) Tc ) for single-photon emission computed tomography ( SPECT ) , enabling dual-modality imaging . Extensive characterization of the nanoparticles was performed utilizing a variety of advanced techniques , including dynamic light scattering ( DLS ) , differential scanning calorimetry ( DSC ) , thermogravimetric analysis ( TGA ) , X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , vibrating sample magnetometry ( VSM ) , field-emission scanning electron microscopy ( FE-SEM ) , and atomic force microscopy ( AFM ) . This comprehensive analysis validated the successful synthesis and functionalization of the nanoparticles , along with their remarkable magnetic properties , while also revealing their distinct spherical morphology , optimal size , uniform distribution , and colloidal stability . The conjugation of C-peptide significantly enhanced the targeting efficiency in vitro , as evidenced by the MTT and receptor-binding assays in 4T1 cells using flow cytometry and MRI . In vivo studies using a 4T1 murine model demonstrated that peptide-conjugated SLNs accumulated in tumor tissues , providing superior contrast in MRI and enhanced tumor-specific localization in SPECT imaging . Biodistribution analysis confirmed reduced off-target accumulation , particularly in the liver , compared to nontargeted formulations . Collectively , C-peptide-conjugated SLNs provide a promising dual-modality imaging platform for TNBC , offering improved diagnostic accuracy and tumor targeting .
BACKGROUND : The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index is associated with the severity of metabolic-associated fatty liver disease ( MASLD ) , but its link to liver fat content is not fully understood . This study investigates the relationship between the TyG index and liver fat content and explores the role of body mass index ( BMI ) as a mediator . METHODS : This cross-sectional study analyzed data from 12 , 750 participants who underwent health screenings at the first affiliated hospital of Xinxiang Medical University between January 2018 and December The TyG index , derived as Ln [triglycerides ( mg/dl ) * fasting plasma glucose ( mg/dl ) /2] , was the independent variable , while liver fat content , measured by quantitative computed tomography ( QCT ) , was the dependent variable . Participants were grouped into tertiles based on their TyG index . Univariate and multivariate analyses , smooth curve fitting ( generalized additive models ) , threshold effect analysis , and subgroup analyses were used to assess the TyG-liver fat content relationship . BMI ' s mediating effect was also examined . RESULTS : Liver fat content increased steadily across TyG index tertiles . After adjusting for confounders , the TyG index remained independently associated with liver fat content [beta = 42 , 95% CI : 26-57] . Participants in the highest TyG tertile ( T3 ) had a 58-fold higher liver fat content compared to those in the lowest tertile ( T1 ) ( 95% CI : 37-80 , P<001 ) . A generalized additive model showed a nonlinear relationship between TyG index and liver fat content . When the TyG index </= 39 , liver fat content increased gradually ( beta = 74 , 95% CI : 50-99 , P<001 ) . Beyond this threshold , liver fat content rose sharply ( beta = 19 , 95% CI : 92-46 , P<001 ) . Subgroup analysis indicated that the association between TyG index and liver fat content was stronger at higher BMI levels ( P for interaction < 001 ) . Mediation analysis revealed that BMI accounted for 68% of the observed effect . CONCLUSION : The TyG index is positively associated with liver fat content in a nonlinear manner , with BMI amplifying this effect . These results suggest that the TyG index may be a useful marker for predicting liver fat content , and managing weight could help slow the progression of MASLD .
INTRODUCTION : This study shows that Fortified Withaferin A ( FWA , 10% w/w ) accelerates bone healing , advancing from the fibrovascular to bone remodeling stage within 12 days , compared to the typical 23-24-day healing time in rodents . FWA ( 10% w/w ) outperformed parathyroid hormone ( PTH ) in osteoclast regulation and minimized recovery time , highlighting its potential as a therapeutic agent for bone health . METHODS : FWA ( 10% w/w ) was administered orally at 125 mg . kg ( -1 ) . A transverse osteotomy model was used to assess post-natal bone regeneration . Additionally , an estrogen-deficient model was employed to evaluate the therapeutic potential of FWA ( 10% w/w ) . Bone regeneration was validated through calcein incorporation , gene expression analyses , micro-CT imaging and mechanical testing . Pharmacokinetic profiling was used to determine plasma exposure and trough concentration . RESULTS : FWA ( 10% w/w ) effectively downregulated bone-resorbing genes , promoted anabolic responses , and reduced inflammation . It enhanced post-natal bone regeneration , likely via Runx-2 activation and modulation of osteogenic genes , alongside suppression of E3 ubiquitin-ligases Smurf1 and Smurf2 , resulting in significantly enhanced callus formation and healing speed . Micro-CT revealed an enhanced callus area of ~14% within 12 days , compared to ~87% associated with normal healing . In the estrogen-deficient model , FWA ( 10% w/w ) led to ~88% bone volume fraction at 23 days , exceeding the ~80% in controls and matching PTH effects . Material stiffness showed significant gains , with average Young ' s modulus rising from ~54 +/- 03 MPa to ~63 +/- 54 MPa . Pharmacokinetic profiling indicated plasma exposure at 226 ng/ml*hr and higher trough concentration at 24 hr , contributing to optimum therapeutic effectiveness . DISCUSSION : These results demonstrate that FWA ( 10% w/w ) could significantly enhance bone mineralization and healing , facilitating an earlier transition from fibrovascular tissue to bone remodeling . The enhanced results , such as increased healing , better callus formation , and improved mechanical properties , indicate that FWA ( 10% w/w ) is a potential intervention for delayed healing , especially in osteoporotic fractures .
BACKGROUND : Dry eye disease is a common condition that causes symptoms such as dryness , irritation , and blurry vision . The pathophysiology of dry eye disease features both aqueous deficiency ( loss of aqueous tear production ) and increased evaporation ( loss of the lipid layer ) , with the latter mechanism responsible for most of the disease presentation . Ocular surface disease ( OSD ) is a prevalent condition , often linked to meibomian gland dysfunction ( MGD ) , characterized by tear film instability and symptoms like dryness and irritation . Thermal pulsation therapy , an FDA-approved treatment for MGD , uses heat and pressure to restore gland function , improving tear film stability and ocular health . Studies show its benefits last up to a year , enhancing Ocular Surface Disease Index ( OSDI ) , tear break-up time ( TBUT ) , and Meibomian Glands Yielding Secretion Score ( MGYSS ) scores . This systematic review evaluates LipiFlow compared to placebo , warm compresses , and other devices , focusing on safety , efficacy , and its impact on recovery and long-term outcomes . METHODS : A comprehensive search was performed across PubMed , MEDLINE , Embase , and Scopus until December Only randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) evaluating LipiFlow were included . The primary outcomes assessed were OSDI and TBUT , with secondary outcomes including meibomian gland expression scores , corneal fluorescein staining ( CFS ) , MGYSS , and lipid layer thickness ( LLT ) . Meta-analyses were conducted using a random-effects model , and heterogeneity was assessed using I statistics . RESULTS : Thirteen studies reported OSDI ( Std diff -076 , 95% CI -277 to 125 , p = 255 , I = 21% ) . Twelve studies evaluated MGYSS , showing significant improvement ( Std diff 449 , 95% CI 173-725 , p = 001 , I = 49% ) . TBUT results from twelve studies were not statistically significant ( Std diff 211 , 95% CI -017 to 440 , p = 8350 , I = 0% ) . CFS showed significant improvement in six studies ( Std diff -130 , 95% CI -248 to -012 , p = 031 , I = 0% ) . LLT changes were insignificant ( Std diff -071 , 95% CI -381 to 239 , p = 653 , I = 0% ) . CONCLUSION : LipiFlow effectively improves meibomian gland function , as indicated by TBUT , MGYSS , and CFS , but its impact on LLT and OSDI is not significant . The therapy is most beneficial for patients with severe baseline MGD . Further research is needed to establish long-term benefits and patient-specific outcomes .
INTRODUCTION : The incorporation of microalgae in food products is dependent on their volatile profiles , which significantly influence their organoleptic characteristics and , consequently , consumer acceptance . However , microalgae contain a myriad of volatile compounds , and their precise impact on olfactory and gustatory perception is not easily inferred . Nonetheless , volatiles imparting a fish-like odour are generally considered undesirable . To develop enzyme processes or other methods targeting malodour compounds , they must be identified and quantified in the microalgal biomass . However , no standard method allowing the extraction of all volatiles is available . METHODS : In the present study , the volatile profiles of the freshwater microalgal species Chlorella vulgaris and Arthrospira platensis and of the marine microalgal species Microchloropsis gaditana , Tetraselmis chui , and Phaeodactylum tricornutum were determined by gas chromatography . RESULTS : A total of five fractions were obtained by sequential elution of increasingly polar solvents and different methods to break the cells were tested . Additionally , the lipid composition of each species was determined and compared . DISCUSSION : The study clearly shows that extraction and analytical methods have a strong impact on the reported volatile and lipid profile of the cells .
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) is a prevalent metabolic disorder that requires effective dietary strategies for management . In this randomized , double-blind , placebo-controlled clinical trial , the effects of low-fat yogurt enriched with konjac glucomannan ( KGM ) and inulin on glycemic control , lipid profiles , anthropometric indices , and oxidative stress were investigated in patients with T2DM . Eighty participants were randomly assigned to consume either 150 g of yogurt enriched with 5 g of KGM and 5 g of inulin ( n=40 ) or plain low-fat yogurt ( n=40 ) daily for 8 weeks . The primary outcomes were fasting blood glucose and fasting insulin levels , insulin sensitivity indices [homeostasis model assessment for insulin resistance ( HOMA-IR ) and quantitative insulin sensitivity check index ( QUICKI ) ] , and glycated hemoglobin . Secondary outcomes included lipid profile [total cholesterol ( TC ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol , and triglyceride ( TG ) ] , anthropometric indices ( weight , body mass index , fat mass , skeletal muscle , and waist circumference ) , and oxidative stress markers . Compared to control group , the intervention significantly improved fasting insulin levels ( -85 microIU/mL , P=042 ) , HOMA-IR ( -89 , P=029 ) , and QUICKI ( 11 , P=032 ) . Lipid profile analysis revealed reductions in TC ( -51 mg/dL , P=049 ) and TG levels ( -0 mg/dL , P=041 ) . These findings suggest that daily consumption of yogurt fortified with KGM and inulin significantly enhances insulin sensitivity and lipid profiles in patients with T2DM over an 8-week period . This dietary intervention shows promise as a complementary strategy for T2DM management . Further studies are needed to assess the long-term outcomes , optimize doses , and elucidate the underlying mechanisms of this intervention .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : The non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio ( NHHR ) is an innovative composite lipid measure . This study aims to examine the correlation between NHHR and hyperuricemia in the middle-aged and elderly demographic in China . METHODS : This investigation comprised 4 , 639 individuals who were devoid of hyperuricemia at baseline in 2011 , utilizing data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) . We utilized multivariable logistic regression , restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) analysis , and subgroup analysis to investigate the relationship between NHHR and hyperuricemia . RESULTS : A total of 499 participants ( 76% ) experienced hyperuricemia at the 4-year follow-up . The incidence of hyperuricemia was 176% higher for participants in the highest quartile of NHHR than for those in the lowest quartile ( OR 76 , 95% CI 10-62 , p < 001 ) . The risk of hyperuricemia was 64% higher in the highest quartile of NHHR than in the lowest quartile in a fully adjusted model ( OR 64 , 95% CI 16-31 , p = 005 ) . The risk of hyperuricemia and NHHR had a linearly positive connection , according to restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) analysis ( P for non-linearity > 05 ) . Subgroup analysis showed that among women , non-smokers , and those over 60 , the relationship between NHHR and hyperuricemia was more significant . CONCLUSION : NHHR and hyperuricemia have a substantial linear positive connection , indicating that NHHR might be used as a tool for assessing hyperuricemia risk and offering valuable information for both prevention and therapy .
Familial hypercholesterolemia is a genetic disorder caused by mutations in the low- density lipoprotein receptor gene ( LDLR ) and the current treatment still focuses on symptom management . The aim of this study was to develop a lipid nanoparticle ( LNP ) - based delivery system for the CRISPR/Cas9 component in correcting LDLR gene mutations . LNPs were prepared using an ultrasonic-solvent emulsification technique by varying the surfactant : oil ratio ( SOR ) , homogenization speed and time , and sonication time . Next , the LNP surface was modified by adding DSPE-PEG-NH and polyethyleneimine . The next stage is to design the single guide RNA ( sgRNA ) and Donor DNA wildtype ( Donor DNA wt ) . This genetic material was complexed with LNP and then transfected into Hepa1-6 LDLR mt cells , an in vitro representation of cells suffering from familial hypercholesterolemia . This optimization process produced LNPs with a particle size of 6 +/- 8 nm and a polydispersity index of 34 +/- The LNP surface modification resulted in a zeta potential of +5 mV . A transmission electron microscope ( TEM ) analysis showed spherical morphology with size distribution following a regular pattern . LNP cell viability tests showed good biocompatibility at concentrations <15 mM with a half-maximal inhibitory concentration ( IC ) value of 7 mM . The dominant cellular uptake mechanism of LNP was through the clathrin-mediated endocytosis ( CME ) pathway . The Hepa1-6 LDLR mt cell model was successfully produced with the transfecting agent Lipofectamine 3000 by homology-directed repair ( HDR ) mechanism . The LNP-genetic material complex with a ratio of sgRNA : Cas9 : Donor DNA wt ( 1 : 1 : 04 ) showed an increase in LDLR gene expression of 3 +/- 2 times and LDLR protein levels reached 95 +/- 25 ng/mL on day 4 after transfection . The results of this study indicate that the developed LNP-based delivery system has the potential for gene therapy applications in familial hypercholesterolemia .
Studies have associated advanced glycation end-products ( AGEs ) and the polymorphism of the AGEs receptor ( RAGE ) gene with clinical disorders , such as diabetes , in certain ethnic groups . However , its association with type 1 diabetes mellitus ( T1DM ) in Egyptians has not yet been explored . The aim of this study was to investigate the association between the RAGE gene polymorphism rs1800625 and T1DM susceptibility in Egyptians . A case- control study was conducted with 177 T1DM patients and 177 age- and sex-matched healthy controls . Variables included glycemic markers ( fasting blood glucose ( FBG ) , postprandial blood glucose ( PBG ) , hemoglobin A1c ( HbA1c ) ) , anthropometric measurements ( waist circumference , body mass index ( BMI ) ) , lipid profile ( total cholesterol , triglycerides , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) ) , renal function ( albumin-to-creatinine ratio ( A/C ratio ) , serum creatinine ) , and history of hypertension and smoking . Genotype distribution and allele frequency of the RAGE rs1800625 polymorphism ( TT , TC , CC genotypes ; T and C alleles ) were assessed . This study identified the RAGE rs1800625 polymorphism as a significant genetic factor associated with T1DM susceptibility . The CC genotype was significantly more prevalent in patients compared to controls ( 9% vs 9% ; OR : 62 ; 95%CI : 87-97 ; p < 001 ) . Similarly , the C allele was more common in patients ( 5% vs 0% , OR : 73 ; 95%CI : 28-33 ; p < 001 ) . Multivariate analysis revealed that HbA1c ( adjusted OR ( aOR ) : 97 ; 95%CI : 00-05 ; p < 001 ) , FBG ( aOR : 96 ; 95%CI : 59-47 ; p = 010 ) , and the rs1800625 polymorphism ( aOR : 82 ; 95%CI : 146-876 ; p = 010 ) were significant predictors of T1DM . In conclusion , a genetic association was found between the RAGE gene polymorphism rs1800625 and T1DM susceptibility , with the CC genotype and C allele being more common in T1DM patients . FBG , HbA1c , and rs1800625 were identified as key predictors for T1DM , with HbA1c being the strongest . These findings highlight the importance of integrating genetic and metabolic factors in managing T1DM .
Essential oils have gained interest in wound management , with prior studies exploring combinations of hemp seed oil ( Cannabis sativa ) and other oils . However , single-oil strategies may offer simpler formulation , reducing the risk of interactions while preserving therapeutic benefits . The aim of this study was to explore the effect of hemp seed oil on accelerating wound healing , focusing on wound size reduction , epithelialization , granulation tissue formation , and vascularization in murine models . An in vivo with a post-test-only control group was conducted using 36 male Mus musculus mice ( 3-4 months , 150-250 grams ) which were divided into three groups : negative control ( NC ) , positive control ( PC , treated with chloramphenicol ointment twice daily ) , and treatment group ( TG , treated with hemp seed oil 400 , 000 mg/mL twice daily ) . Mice were euthanized on day 3 , 7 , 14 , and 21 for wound healing assessment , including macroscopic evaluation ( visual observation , wound size , and wound healing rate ) and microscopic evaluation ( epithelialization , granulation tissue formation , and vascularization ) . The present study found that the TG group demonstrated smaller wound sizes on day 14 ( p < 001 ) and day 21 ( p < 001 ) . This group also enhanced wound healing rates observed on day 14 ( p < 001 ) and day 21 ( p = 001 ) compared to PC and NC groups . Epithelialization was significantly higher in the TG group compared to PC and NC groups on day 14 ( p = 007 ) , while granulation tissue formation showed significant improvement on day 3 ( p = 045 ) , day 14 ( p = 028 ) , and day 21 ( p = 003 ) . Additionally , TG group showed significantly greater new blood vessel formation on day 21 ( p = 001 ) compared to the PC and NC groups . In conclusion , hemp seed oil demonstrated significant potential in accelerating wound healing processes suggesting a superior effect compared to chloramphenicol ointment . Therefore , hemp seed oil may serve as a promising natural and cost-effective adjunct for wound management .
Although polysaccharides have demonstrated potential in alleviating dysbiosis , the overall impact of polysaccharides on minimizing oxidative stress and organ damage in vivo has not been thoroughly investigated . The aim of this study was to investigate the comprehensive effects of polysaccharides in mitigating pesticide toxicity in animal studies , focusing on biomarkers related to oxidative stress , antioxidant activity , kidney injury , lipid profiles , liver function , and the preservation of liver and kidney weights . A systematic search was conducted across nine indexed databases , including PubMed , Cochrane CENTRAL , Taylor & Francis , Scopus , Sage , EBSCO , ProQuest , ScienceDirect , and Google Scholar . Rayyan . ai was used to screen in vivo studies that met the predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria . The quality of the selected in vivo studies was evaluated using SYRCLE ' s Risk of Bias tool , specifically designed for animal studies . Thirteen randomized animal studies , comprising 330 mice and rats , were included in the analysis . The findings revealed that polysaccharides significantly increased antioxidant levels , including catalase ( CAT ) ( p<00001 ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) ( p<00001 ) , glutathione peroxidase ( GPx ) ( p<00001 ) , and reduced glutathione ( GSH ) ( p<00001 ) . Polysaccharides also significantly reduced oxidative stress markers , such as malondialdehyde ( MDA ) ( p<00001 ) and nitric oxide ( NO ) ( p<0001 ) , as well as kidney injury biomarkers , including serum creatinine ( p<00001 ) and urea ( p<00001 ) . Additionally , improvements in lipid profiles were observed , with significant reductions in triglycerides ( TG ) ( p=04 ) and total cholesterol ( TC ) ( p<00001 ) . However , there were no significant differences in high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) ( p=28 ) and low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) ( p=32 ) levels . Polysaccharides significantly alleviate liver biomarkers , including aspartate transaminase ( AST ) ( p<0001 ) , alanine transaminase ( ALT ) ( p<005 ) , and alkaline phosphatase ( ALP ) ( p<0001 ) . Polysaccharides also contributed to the maintenance of liver weight ( p=009 ) , although no significant differences were observed in kidney weights ( p=81 ) . The study highlights that polysaccharides exert significant effects in enhancing antioxidant levels , reducing oxidative stress and organ damage biomarkers , and preserving liver weights .
The escalating global incidence of antimicrobial resistance poses a significant public health challenge . In response , exploring alternative antimicrobial agents , particularly derived from plants , becomes crucial to alleviate the selective pressure exerted by conventional antibiotics . The aim of this study was to characterize the composition of essential oil extracted from Litsea cubeba fruits and to evaluate its antimicrobial potential , along with its major compound , across solid , liquid , and vapor phases . The antimicrobial activity was assessed against a diverse range of human pathogenic Gram-positive bacteria ( n = 8 ) , Gram-negative bacteria ( n = 34 ) , filamentous fungi ( n = 2 ) , and yeast ( n = 1 ) . Disk diffusion , broth macrodilution , and vapor-phase diffusion methods were employed . This study found that all phases of L . cubeba essential oil and purified limonene exhibited broad-spectrum bactericidal and fungicidal activities ( solid-phase : inhibition zone diameter ( IZD ) 19 mm vs 14 mm ; liquid-phase : minimum inhibitory concentration ( MIC ) 0 mg/mL vs 0 mg/mL ; vapor-phase : IZD 90 mm vs 45 mm ) , with superior efficacy against filamentous fungi and yeast compared to bacteria ( solid-phase : IZD 90 mm vs 5 mm ; liquid-phase : MIC 0 mg/mL vs 06 mg/mL ; vapor-phase : IZD 90 mm vs 5 mm ; all p-values<05 ) . Among bacteria , solid-phase L . cubeba essential oil demonstrated increased activity against Staphylococcus saprophyticus and Acinetobacter Iwoffii whereas liquid-phase L . cubeba essential oil had optimal activity against Streptococcus agalactiae and Elizabethkingia meningoceptica . Notably , Trichophyton rubrum , Nannizzia gypsea , and Candida albicans displayed high susceptibility to all phases of L . cubeba essential oil . These findings highlight the potential activity of L . cubeba essential oil , across its various phases , as a promising alternative antimicrobial agent against medically significant pathogens , providing essential baseline information for further exploration and development of L . cubeba essential oil in the pursuit of combating antimicrobial resistance .
Systemic inflammation in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease ( COPD ) contributes to multimorbidity and a diminished quality of life . Probiotics , through the gut-lung axis , have shown potential to mitigate systemic inflammation ; however , their specific role in COPD- related inflammation remains unclear . The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy of probiotics in reducing serum interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) levels by enhancing butyric acid production in a murine model of COPD . An in vivo experimental study with a post-test- only control group design was conducted using 30 C57BL/6 mice randomized into five groups : non-COPD healthy control , untreated COPD , COPD treated with bronchodilator , COPD treated with probiotics , and COPD treated with a combination of bronchodilator and probiotics . COPD was induced by six weeks of cigarette smoke exposure , followed by six weeks of treatment while continuing the smoke exposure . Caecal butyric acid and serum IL-6 levels were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) and gas chromatography , respectively . Caecal butyric acid levels were lowest in untreated COPD mice ( 2+/-28 mmol/L ) and significantly increased with probiotic administration ( 6+/-43 mmol/L , p=010 ) , exceeding levels observed in healthy controls ( 9+/-05 mmol/L ) . Serum IL-6 levels were highest in COPD-induced mice ( 4+/-71 pg/mL ) and significantly reduced with administration of probiotics ( 5+/-43 pg/mL , p=035 ) , approaching levels of healthy controls ( 0+/-24 pg/mL , p=847 ) . A negative correlation was observed between butyric acid and serum IL-6 levels ( r=-420 ; p=021 ) , suggesting that higher butyric acid levels were associated with reduced systemic inflammation . These findings demonstrated that probiotics , via their metabolite butyric acid , effectively reduced systemic inflammation in a COPD mouse model , highlighting their potential as a therapeutic approach for managing COPD-related inflammation .
Current anti-breast cancer drugs have limited efficacy and often cause severe side effects , highlighting the need for bioactive agents that could overcome these limitations . Curcumin , a phenolic compound from Curcuma domestica , has antineoplastic activity but has low solubility in physiological media , while moringa oil is a key component of the oil- phase nanocarrier and also possesses anticancer properties . The aim of this study was to develop a moringa oil-based nanocarrier system containing curcumin and to analyze its anticancer effects on MDA-MB-231 cell lines , focusing on the underlying mechanisms involving B-cell lymphoma 2 ( Bcl-2 ) and Bcl-2-associated X ( Bax ) proteins . Additionally , the study investigated the side effects of the nanocarrier system following acute administration in animals . The anticancer effects were evaluated in vitro using MDA-MB-231 cell lines , while the acute toxicity assessment was conducted in healthy female Wistar rats . The nanocarrier system was formulated using moringa oil , Cremophor RH40 , and PEG Its cytotoxicity against MDA-MB-231 cells was assessed using the 3- ( 4 , 5- dimethylthiazol-2-yl ) -5- ( 3-carboxymethoxyphenyl ) -2- ( 4-sulfophenyl ) -2H-tetrazolium ( MTS ) assay . DNA fragmentation , apoptosis , and the expression of Bax and Bcl-2 proteins were analyzed via terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) assays , flow cytometry , and western blotting . Acute toxicity was further evaluated in female Wistar rats . The results demonstrated that the moringa oil-based nanocarrier system containing curcumin inhibited cell proliferation and induced apoptosis in MDA-MB-231 cells . Curcumin suppressed tumorigenesis by modulating Bcl-2 and Bax protein expression . Our data indicated that the combination of curcumin and moringa oil in a nanocarrier system had greater anticancer potential than either component alone . Moreover , administration of the nanocarrier system did not result in any clinically significant changes in body weight , behavior , or organ weight indicative of toxicological effects . No treatment-related histopathological abnormalities were observed at terminal necropsy . In conclusion , this novel combination of curcumin and moringa in nanocarrier system has better anticancer potential ; nevertheless , further studies are needed to confirm this in cancer animal models .
OBJECTIVES : Diabetes mellitus , a major cardiovascular risk factor , is a leading non-communicable disease globally . Self-management education can effectively prevent and control diabetes . We evaluated a localized health promotion model for diabetic patients through a field trial in a general hospital . METHODS : We enrolled 452 diabetic patients who visited our hospital ' s cardiology and internal medicine wards and randomly assigned them to two equal groups : intervention and control . The intervention group received initial and periodic education on diabetes management and lifestyle modification , as well as educational materials . The control group received only initial education and phone follow-ups . We measured the following outcomes after 6 and 12 months of discharge : glucose and lipid levels , smoking status , diet quality , rehospitalization rate , treatment cost , quality of life , and work absenteeism . The groups were then compared using chi-square , student t-test , and two-way repeated-measures analysis of variance . RESULTS : We enrolled 452 patients , randomized into two equal groups , and followed them for one year . Baseline demographic and clinical variables were similar between groups . The intervention group showed a significant reduction in BMI ( P = 027 ) , fasting blood glucose ( P < 001 ) , and HbA1c levels ( P = 002 ) compared to the control group . The prevalence of hypertension , smoking , sedentary lifestyle , and inappropriate diet was significantly higher in the control group ( P = 001 for all ) . The intervention group had fewer hospitalizations , work absences , and medical costs ( P < 001 , P = 001 , and P < 001 , respectively ) . No significant difference was observed in satisfaction rates between the groups . CONCLUSIONS : Health promotion interventions could improve glucose control and other health indicators and reduce costs for diabetic patients .
BACKGROUND : Hypertension , or high blood pressure , is a major risk factor for cardiovascular diseases ( CVDs ) worldwide . Variations in body mass index ( BMI ) may influence the efficacy of calcium channel blockers ( CCBs ) by affecting drug metabolism , vascular resistance , and inflammatory responses associated with adipose tissue . OBJECTIVE : This study aims to evaluate the association between BMI and the short-term efficacy of CCBs in managing hypertension among patients with CVDs over a six-month follow-up period . METHODOLOGY : This prospective observational study was conducted at the Department of General Internal Medicine , Royal Alexandra Hospital , Glasgow , UK , from June 2023 to June 2024 , enrolling 220 patients diagnosed with hypertension and at least one underlying cardiovascular condition , such as coronary artery disease , heart failure , or atrial fibrillation . Patients were categorized into BMI groups based on the World Health Organization ( WHO ) classification , and all were prescribed CCBs either as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive medications . Blood pressure was measured using an automated sphygmomanometer with follow-up ambulatory monitoring , while lipid levels were assessed via fasting blood samples . RESULTS : The study involved 220 participants , categorized into four BMI groups : underweight ( n = 40 ) , normal weight ( n = 60 ) , overweight ( n = 60 ) , and obese ( n = 60 ) . Underweight patients had a baseline systolic/diastolic blood pressure of 150/95 mmHg , which decreased to 135/85 mmHg , showing a reduction of 15/10 mmHg . Normal weight patients experienced a drop from 145/90 mmHg to 130/80 mmHg , overweight patients from 155/95 mmHg to 140/85 mmHg , and obese patients from 160/100 mmHg to 145/90 mmHg , all with the same reduction of 15 mmHg in systolic and 10 mmHg in diastolic pressure . Low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) levels decreased in all groups , with a reduction of 5 mg/dL in the underweight ( 130 to 125 mg/dL ) and normal weight ( 125 to 120 mg/dL ) groups , while the overweight ( 140 to 130 mg/dL ) and obese ( 150 to 140 mg/dL ) groups showed a greater reduction of 10 mg/dL . High-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) levels improved in all categories , increasing by 5 mg/dL in each group . LDL reduction was more pronounced in overweight and obese groups , likely due to metabolic changes associated with higher body fat . Adverse effects , including peripheral edema and dizziness , were more common in higher BMI groups , with a noticeable decline in medication adherence in obese patients . These results suggest that BMI may influence treatment efficacy , particularly in lipid regulation and the occurrence of adverse effects . CONCLUSION : BMI does not significantly affect the blood pressure-lowering efficacy of CCBs in patients with hypertension and CVDs . However , a greater reduction in LDL levels was observed in overweight and obese groups , suggesting that BMI may influence lipid metabolism differently than blood pressure regulation .
Evolocumab is a PCSK9 inhibitor designed to significantly reduce low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels . Unlike statins , which work by inhibiting 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase to reduce cholesterol synthesis in the liver , evolocumab enhances LDL receptor recycling , leading to more efficient clearance of LDL-C from the bloodstream . Compared to placebo , evolocumab shows a profound LDL-C lowering effect while also offering incremental benefit over statins , especially in high-risk patients or those with statin intolerance . In this meta-analysis , the primary focus was on lipid-lowering efficacy and cardiovascular outcomes , making direct comparisons among evolocumab , statins , and placebo essential . Evolocumab consistently demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in LDL-C and , in several large-scale trials ( such as Further Cardiovascular Outcomes Research With PCSK9 Inhibition in Subjects With Elevated Risk ( FOURIER ) ) , also showed a reduction in cardiovascular events , including myocardial infarction and stroke . It is important to specify that the most significant outcomes were both the substantial LDL-C reduction and the associated reduction in major adverse cardiovascular events ( MACE ) . For our meta-analysis , we generated three graphical models using Review Manager ( RevMan ) version 4 ( Cochrane Collaboration , Copenhagen , Denmark ) based on the selected studies . To conduct our systematic review , we extensively examined a total of 10 articles . The subgroup analyses in these studies looked at how well evolocumab worked on its own , with statins , and as an extra treatment for people who were already taking low or high doses of statins . Additionally , we compared the effectiveness of evolocumab vs . placebo in both individuals with and without cardiovascular conditions . Our findings indicated that evolocumab , whether used as monotherapy or alongside statins , demonstrated statistical significance ( p = 01 ) . Moreover , all reviewed studies reported statistically significant results ( p < 05 ) . According to our analysis , there is an urgent need for more research to build on this body of evidence and carry out larger randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) to find the best timing and dose for each patient and avoid any possible long-term side effects .
PURPOSE : To evaluate inflammatory and biochemical parameters in the serum of patients with obesity before and after bariatric surgery . MATERIALS AND METHODS : An epidemiological study of the prospective cohort type was conducted to follow patients classified with grade II or III obesity undergoing bariatric surgery . Body mass index ( BMI ) , lipid profile , C-reactive protein ( CRP ) , reactive oxygen species production using dichlorofluorescein ( DCF ) , and antioxidant defenses superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) and reduced glutathione ( GSH ) were analyzed before and 3 months after Roux-en-Y bariatric surgery . RESULTS : A paired analysis was conducted , evaluating 23 patients in the pre- and post-surgical period . A statistically significant reduction was observed after bariatric surgery in BMI ( P value<001 ) , total cholesterol ( CT ) ( P value=0006 ) , total triglycerides ( P value=0025 ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( P value=0010 ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( P value=0189 ) , CRP ( P value=0130 ) , DCF ( P value=0069 ) , and GSH ( P value<0001 ) , as well as an increase in SOD activity ( P value=0005 ) . CONCLUSION : Bariatric surgery effectively reduced inflammatory and lipid markers and reversed oxidative stress , indicating that the procedure improves the health of bariatric patients across various parameters .
BACKGROUND : A meta-analysis was conducted to determine whether the cardiovascular mortality and lipid-lowering effects of alirocumab and evolocumab are influenced by various baseline low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) levels . METHODS : We searched for literature published before June Eligible randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) included adults treated with alirocumab or evolocumab and reported LDL-C changes and cardiovascular deaths . The primary endpoints were cardiovascular mortality and percent changes in LDL-C from baseline . RESULTS : Forty-one RCTs were included in the meta-analysis . Evolocumab did not significantly affect the outcome of cardiovascular mortality whether the baseline data were greater than 100 mg/dL or less than 100 mg/dL . However , the stratified result showed that alirocumab decreased the risk of cardiovascular mortality in patients with a baseline LDL-C level of >/=100 mg/dL ( relative risk ( RR ) 45 ; 95% CI : 22 to 92 ; p = 03 ) . In terms of lipid-lowering efficacy , alirocumab ( mean difference ( MD ) -62% ; 95% CI : -70% to -54% ; p < 001 ) and evolocumab ( MD -10% ; 95% CI : -85% to -36% ; p < 001 ) yielded the highest percentage reduction in LDL-C level when baseline levels were 70-100 mg/dL , while the smallest reduction in alirocumab ( MD -26% ; 95% CI : -06% to -46% ; p < 001 ) and evolocumab ( MD -55% ; 95% CI : -47% to -63% ; p < 001 ) occurred with baseline LDL-C levels of >/=160 mg/dL . CONCLUSIONS : Alirocumab and evolocumab presented a better lipid-lowering effect when the baseline LDL-C levels were <100 mg/dL . Alirocumab was associated with a significant reduction in cardiovascular mortality at baseline LDL-C levels of >/=100 mg/dL . This finding can have significant implications for the development of personalized drug therapy . THE PROSPERO REGISTRATION : CRD42023446723 , https : //www . crd . york . ac . uk/PROSPERO/view/CRD
Helicobacter pylori ( H . pylori ) infection and atrial fibrillation ( AF ) are prevalent global health concerns that significantly impact societal and economic well-being . This study explored the potential associations between H . pylori infection and the incidence and progression of AF . Emerging research suggests that H . pylori may influence AF through various pathways , including systemic inflammation , metabolic disturbances , immune responses , and changes in the gut microbiota . These pathways provide a novel perspective on the etiology of AF , suggesting that chronic H . pylori infection could exacerbate or even initiate the arrhythmic events typical of AF . Current evidence , while preliminary , points to significant correlations , particularly through changes in markers such as C-reactive protein ( CRP ) and lipid metabolism , which are heightened in individuals with active H . pylori infection . However , the exact mechanisms and causal nature of this relationship remain elusive , with studies showing conflicting results . This inconsistency underscores the need for more comprehensive and rigorously designed clinical and experimental research to elucidate fully the interactions between H . pylori infection and AF . Understanding these connections is crucial for developing innovative treatments and management strategies targeting microbial influences in AF patients . Future research should focus on defining the role of H . pylori eradication in the clinical management of AF assessing its impact on disease progression and patient outcomes .
Aortic stenosis ( AS ) is a significant and growing concern , with a prevalence of 2-3% in individuals aged over 65 years . Moreover , with an aging global population , the prevalence is anticipated to double by Indeed , AS can arise from various etiologies , including calcific trileaflets , congenital valve abnormalities ( e . g . , bicuspid and unicuspid valves ) , and post-rheumatic , whereby each has a distinct influence that shapes the onset and progression of the disease . The normal aortic valve has a trilaminar structure comprising the fibrosa , spongiosa , and ventricularis , which work together to maintain its function . In calcific AS , the disease begins with early calcification starting in high mechanical stress areas of the valve and progresses slowly over decades , eventually leading to extensive calcification resulting in impaired valve function . This process involves mechanisms similar to atherosclerosis , including lipid deposition , chronic inflammation , and mineralization . The progression of calcific AS is strongly associated with aging , with additional risk factors including male gender , smoking , dyslipidemia , and metabolic syndrome exacerbating the condition . Conversely , congenital forms of AS , such as bicuspid and unicuspid aortic valves , result in an earlier disease onset , typically 10-20 years earlier than that observed in patients with a normal tricuspid aortic valve . Rheumatic AS , although less common in developed countries due to effective antibiotic treatments , also exhibits age-related characteristics , with an earlier onset in individuals who experienced rheumatic fever in their youth . The only curative therapies currently available are surgical and transcatheter aortic valve replacement ( TAVR ) . However , these options are sometimes too invasive for older patients ; thus , management of AS , particularly in older patients , requires a comprehensive approach that considers age , disease severity , comorbidities , frailty , and each patient ' s individual needs . Although the valves used in TAVR demonstrate promising midterm durability , long-term data are still required , especially when used in younger individuals , usually with low surgical risk . Moreover , understanding the causes and mechanisms of structural valve deterioration is crucial for appropriate treatment selections , including valve selection and pharmacological therapy , since this knowledge is essential for optimizing the lifelong management of AS .
Vulnerable or high-risk coronary plaques are usually referred to as angiographically mild to moderate lesions characterized by a large plaque burden , positive vessel remodeling , thin fibrous cap , and large necrotic/lipid core . According to several pathology studies , these plaques represent the substrate of coronary thrombosis in about two-thirds of cases ; therefore , there has been increasing interest in detecting and treating vulnerable plaques ( VPs ) . Nowadays , VP detection is possible through noninvasive and invasive imaging techniques , such as coronary computed tomography , magnetic resonance imaging , intravascular ultrasound , optical coherence tomography , and near-infrared spectroscopy . Since VPs were shown to be associated with cardiovascular events in observational studies , pharmacological and non-pharmacological strategies have been investigated to achieve a regression and/or a passivation of these plaques . In addition to pharmacological therapies , mainly focused on lipid-lowering agents , there has been a recent growing interest in interventional therapies , including coronary scaffolds , stents , and drug-coated balloons . This led to the concept of preventive percutaneous coronary intervention , which , unlike the treatment of culprit lesions in acute coronary syndromes or of ischemia-inducing stenoses , as recommended by guidelines , implies the treatment of angiographically and functionally non-significant lesions based on one or more high-risk plaque characteristics as identified by noninvasive or intracoronary imaging . This article provides an updated review of key concepts in defining and detecting VPs ; their prognostic value and available pharmacological and interventional management evidence will also be discussed .
INTRODUCTION : Xanthomatosis is an atypical pseudotumor of connective tissue characterized by the accumulation of lipid-laden histiocytes , often manifesting as encapsulated yellowish masses . It is commonly associated with familial hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) . This case report aims to present a rare instance of bilateral xanthomatosis affecting the Achilles tendons in a 42-year-old male , which underscores the importance of identifying clinical and radiological findings of this condition to facilitate early diagnosis and intervention for related musculoskeletal and metabolic disorders . CASE REPORT : A 42-year-old male presented with a 6-year history of asymptomatic swelling in the distal aspect of both legs . On examination , firm , non-tender , non-reducible , and non-mobile masses were observed without signs of inflammation , and the patient maintained full ankle joint mobility . Magnetic resonance imaging findings revealed diffusely bulky Achilles tendons with specific imaging characteristics consistent with xanthomatosis . Further evaluation of the lipid profile confirmed hypercholesterolemia and hyperlipidemia . Given the absence of pain or movement restrictions , the patient was managed conservatively with monitoring and treatment for his lipid abnormalities . CONCLUSION : This case of bilateral xanthomatosis of the Achilles tendon highlights its rarity and the importance of imaging techniques in diagnosis . Early recognition is critical , as it serves as a potential indicator of underlying hyperlipidemia , necessitating appropriate management to prevent complications . In this instance , conservative treatment was deemed suitable due to the absence of significant symptoms , emphasizing the need for ongoing observation and treatment for the identified lipid disorder .
PURPOSE : This work was the first study to show the impact of gamma- radiation on adropin levels in the serum and liver tissue of male albino rats . METHODS : Liver tissue and blood samples of rats were collected at 1 , 3 , 7 and 14 days after whole-body exposure to 5 Gy of gamma-radiation . RESULTS : Irradiated groups revealed a marked decrease in adropin associated with a significant increase in STAT3 in the serum and gene expression . Furthermore , lipid profile ( cholesterol , T . G , HDL , LDL , VLDL ) , liver function ( AST , ALT , albumin and total protein ) , complete blood count ( RBCs , WBCs , PLT , Hb , Hct% , MCH , MCV , WBCs differential ) , glucose and insulin were exhibited more noticeable alterations at all time periods of the experiment . In addition , data exhibited an obvious elevation in some inflammatory markers ( IL-6 ) and TOS accompanied by a decline in the TAC . CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE OF WORK : gamma- radiation has adverse effects on adropin that related inversely with STAT3 , leading to further damage to liver cells as well as disturbances in lipid and glucose metabolism . Therefore , adropin could be used in people exposed to radiation such radiotherapy to control the serious effects of radiation . Further study is needed to confirm these results .
BACKGROUND : This study aims to investigate serum metabolite changes in patients with early-stage ( T1 ) lung adenocarcinoma , identify potential diagnostic biomarkers , and establish an early warning mechanism for T1 stage lung adenocarcinoma . METHODS : The study included two groups : a lung adenocarcinoma group and a healthy control group . Serum samples underwent non-targeted metabolomics analysis . Total ion chromatograms ( TIC ) were generated to assess system stability . Chromatographic data were analyzed using multivariate statistical methods , including principal component analysis ( PCA ) for dimensionality reduction . Partial least squares discriminant analysis ( PLS-DA ) further validated PCA findings . Variables with VIP scores >0 in the PLS-DA model were selected , combined with ANOVA and T-tests ( P < 05 ) , to identify differentially expressed metabolites . Receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis was conducted to evaluate the diagnostic performance of selected metabolites . RESULTS : Serum metabolites significantly differed between the lung adenocarcinoma group and the healthy control group . Multivariate statistical analysis and ROC curve evaluation identified four potential diagnostic biomarkers : Cortisol , 3-Oxo-OPC4-CoA , PE-NMe ( 14 : 1 ( 9Z ) /14 : 1 ( 9Z ) ) , and Ceramide ( d18 : 1/9Z-18 : 1 ) , with AUC values of 930 , 895 , 890 , and 795 , respectively . CONCLUSION : Cortisol , 3-Oxo-OPC4-CoA , PE-NMe ( 14 : 1 ( 9Z ) /14 : 1 ( 9Z ) ) , and Ceramide ( d18 : 1/9Z-18 : 1 ) exhibit significantly altered metabolic levels in T1 stage lung adenocarcinoma patients and can serve as metabolic biomarkers . These markers may enhance the sensitivity and specificity of early diagnosis , facilitating improved detection of T1 stage lung adenocarcinoma .
This study aimed to develop gelatin/fucoidan ( GF ) and curcumin-loaded gelatin/fucoidan ( CGF ) electrospun , enhancing the shelf life of food products as an active packaging material . Simulation studies indicated the conversion of collagen-like to gelatin-like peptides at approximately 75 degrees C and occurred hydrogen bonds between gelatin , fucoidan and curcumin . Morphological findings proved that optimum GF and CGF fibers had smooth and tubular morphology . Physicochemical results indicated possible hydrogen bonds between the compounds and enhanced thermostabilities using FTIR and TGA , respectively . Regarding antibacterial and antioxidant activities , CGF fibers demonstrated higher bactericidal ( approximately 8 and 11 mm ) and antioxidative ( approximately 71 % ) effects . During the 9-week storage test at 60 degrees C , lower values of PV and TBA values were observed for CGF and GF , endowing the peanuts decelerated lipid oxidation rate . These findings suggested a prospective active packaging material based on the incorporation of a bioactive molecule into a protein-carbohydrate composite , showing favorable active food packaging properties .
Polyoxometalates ( POMs ) are metal-oxygen clusters composed of MO octahedra that have attracted considerable attention due to their remarkable antiviral , antibacterial and antitumor activities . Despite their potential , the molecular mechanisms underlying their cellular toxicity remain poorly understood . This study investigates how Anderson-Evans type polyoxotungstates ( POTs ) and polyoxomolybdates ( POMos ) interact with biological membranes by examining their effects on the zeta ( zeta ) - potential of the lipid bilayer and the size of small unilamellar liposomes of different phospholipid compositions . POTs affected the zeta-potential of neutral ( 1 , 2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine , DOPC ) and slightly negatively charged ( 1 , 2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphoethanolamine ; DOPC : DOPE ) membranes in the order [MnWO] ( 8- ) > [Ni ( OH ) WO] ( 4- ) > [TeWO] ( 6- ) . The addition of negatively charged cardiolipin ( CL ) to DOPC reduced the interaction of POTs with the membrane . An opposite effect was observed for POMos , which changed the zeta-potential of neutral and slightly negatively charged membranes in the order [Al ( OH ) MoO] ( 3- ) > [Cr ( OH ) MoO] ( 3- ) >> [Ni ( OH ) MoO] ( 4- ) . The addition of POMos increased the size of the liposomes in reverse order . The binding of [Al ( OH ) MoO] ( 3- ) to the PE-containing phospholipid membranes and the effect of ionic strength on the interaction of [Cr ( OH ) MoO] ( 3- ) with DOPC : CL liposomes could be inhibited by potassium fluoride ( KF ) . Interestingly , KF did not inhibit the interaction of other POMos with membranes as indicated by zeta-potential measurements . These results suggest that the interaction of Anderson-Evans type POMs with phospholipid membranes is influenced more by their addenda and central ions than by their total charge . By unravelling the structure-activity relationships for the different POMs , we contribute to the design of biologically active POMs for therapeutic use . FAU - Pashkovskaya , Alina A
BACKGROUND : Epilepsy and seizures are characterized by neuronal hyperexcitability and damage , influenced by metabolic dysregulation , neuroinflammation , and oxidative stress . Despite available treatments , many patients remain resistant to therapy , necessitating novel therapeutic strategies . Klotho , a neuroprotective , anti-inflammatory , and antioxidative protein has emerged as a potential modulator of epilepsy-related pathways . OBJECTIVE : This study investigates the therapeutic potential of novel physostigmine analogues in regulating Klotho expression and its downstream targets in epilepsy . METHODS : An integrative in vitro and in vivo approach was employed in PTZ-induced kindled mice . Behavioral assessments , including the Morris Water Maze ( MWM ) , Rota Rod , Black and White Box , and Tail Suspension tests were conducted . Biochemical analyses quantified serum glucose , lipid profiles , pro-inflammatory cytokines ( TNF-alpha , FOXO1 ) , and apoptotic proteins ( caspase-3 ) . Quantitative real-time PCR ( qRT-PCR ) was performed to assess Klotho and epilepsy-associated gene expression ( STAT3 , Bax , Bcl2 ) . RESULTS : The synthesized physostigmine analogues exhibited varying inhibitory effects on Klotho transcriptional activators , with Compound C ( 1 , 8-bis ( phenylsulfonyl ) -1 , 8-dihydropyrrolo [2 , 3-b] indole ) showing the weakest inhibition ( IC50 = 31 microM ) . In vivo , Compound C demonstrated anticonvulsant ( p < 05 ) , neuroprotective ( 5 mg/kg , p < 05 , 10 mg/kg , p < 01 , 20 mg/kg p < 0001 ) , antidepressant ( p < 05 ) , and anti-inflammatory ( p < 05 ) effects in PTZ-induced seizure models , improving motor function ( p < 001 ) , cognitive performance ( p < 01 ) , and reducing neuroinflammatory/metabolic markers ( p < 05 ) , while modulating STAT3 ( p < 001 ) , BAX ( p < 001 ) , Bcl2 ( p < 05 ) , and Klotho ( p < 05 ) gene expression . CONCLUSION : The therapeutic potential of 1 , 8-bis ( phenylsulfonyl ) -1 , 8-dihydropyrrolo [2 , 3-b] indole in epilepsy via Klotho modulation was observed . Targeting metabolic , inflammatory , and apoptotic pathways presents a promising strategy for epilepsy management . Further research is required to optimize clinical translation and ensure long-term efficacy and safety .
Alcohol-related liver disease ( ALD ) is a chronic liver injury caused by long-term excessive alcohol consumption , with complex and multifaceted pathological mechanisms . Research indicates that oxidative stress ( OS ) , inflammatory responses , and lipid metabolic disturbances induced by alcohol and its metabolites are primary contributors to hepatocyte injury , positioning OS as a key target in ALD treatment . The main non-pharmacological treatment for ALD is alcohol abstinence , while medical treatment primarily relies on Western pharmacological interventions . However , recent research has increasingly highlighted the potential of Chinese botanical drugs in improving histological features and modulating signaling pathways associated with OS in ALD , underscoring the therapeutic potential of traditional Chinese herb medicine . Despite these promising findings , the precise mechanisms and effects of these extracts remain incompletely understood , and potential side effects must be considered . Therefore , a comprehensive analysis of herbal extracts with therapeutic effects is essential to optimize clinical administration and ensure safe , effective treatment . This review focuses on OS as a central theme , categorizing Chinese botanical drugs into six major groups-flavonoids , polyphenols , terpenoids , alkaloids , saponins , and anthraquinones-all widely used in traditional Chinese herb medicine . The review provides an overview of their botanical characteristics and therapeutic actions in the context of ALD , offering insights into OS regulation and exploring their potential as treatments for ALD . Notably , physical exercise shares overlapping mechanisms with botanical drugs in regulating OS . Combining two strategies could offer a promising integrative treatment for ALD , though further research is needed to confirm their synergistic benefits and optimize clinical applications .
Hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) has a relatively poor prognosis and a high degree of malignancy . However , the therapeutic drugs are limited . In recent years , abnormal lipid metabolism and its important role in HCC has been reported , and emerging studies found that some formulae and active components of traditional Chinese medicine ( TCM ) can regulate abnormal lipid metabolism in HCC , showing their good application prospects . Therefore , this article summarizes the changes and the roles of lipid metabolites in HCC progression , and discusses the role of formulae and active components of TCM for the treatment of HCC based on their regulation on abnormal lipid metabolism . A deeper understanding of their relationship may help the precise use of these formulae and active components in HCC .
Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease ( NAFLD ) is the most common chronic liver disease globally , and diet plays a crucial role in its progression . While dietary fats impact NAFLD , the specific effect of cheese consumption remains unclear . This study employs a two-sample Mendelian randomization ( MR ) approach to explore the causal relationship between cheese intake and NAFLD , liver fat content , and liver fat proportion . Using summary-level data from large genome-wide association studies , we applied a two-sample MR approach . Genetic variants linked to cheese consumption served as instrumental variables , selected under strict criteria , including genome-wide significance and exclusion of pleiotropy . Robustness was ensured through various MR methods , including Inverse Variance Weighted ( IVW ) and MR-Egger . MR analysis indicated that increased cheese consumption is negatively associated with NAFLD risk ( OR = 589 , 95% CI : 387-896 , p = 014 ) . This inverse relationship also extended to liver fat content ( OR = 814 , 95% CI : 689-960 , p = 015 ) and liver fat proportion ( OR = 830 , 95% CI : 695-992 , p = 04 ) . No significant link was found between cheese intake and liver volume ( OR = 976 , 95% CI : 846-126 , p = 737 ) . Cheese intake may have a protective effect against NAFLD , potentially informing dietary management strategies . Further research is needed to confirm these findings across diverse populations .
Black-bone silky fowl ( Gallus gallus domesticus Brisson ) , medicinal food homology , utilizes to enhance human immunity . However , it remains unclear whether Black-bone silky fowl melanin ( BSFM ) , one of its bioactive components , could affect immune function . The purpose of this study is to examine the immunoregulatory effect and the underlying mechanism of BSFM in the cyclophosphamide-induced immunosuppressive mice model . The findings revealed that BSFM could significantly increase white blood cells ( WBC ) in peripheral blood ; upregulate the expression of IL-4 , TNF-alpha , and M-CSF in the plasma ; and reduce tissue damage . Mechanistically , proteomics has revealed that BSFM therapy substantially affected the quantity of 29 proteins ( Mtatp6 , Cst3 , Pglyrp1 , Igkc , and other targets ) , which mostly participate in the phosphatidylcholine catabolic process , positive regulation of type IIa hypersensitivity , lipid catabolic process , and neutrophil chemotaxis . Metabolomics indicated that BSFM reduced the levels of Octanoylglucuronide , Gly-Gly , and N-alpha-acetyl-ornithine and modulated arginine biosynthesis . Furthermore , BSFM treatment modified the composition of gut microbiota and increased the relative abundance of Prevotella , S24-7 , Olsenella , Lactococcus , hgcl-clade , Parasutterella , and Acetobacter . A significant correlation modified the composition of gut microbiota among inflammation-associated parameters , gut microbiota , and various metabolites ( DMs ) through Pearson correlation analysis . These findings suggest that BSFM holds promise in enhancing the human immune system and may serve as a complementary therapy in conventional chemotherapy .
Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease ( MAFLD ) is a complex metabolic disorder characterized by hepatic lipid accumulation and subsequent inflammation . This condition is closely linked to metabolic syndrome and obesity , with its prevalence rising due to sedentary lifestyles and high-calorie diets . The pathogenesis of MAFLD involves multiple factors , including insulin resistance , lipotoxicity , oxidative stress , and inflammatory responses . The gut microbiota plays a crucial role in MAFLD development , with dysbiosis contributing to liver inflammation through various mechanisms , such as enhanced intestinal permeability and the translocation of bacterial products like lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) . Microbial metabolites , including short-chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) and bile acids , influence hepatic function and immune responses , with potential implications for disease progression . Specific gut microbiome signatures have been identified in MAFLD patients , offering potential diagnostic and therapeutic targets . Moreover , gut-derived toxins , such as endotoxins , lipopolysaccharides , trimethylamine-N-oxide and bacterial metabolites , significantly influence liver damage and inflammation , highlighting the complex interplay between the gut microbiome and hepatic health . This review comprehensively examines the complex interplay between the gut microbiota and MAFLD , focusing on underlying pathogenic mechanisms , potential biomarkers , and emerging microbiome-targeted therapeutic strategies for disease management .
BACKGROUND : The toxic environment created by elevated ethanol levels presents significant challenges to Saccharomyces cerevisiae , leading to incomplete fermentation of the raw materials , poor flavor of the product , and even increased difficulty in post-processing of the product . Therefore , enhancing the ethanol tolerance and metabolic capacity of strains is critical for the brewing of Chinese rice wine . RESULTS : Results revealed that 1-3 mg L ( -1 ) nano-selenium significantly increased viable bacteria counts , reproduction rates and antioxidant enzyme activities , while reducing malondialdehyde levels and lipid peroxidation of S . cerevisiae . Notably , a concentration of 2 mg L ( -1 ) nano-selenium improved the cell membrane integrity and morphology under ethanol stress . Transcriptome analysis revealed that nano-selenium influenced gene expression related to cell wall repair , ribosome synthesis , carbon cycle and energy metabolism , and stress response . These changes represent a coordinated response to ethanol stress , enhancing the ability of yeast to cope with ethanol stress . CONCLUSION : Our results indicated that an optimal concentration of nano-selenium can effectively boost the metabolic capacity of S . cerevisiae , improving fermentation efficiency and product quality . ( c ) 2025 Society of Chemical Industry .
Bacterial flagellin ( flg22 ) induces rapid and permanent stomatal closure . However , its local and systemic as well as tissue- and cell-specific effects are less understood . Our results show that flg22 induced local and systemic stomatal closure in intact tomato plants , which was regulated by reactive oxygen- and nitrogen species , and also affected the photosynthetic activity of guard cells but not of mesophyll cells . Interestingly , rapid and extensive local expression of Ethylene response factor 1 was observed after exposure to flg22 , whereas the relative transcript levels of Defensin increased only after six hours , especially in systemic leaves . Following local and systemic ethylene emission already after one and six hours , jasmonic acid levels increased in the local leaves after six hours of flg22 treatment . Using immunohistochemical methods , significant defensin accumulation was found in the epidermis and stomata of flg22-treated leaves and above them . Immunogold labelling revealed significant levels of defensins in the cell wall of the mesophyll parenchyma and guard cells . Furthermore , single cell qRT-PCR confirmed that guard cells are able to synthesise defensins . It can be concluded that guard cells are not only involved in the first line of plant defense by regulating stomatal pore size , but can also defend themselves and the plant by producing and accumulating antimicrobial defensins where phytopathogens can penetrate .
Bisphenol A ( BPA ) , a widely used industrial chemical , poses environmental concerns due to its persistence and potential effects on plant systems . This study examines the impact of three BPA exposure levels on parsley plants , focusing on physiological , biochemical , and metabolomic responses . BPA exposure significantly shaped the plant ' s defense mechanisms , mainly through increased phenolic ( up to 81% ) and flavonoid ( up to 94% ) accumulation compared to the control group , which , in turn , enhanced antioxidant activity [up to 34% in 2 , 2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl ( DPPH ) and 51% in cupric reducing antioxidant capacity ( CUPRAC ) ] . A moderate correlation between phenolic content and radical scavenging ability [R : 61 for DPPH and R : 44 for 2 , 2 ' -azino-bis ( 3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid ) ( ABTS ) ] highlights phenolics ' role in mitigating BPA-induced oxidative stress . Low BPA concentrations stimulated gas exchange and photosynthesis , while higher levels ( >/=3 mg/L ) disrupted these processes , causing physiological damage , especially in stomatal conductance ( g ( s ) ) and photochemical efficiency ( F ( v ) /F ( o ) ) . Metabolomic profiling revealed concentration-dependent shifts in secondary metabolism , lipid biosynthesis , and stress-response pathways . At higher BPA levels , plants elicited defense mechanisms , such as flavonoids ( rhamnetin , luteolin-7-O-beta-D-glucronide , and quercetin-7-O-glucoside ) and anthocyanin pathways , to tackle oxidative stress , though these systems became overwhelmed . Our findings show that while parsley can initially adapt to low BPA exposure , higher concentrations compromise its physiological and metabolic balance , threatening plant health and productivity .
BACKGROUND : Fruit residues have shown antioxidant properties , prompting interest in their use in meat products . This study evaluated the antioxidant potential of acai processing residue extract in beef patties stored under refrigeration for 10 days . RESULTS : Five treatments were tested : a control with no antioxidant ( CON ) , a treatment with sodium erythorbate added ( ERY ) , and three more with acai residue extract ( AR ) at low ( L-AR ) , medium ( M-AR ) , and high ( H-AR ) concentrations . The AR reduced lipid oxidation in the beef patties . After 10 days , the control showed the highest oxidation levels , while all other treatments ( ERY , L-AR , M-AR , H-AR ) had significantly lower values , which were similar to each other . The L-AR caused the least alteration in color . CONCLUSION : The acai processing residue extract at low and medium concentrations showed significant antioxidant potential and did not compromise the color of the beef patties . ( c ) 2025 Society of Chemical Industry .
Ca ( 2+ ) ions are believed to play a crucial role in regulating lipid membrane asymmetry by modulating the activity of flippases , floppases , and scramblases . Dysregulation of Ca ( 2+ ) homeostasis , and subsequent loss of phosphatidylserine ( PS ) lipid asymmetry , is associated with physiological conditions such as blood clotting , neurodegeneration , and apoptosis . Yet , despite the prominence of Ca ( 2+ ) with regards to PS flip-flop , the specific actions of Ca ( 2+ ) are not fully understood and detailed mechanisms remain elusive . Much focus has been placed on enzymatic interactions , while the endogenous interactions of Ca ( 2+ ) ions with PS and the direct role Ca ( 2+ ) ions play on maintaining PS asymmetry have not been characterized in detail , a potentially crucial gap in understanding . In the current study the binding affinities of Ca ( 2+ ) ions to planar supported lipid membranes containing PS were measured via sum-frequency vibrational spectroscopy ( SFVS ) . Evaluation of binding affinity obtained from SFVS peak area analysis yielded an affinity of 3 x 10 M ( -1 ) . The rate of PS flip-flop was also measured in the presence and absence of Ca ( 2+ ) via SFVS , with a nearly five-fold decrease in the rate of translocation when Ca ( 2+ ) ions are present . Controls which tested Mg ( 2+ ) with PS or phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) with Ca ( 2+ ) did not show similar slowing effects , highlighting the specificity of the PS-Ca ( 2+ ) interaction . For the binary lipid mixture tested , the disparity in the PS flip-flop rate would be sufficient to produce an 82% PS asymmetry if Ca ( 2+ ) ions are localized to one side of the membrane . These studies have important implications for the non-enzymatic role Ca ( 2+ ) ions may play in the maintenance of PS asymmetry . FAU - Hymas , Preston P
Most eukaryotic cells maintain a large disparity in lipid compositions between the cytosolic and external leaflets of the plasma membrane ( PM ) bilayer . This lipid asymmetry is maintained by energy-consuming flippase enzymes that selectively drive phospholipids into the cytosolic leaflet , often against large concentration gradients . Scramblases , activated by intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) or apoptotic signaling , shuttle phospholipids down their concentration gradient to release lipid asymmetry . Such scrambling is typically evidenced by exposure of phosphatidylserine ( PS ) to the external leaflet and is associated with many physiological processes , most notably blood clotting and cell death , but also activation of immune cells . Here , we show that both PS and phosphatidylethanolamine ( PE ) appear on the PM external leaflet following immune receptor-mediated activation of mast cells . We also observe similar effects in T cells . Importantly , in contrast to wholesale release of PM asymmetry induced by calcium ionophores or apoptosis , we show that scrambling in activated immune cells is focal , with small , stable regions of surface exposed PS . These scrambled foci are calcium dependent , have lower lipid packing than their surrounding outer leaflet , and are reversible . These observations of local , transient scrambling during physiological activation of healthy immune cells suggest important roles for the lateral and transbilayer organization of membrane lipids . FAU - Sputay , Daryna
Mass spectrometry has long been utilized to characterize a variety of biomolecules such as proteins , metabolites , and lipids . Most MS-based omics studies rely on bulk analysis ; however , bulk approaches often overlook low-abundance molecules that may exert critical biological effects . Recently , multi-omics analyses have been driving an explosion of knowledge about how biomolecules interact within biological systems . In particular , spatial multi-omics has emerged as a groundbreaking approach for implementing multi-omic and multi-modal analyses . Broadly defined , spatial omics has the ability to analyze biomolecules within their native spatial contexts , offering transformative insights . This review focuses on mass spectrometry-based spatial omics , specifically matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry imaging ( MALDI-MSI ) . We will explore how MALDI-MSI , in combination with laser capture microdissection ( LCM ) and traditional liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) workflow , is advancing spatially resolved multi-omics research .
Although immunotherapy demonstrates considerable prospect in overcoming solid tumors , its clinical efficacy is limited by several factors , such as poor tumor immunogenicity , inadequate immune activation , and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment ( TME ) . To overcome these challenges , a versatile and universal immune modulation platform should be developed , and lipid nanovesicles with membrane fusion capabilities ( LNV-Fs ) have attracted great attention for this purpose . By mimicking natural membrane fusion processes , LNV-Fs enable the precise presentation of immunogenic components on tumor cell membranes , effectively activating anti-tumor immune surveillance . Similarly , LNV-Fs can equip multiple functionalities on autologous and adoptive effector cells for enhanced cell therapies . Additionally , LNV-Fs function as vaccines that elicit robust autologous anti-tumor immunity while promoting long-term immune memory . Furthermore , different LNV-Fs with powerful ability in reprogramming TME have been reported . Given the recent advancements and the absence of comprehensive reviews on this topic , a comprehensive analysis of LNV-F systems , including their structural classifications , membrane fusion mechanisms , and recent applications in cancer immunotherapy is provided . Furthermore , the future prospects of LNV-Fs , with particular emphasis on artificial intelligence-assisted design are explored . This review is intended to engage researchers from diverse interdisciplinary fields and provide valuable insights for advancing precision immunotherapy .
Electric organ discharge ( EOD ) duration in African weakly electric fish ( Mormyridae ) is the most variable waveform component between species and the basis for distinguishing species-specific signals . EOD duration is thought to be influenced by morphological and physiological features of electrocytes ( the cells that comprise the electric organ ) , but the mechanistic details are poorly understood . It has long been known that EOD duration is modulated by androgen hormones , affording an opportunity to identify gene expression correlates of EOD duration differences . We induced EOD elongation in the mormyrid Brienomyrus brachyistius by administering 17alpha-methyltestosterone ( 17alphaMT ) to three treatment groups : control ( no 17alphaMT exposure ) , T1day and T8day ( samples taken one and eight days after a single exposure to 17alphaMT , respectively ) . We then performed RNAseq , differential gene expression , and functional enrichment analysis to detect gene expression changes during EOD duration change . Our analyses indicate 44 genes whose expression changed in tandem with EOD elongation and include genes responsible for actin filaments and microtubules , extracellular matrix organization , and membrane lipid metabolism . Additionally , we found expression changes in one Na+ channel beta subunit , and five K+ voltage-gated channels . Together , these genes point toward specific cellular processes that contribute to morphological and physiological changes that contribute to EOD duration changes .
Cysteinyl leukotrienes ( CysLTs ) , as potent lipid inflammatory mediators , play a pivotal role in systemic multi-organ inflammation and inter-organ communication through interactions with their receptors ( CysLTRs ) . However , However , the function of CysLT3R is unclear and lacks a network of cross-organ metabolite interactions , and the clinical use of leukotriene receptor antagonists ( LTRAs ) has certain limitations . This review systematically synthesizes existing evidence and proposes future directions by clarifying receptor subtype specificity , optimizing targeted therapies , exploring CysLTs ' applications in neuroimmunology , and elucidating the dual roles of CysLTs in chronic inflammation . It is indicated that CysLTs activate eosinophils , mast cells , and airway tuft cells , driving type 2 immune responses and mucus secretion in the lungs , thereby exacerbating respiratory diseases such as asthma . In the nervous system , CysLTs aggravate neurodegenerative disorders like cerebral ischemia and Alzheimer ' s disease by disrupting the blood-brain barrier , promoting glial activation , and inducing neuronal damage . In the gut , CysLTs regulate anti-helminth immunity via the tuft cell-ILC2 pathway and collaborate with prostaglandin D2 ( PGD2 ) to modulate bile excretion and mucosal protection . Furthermore , CysLTs mediate communication through the gut-lung and gut-brain axes via metabolites such as succinate , contributing to cross-organ inflammatory regulation . In conclusion , this review highlights the complex roles of CysLTs in chronic inflammation , providing a theoretical foundation for precise intervention in multi-organ inflammatory diseases , which provides a theoretical framework for precision interventions in multi-organ inflammatory diseases and inspires interdisciplinary breakthroughs . FAU - Liu , Xiao-Ru
Milk exosomes ( EXOs ) enhance polyphenols ' bioavailability , but their potential for oral administration remains underexplored . Ellagic acid ( EA ) is poorly bioavailable . We investigate whether EA encapsulated in EXOs ( EXO-EA ) consumed orally improves EA bioavailability and ( or ) modulates gut microbiota . For 2 weeks , BALB/c mice received EXO , non-encapsulated EA ( NEA ) , or EXO-EA ( 27 mg EA/kg bw ) orally . Targeted and untargeted metabolomics ( UPLC-qTOF-MS ) , fecal SCFAs ( GC-MS ) , and gut microbiota ( PacBio 16S-sequencing ) were performed . Additionally , EA plasma and brain kinetics were evaluated in rats following intravenous administration of EXO-EA and NEA . Unlike NEA , EXO-EA quadrupled EA plasma levels in Sprague-Dawley rats and enabled brain detection . However , oral EXO-EA in mice failed to deliver EA systemically due to gastrointestinal instability , confirmed by in vitro digestion . Sex-dependent EXO-EA metabolomic effects were observed . Also , in males only , EXO-EA increased fecal urolithin A and SCFAs and enriched the microbiota with Christensenellaceae R7 , Ruminococcus species , and Clostridium fusiformis , among others . In females , both EXO-EA and NEA enriched the microbiota with bifidobacteria , including Bifidobacterium pseudolongum . Oral EXO-EA impacted plasma metabolome , modulated gut microbiota , and increased urolithin A and SCFA production sex-dependently . However , gastrointestinal instability , limited EA encapsulation , and low dose administered prevented systemic delivery .
Current nanoparticle-based drug delivery systems for tumor therapy face significant challenges in intratumoral penetration and cellular internalization , leading to poor therapeutic efficacy . Herein , it is demonstrated that the sequential integration of glucose oxidase ( GOx ) , catalase ( CAT ) , and urease ( URE ) onto the half surface of biotin-modified Janus nanoparticles via the chemical coupling way produces nanorobots of multifunctionality and synergistic effect ( denoted as UCGPJNRs ) . They can autonomously and powerfully move in tumor microenvironment ( TME ) by using endogenous urea as a fuel , enabling to penetrate deeper than 55 mm into tumor tissues , approximately 5-fold of the previous counterparts . The UCGPJNRs perform motion-enhanced biotin receptor-mediated endocytosis and endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi apparatus pathway-mediated exocytosis , greatly improving the internalization efficiency of tumor cells . They release NH when moving to produce selective toxicity against tumor cells in hypoxic TME . Further , they enhance the glucose consumption by approximately three times due to the motion-accelerated GOx/CAT cascade reaction , disrupting the metabolism against tumor cells on a large area . After intratumorally injecting into tumor-bearing mice , UCGPJNRs can significantly amplify the in vivo tumor growth inhibition rate through their synergistic effect . This work provides a plausible strategy to overcome current limitations in tumor treatment by anchoring multiple bioenzymes on one nanoparticle .
Obesity and metabolic dysfunction are associated with pulmonary vascular remodeling , yet molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood . We sought to study trans-right ventricular ( RV ) metabolite gradients to elucidate potential molecular pathways operant among individuals with obesity and pulmonary hypertension . In this study , 38 individuals with obesity ( mean age 58 years , 68% women , average BMI 6 kg/m ) underwent invasive right heart catheterization . Multi-site blood sampling from the superior vena cava and pulmonary artery was performed to assess trans-RV gradients , with targeted metabolite profiling using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry . We found 56 metabolites with significant trans-RV gradients ( FDR q < 05 ) , including intermediates of fatty acid oxidation , the tricarboxylic acid cycle , and nucleotide metabolism . Further , trans-RV gradients in lipid and purine metabolism were associated with BMI and related cardiometabolic traits , such as waist circumference , insulin resistance , and serum lipids . Finally , differential levels of bile acids , intermediates of lipid peroxidation , and nucleotide metabolism across the RV were associated with pulmonary hypertension . In conclusion , trans-RV metabolite gradients among individuals with obesity reveal alterations in metabolites representative of molecular pathways such as fatty acid oxidation , and others correlated with cardiometabolic traits and/or pulmonary hypertension , including orotic acid , bile acids , and acylcarnitines .
This study aims to investigate the potential effect of the water extract of fresh Rehmanniae Radix on hypercholesterolemia in mice that was induced by a high-fat and high-cholesterol diet and explore its possible mechanism from bile acid reabsorption . Male C57BL/6 mice were randomly assigned into the following groups : control , model , low-and high-dose ( 4 and 8 g . kg~ ( -1 ) , respectively ) fresh Rehmanniae Radix , and positive drug ( simvastatin , 05 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) . Other groups except the control group were fed with a high-fat and high-cholesterol diet for 6 consecutive weeks to induce hypercholesterolemia . From the 6th week , mice were administrated with corresponding drugs daily via gavage for additional 6 weeks , while continuing to be fed with a high-fat and high-cholesterol diet . Serum levels of total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , low density lipoprotein-cholesterol ( LDL-c ) , high density lipoprotein-cholesterol ( HDL-c ) , and total bile acid ( TBA ) , as well as liver TC and TG levels and fecal TBA level , were determined by commercial assay kits . Hematoxylin-eosin ( HE ) staining , oil red O staining , and transmission electron microscopy were performed to observe the pathological changes in the liver . Three livers samples were randomly selected from each of the control , model , and high-dose fresh Rehmanniae Radix groups for high-throughput transcriptome sequencing . Differentially expressed genes were mined and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis was performed to predict the key pathways and target genes of the water extract of fresh Rehmanniae Radix in the treatment of hypercholesterolemia . RT-qPCR was employed to measure the mRNA levels of cholesterol 7alpha-hydroxylase ( CYP7A1 ) and cholesterol 27alpha-hydroxylase ( CYP27A1 ) in the liver . Western blot was employed to determine the protein levels of CYP7A1 and CYP27A1 in the liver as well as farnesoid X receptor ( FXR ) , apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter ( ASBT ) , and ileum bile acid-binding protein ( I-BABP ) in the ileum . The results showed that the water extract of fresh Rehmanniae Radix significantly lowered the levels of TC and TG in the serum and liver , as well as the level of LDL-c in the serum . Conversely , it elevated the level of HDL-c in the serum and TBA in feces . No significant difference was observed in the level of TBA in the serum among groups . HE staining , oil red O staining , and transmission electron microscopy showed that the water extract reduced the accumulation of lipid droplets in the liver . Further mechanism studies revealed that the water extract of fresh Rehmanniae Radix significantly down-regulated the protein levels of FXR and bile acid reabsorption-related proteins ASBT and I-BABP . Additionally , it enhanced CYP7A1 and CYP27A1 , the key enzymes involved in bile acid synthesis . Therefore , it is hypothesized that the water extract of fresh Rehmanniae Radix may exert an anti-hypercholesterolemic effect by regulating FXR/ASBT/I-BABP signaling , inhibiting bile acid reabsorption , and increasing bile acid excretion , thus facilitating the conversion of cholesterol to bile acids . FAU - Meng , Xin-Yu
To investigate the mechanism of Jianpi Qutan Formula in regulating the balance between classically activated macrophages ( M1 ) and alternatively activated macrophages ( M2 ) in atherosclerotic plaques through phosphorylation and activation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 ( STAT6 ) , thereby reducing inflammation , increasing plaque stability , and exerting anti-atherosclerosis ( AS ) effects . An AS model was established by feeding apolipoprotein E ( ApoE ) ~ ( -/- ) mice with atherosclerotic chow for 8 weeks . The ApoE~ ( -/- ) mice were randomly divided into a model group ( Mod group ) , a Jianpi Qutan Formula group ( JPQT group , 97 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) , and a Atorvastatin Calcium Tablets group ( ATO group , 3 mg . kg~ ( -1 ) ) according to a random table method , with 10 mice in each group . Additionally , 10 male C57BL/6J mice of the same age , fed with a normal diet , were set as the control group ( Con group ) . The JPQT and ATO groups received their respective treatments via oral gavage for 8 consecutive weeks , while the Con and Mod groups were administered an equivalent volume of saline . Body weight was continuously monitored , and after blood collection , total cholesterol ( TC ) and triglyceride ( TG ) levels in the serum of each group were compared . Hematoxylin-eosin ( HE ) staining and oil red O staining were used to observe plaque formation in aortic tissue . Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( ELISA ) was employed to detect the expression levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin ( IL ) -6 and IL-12 , as well as the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL- Immunofluorescence was used to detect the positive expression of aortic cluster of differentiation ( CD ) 86 and CD Western blot analysis was conducted to detect the protein expression levels of aortic inducible nitric oxide synthase ( iNOS ) , arginase 1 ( Arg1 ) , STAT6 , and p-STAT Compared to the Con group , the Mod group exhibited increased body weight and blood lipid levels , disordered aortic structure , significant AS plaque formation accompanied by extensive lipid deposition , and elevated serum levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and IL-12 , as well as elevated CD86 and iNOS protein levels . In contrast , the serum levels of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 , along with the protein expression levels of CD206 , Arg1 , and p-STAT6/STAT6 , were reduced . Compared to the Mod group , the drug intervention groups showed improvements in body weight and lipid metabolism , with a more significant improvement in aortic structure , reduced lipid accumulation , decreased serum levels of IL-6 and IL-12 , and lower CD86 and iNOS protein levels . Meanwhile , levels of IL-10 , CD206 , Arg1 , and p-STAT6/STAT6 increased . Jianpi Qutan Formula improves AS by regulating the imbalance in M1/M2 macrophage polarization , and its mechanism is likely closely related to the activation of the STAT6 signaling pathway . FAU - Han , Xiao-Meng
Based on the high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia rat model , this study aimed to evaluate the lipid-lowering effect of Arisaema Cum Bile and explore its mechanisms , providing experimental evidence for its clinical application . Biochemical analysis was used to detect serum levels of alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , and total cholesterol ( TC ) to assess the lipid-lowering activity of Arisaema Cum Bile . Additionally , 16S rDNA sequencing and metabolomics techniques were employed to jointly elucidate the lipid-lowering mechanisms of Arisaema Cum Bile . The experimental results showed that high-dose Arisaema Cum Bile ( PBA-H ) significantly reduced serum ALT , AST , LDL-C , TG , and TC levels ( P&lt ; 01 ) , and significantly increased HDL-C levels ( P&lt ; 01 ) . The effect was similar to that of fenofibrate , with no significant difference . Furthermore , Arisaema Cum Bile significantly alleviated hepatocyte ballooning and mitigated fatty degeneration in liver tissues . As indicated by 16S rDNA sequencing results , PBA-H significantly enhanced both alpha and beta diversity of the gut microbiota in the model rats , notably increasing the relative abundance of Akkermansia and Subdoligranulum species ( P&lt ; 01 ) . Liver metabolomics analysis revealed that PBA-H primarily regulated pathways involved in arachidonic acid metabolism , vitamin B_6 metabolism , and steroid biosynthesis . In summary , Arisaema Cum Bile significantly improved abnormal blood lipid levels and liver pathology induced by a high-fat diet , regulated hepatic metabolic disorders , and improved the abundance and structural composition of gut microbiota , thereby exerting its lipid-lowering effect . The findings of this study provide experimental evidence for the clinical application of Arisaema Cum Bile and the treatment of hyperlipidemia . FAU - Zhang , Peng
This article aims to study the processing methods by exploring the main chemical constituents of Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata and the toxicity-attenuating mechanisms . The relevant articles were retrieved from multiple databases with the time interval of 1960-2024 , and the chemical constituents of Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata and the toxicity-attenuating mechanisms of its processing methods were summarized . The review revealed that the chemical constituents of Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata included 32 diester-type alkaloids , 36 monoester-type alkaloids , 43 alkanolamine-type alkaloids , and 8 lipid-type alkaloids . At the same time , other chemical constituents such as water-soluble alkaloids were also studied , and their pharmacological activities were summarized . The toxicity-attenuating mechanisms of the processing methods included constituent loss , hydrolysis , ester exchange , and ion-pair action . The processing methods of Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata have developed from being traditional to modern , with simplified operation and increased retention amounts of active constituents , which have improved the efficacy of processed Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata products and have facilitated the industrial production . However , the existing processing methods of Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata cannot completely solve the problem of possible reduction in efficacy during toxicity attenuation . More toxicity-attenuating mechanisms and lipid-type alkaloids of Aconiti Lateralis Radix Praeparata should be explored , which is expected to reduce its toxicity while retaining its efficacy . FAU - Hu , Jia-Hao
This study investigates the effect and underlying mechanism of Guizhi Tongluo Tablets ( GZTL ) in treating atherosclerosis ( AS ) in a mouse model . Apolipoprotein E-knockout ( ApoE~ ( -/- ) ) mice were randomly assigned to the following groups : model , high- , medium- , and low-dose GZTL , and atorvastatin ( ATV ) , and age-matched C57BL/6J mice were selected as the control group . ApoE~ ( -/- ) mice in other groups except the control group were fed with a high-fat diet for the modeling of AS and administrated with corresponding drugs via gavage for 8 weeks . General conditions , signs of blood stasis , and body mass of mice were monitored . Aortic plaques and their stability were assessed by hematoxylin-eosin , Masson , and oil red O staining . Serum levels of total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) were measured by biochemical assays , and those of interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , and interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) were determined via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay . Apoptosis was assessed by terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling ( TUNEL ) . Single-cell RNA sequencing ( scRNA-seq ) was employed to analyze the differential expression of CD72hi macrophages ( CD72hi-Mphi ) in the aortas of AS patients and mice . The immunofluorescence assay was employed to visualize CD72hi-Mphi expression in mouse aortic plaques , and real-time fluorescence quantitative PCR was utilized to determine the mRNA levels of IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and IL-6 in the aorta . The results demonstrated that compared with the control group , the model group exhibited significant increases in body mass , aortic plaque area proportion , necrotic core area proportion , and lipid deposition , a notable decrease in collagen fiber content , and an increase in apoptosis . Additionally , the model group showcased elevated serum levels of TC , TG , LDL-C , IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and IL-6 , alongside marked upregulations in the mRNA levels of IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and IL-6 in the aorta . In comparison with the model group , the GZTL groups and the ATV group showed a reduction in body mass , and the medium-and high-dose GZTL groups and the ATV group demonstrated reductions in aortic plaque area proportion , necrotic core area proportion , and lipid deposition , an increase in collagen fiber content , and a decrease in apoptosis . Furthermore , the treatment goups showcased lowered serum levels of TC , TG , LDL-C , IL-1beta , TNF-alpha , and IL- The data of scRNA-seq revealed significantly elevated CD72hi-Mphi signaling in carotid plaques of AS patients compared with that in the normal arterial tissue . Animal experiments confirmed that CD72hi-Mphi expression , along with several pro-inflammatory cytokines , was significantly upregulated in the aortas of AS mice , which were downregulated by GZTL treatment . In conclusion , GZTL may alleviate AS by inhibiting CD72hi-Mphi activity . FAU - He , Xing-Ling
This study delves into the mechanism of total flavone of Abelmoschus manihot ( TFA ) in treating ulcerative colitis ( UC ) and depression via inhibiting M1 polarization of macrophages and reshaping intestinal flora and glycerolphospholipid metabolism . The study established a mouse model of UC and depression induced by chronic restraint stress ( CRS ) and dextran sulfate sodium ( DSS ) . The fecal microbiota transplantation ( FMT ) experiment after TFA intervention was conducted . Mice in the FMT donor group were modeled and treated , and fecal samples were taken to prepare the bacterial solution . Mice in the FMT receptor group were treated with antibiotic intervention , and then administered bacterial solution by gavage from mice in the donor group , followed by UC depression modeling . After the experiment , behavioral tests were conducted to evaluate depressive-like behaviors by measuring the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine ( 5-HT ) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor ( BDNF ) in the hippocampus of mice . The levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) , and interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) in the brain and colon tissue of mice were also measured , and the polarization status of macrophages was evaluated by measuring the mRNA levels of CD86 and CD 16S ribosomal RNA ( 16S rRNA ) sequencing technology was used to analyze changes in the intestinal flora of mice . Wide target lipidomics was used to detect serum lipid metabolite levels in mice after FMT , and correlation analysis was conducted between lipids and differential intestinal flora significantly regulated by TFA . In vitro experiments , representative glycerophospholipid metabolites and glycerophospholipid inhibitors were used to intervene in Raw7 macrophages , and the mRNA levels of TNF-alpha , IL-6 , IL-1beta , CD86 , and CD206 were detected . The results showed that TFA and FMT after intervention could significantly improve depressive-like behavior and intestinal inflammation in mice with UC and depression , significantly downregulate pro-inflammatory cytokines and CD86 mRNA expression in brain and colon tissue , inhibiting M1 polarization of macrophages , and significantly upregulate CD206 mRNA expression , promoting M2 polarization of macrophages . In addition , the high-dose group had a more significant effect . After TFA intervention , FMT significantly corrected the metabolic disorder of glycerophospholipids in mice with UC and depression , and there was a significant correlation between differential intestinal flora and glycerophospholipids . In vitro experiments showed that glycerophospholipid metabolites , especially lysophosphatidylcholine ( LPC ) , significantly upregulated pro-inflammatory cytokines and CD86 mRNA expression , promote M1 polarization of macrophages , while glycerophospholipid inhibitors had the opposite effect . The results indicate that TFA effectively treats depression and UC by correcting intestinal flora dysbiosis and reshaping glycerophospholipid metabolism , thereby inhibiting M1 polarization of macrophages . FAU - Lu , Chang-Ye
Ganoderic acid is a class of lanostane-type triterpenoids found in Ganoderma species , and is one of the most important pharmacologically active components in G . lucidum , exhibiting antioxidant , anti-neuropsychiatric , anti-tumor , and immune-enhancing properties . The content of ganoderic acid in G . lucidum is very low , and the traditional extraction process is complex , yielding minimal amounts at high cost . The biosynthetic pathway of G . lucidum triterpenoids ( GLTs ) , including the synthesis of different structural forms of ganoderic acid from lanosterol , as well as the molecular regulatory mechanisms involving key regulatory enzyme genes and their functions , are not yet fully understood . With the continuous development of synthetic biology technologies , there has been a deeper understanding of the biosynthesis and metabolic regulation pathways of ganoderic acid and its derivatives at the molecular level . Research has explored the key regulatory enzyme genes related to ganoderic acid biosynthesis and their functions . Moreover , through the optimization of synthetic biology and culture conditions , large-scale production and preparation of GLTs at the cellular level have been achieved . This paper reviews and analyzes the latest research progress on the biosynthesis pathways and metabolic regulation of GLTs , focusing on the configuration of ganoderic acid and its derivatives , the biosynthetic pathways , key enzyme genes , transcription factors related to ganoderic acid biosynthesis , signal transduction mechanisms , and factors affecting triterpenoid biotransformation . This review is expected to provide a theoretical basis and technical reference for improving the efficient production of triterpenoid pharmacological components and the exploitation and utilization of G . lucidum resources . FAU - Song , Hong-Yan
This study aims to reveal the effect and mechanism of Gentianella turkestanorum total extract ( GTI ) in ameliorating non-alcoholic steatohepatitis ( NASH ) . UPLC-Q-TOF-MS was employed to identify the chemical components in GTI . SwissTarget-Prediction , GeneCards , OMIM , and TTD were utilized to screen the targets of GTI components and NASH . The common targets shared by GTI components and NASH were filtered through the STRING database and Cytoscape 0 to identify core targets , followed by GO and KEGG enrichment analysis . AutoDock was used for molecular docking of key components with core targets . A mouse model of NASH was established with a methionine-choline-deficient high-fat diet . A 4-week drug intervention was conducted , during which mouse weight was monitored , and the liver-to-brain ratio was measured at the end . Hematoxylin-eosin staining , Sirius red staining , and oil red O staining were employed to observe the pathological changes in the liver tissue . The levels of various biomarkers , including aspartate aminotransferase ( AST ) , alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) , hydroxyproline ( HYP ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , and glutathione ( GSH ) , in the serum and liver tissue were determined . RT-qPCR was conducted to measure the mRNA levels of interleukin 1beta ( IL-1beta ) , interleukin 6 ( IL-6 ) , tumor necrosis factor alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , collagen type I alpha1 chain ( COL1A1 ) , and alpha-smooth muscle actin ( alpha-SMA ) . Western blotting was conducted to determine the protein levels of IL-1beta , IL-6 , TNF-alpha , and potential drug targets identified through network pharmacology . UPLC-Q-TOF/MS identified 581 chemical components of GTI , and 534 targets of GTI and 1 157 targets of NASH were screened out . The topological analysis of the common targets shared by GTI and NASH identified core targets such as IL-1beta , IL-6 , protein kinase B ( AKT ) , TNF , and peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma ( PPARG ) . GO and KEGG analyses indicated that the ameliorating effect of GTI on NASH was related to inflammatory responses and the phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( PI3K ) /AKT pathway . The staining results demonstrated that GTI ameliorated hepatocyte vacuolation , swelling , ballooning , and lipid accumulation in NASH mice . Compared with the model group , high doses of GTI reduced the AST , ALT , HYP , TC , and TG levels ( P&lt ; 01 ) while increasing the HDL-C , SOD , and GSH levels ( P&lt ; 01 ) . RT-qPCR results showed that GTI down-regulated the mRNA levels of IL-1beta , IL-6 , TNF-alpha , COL1A1 , and alpha-SMA ( P&lt ; 01 ) . Western blot results indicated that GTI down-regulated the protein levels of IL-1beta , IL-6 , TNF-alpha , phosphorylated PI3K ( p-PI3K ) , phosphorylated AKT ( p-AKT ) , phosphorylated inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B alpha ( p-IkappaBalpha ) , and nuclear factor kappa B ( NF-kappaB ) ( P&lt ; 01 ) . In summary , GTI ameliorates inflammation , dyslipidemia , and oxidative stress associated with NASH by regulating the PI3K/AKT/NF-kappaB signaling pathway . FAU - Dai , Wu
The purpose of this study was to clarify the effect of Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction on atherosclerosis ( AS ) injury in ApoE~ ( -/- ) mice by regulating the ferroptosis pathway . Seventy-five ApoE~ ( -/- ) mice were randomly divided into model group , low- , medium- , and high-dose of Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction groups , and evolocumab group ( n=15 ) , and 15 C57BL/6J mice were selected as the blank group . Mice in the blank group were fed with a normal diet , and those in the other groups were fed with a high-fat diet to induce AS . From the 9th week , mice in Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction groups were administrated with Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction at corresponding doses by gavage , and those in the blank group and the model group were given an equal volume of distilled water . Mice in the evolocumab group were treated with evolocumab 2 mg . kg~ ( -1 ) by subcutaneous injection every 2 weeks . After 8 weeks of continuous intervention , oil red O staining and hematoxylin-eosin ( HE ) staining were employed to observe the lipid deposition and plaque formation in the aortic root . Masson staining was used to evaluate the collagen content in the aortic root . The serum levels of total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) were determined by biochemical kits . The levels of Fe~ ( 2+ ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) , and glutathione ( GSH ) in the aorta were measured by colorimetry . The protein and mRNA levels of nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 ( Nrf2 ) , glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , solute carrier family 7 member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) , and acyl-CoA synthetase long chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) in the aorta were detected by Western blot and RT-qPCR , respectively . The expression of Nrf2 , GPX4 , and SLC7A11 was localized by immunofluorescence . The results showed that low- , medium- , and high-dose Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction reduced the plaque formation of aortic root and increased the collagen content in AS mice . At the same time , Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction improved the lipid metabolism by lowering the levels of TC , LDL-C , and TG and elevating the level of HDL-C in the serum . Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction enhanced the antioxidant capacity by elevating the levels of GSH and SOD and lowering the level of MDA in the aorta and inhibiting the accumulation of Fe~ ( 2+ ) in the aorta . In addition , Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction up-regulated the protein and mRNA levels of Nrf2 , GPX4 , and SLC7A11 , while down-regulating the protein and mRNA levels of ACSL In summary , Huotan Jiedu Tongluo Decoction can effectively alleviate AS lesions in ApoE~ ( -/- ) mice by activating the Nrf2/GPX4 pathway , reducing lipid peroxidation , and inhibiting ferroptosis . FAU - Gao , Di
This study investigates the reproductive protective effect and potential mechanism of Cistanches Herba extract ( CHE ) on a rat model of kidney-Yang deficiency induced by adenine . Rats were randomly divided into five groups : normal , model , low-dose CHE ( 6 g . kg~ ( -1 ) . d~ ( -1 ) ) , high-dose CHE ( 2 g . kg~ ( -1 ) . d~ ( -1 ) ) , and L-carnitine ( 100 mg . kg~ ( -1 ) . d~ ( -1 ) ) . The rats were administered adenine ( 200 mg . kg~ ( -1 ) . d~ ( -1 ) ) by gavage for the first 14 days to induce kidney-Yang deficiency , while simultaneously receiving drug treatment . After 14 days , the modeling was discontinued , but drug treatment continued to 49 days . The content of components in CHE was analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography . The adenine-induced kidney-Yang deficiency model was assessed through symptom characterization and measurement of testosterone ( T ) levels using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kit . Pathological damage to the testis and epididymis was evaluated based on the wet weight and performing hematoxylin-eosin staining . Sperm density and motility were measured using computer-aided sperm analysis , and sperm viability was assessed using live/dead sperm staining kits , and sperm morphology was evaluated using eosin staining , thereby determining rat sperm quality . Metabolomics was used to analyze changes in serum metabolites , enrich related metabolic pathways , and explore the mechanism of CHE in improving reproductive function damage in rats with kidney-Yang deficiency syndrome . Compared to the normal group , the model group exhibited significant kidney-Yang deficiency symptoms , reduced T levels , decreased testicular and epididymal wet weights , and significant pathological damage to the testis and epididymis . The sperm density , motility , and viability decreased , with an increased rate of sperm abnormalities . In contrast , rats treated with CHE showed marked improvements in kidney-Yang deficiency symptoms , restored T levels , alleviated pathological damage to the testis and epididymis , and improved various sperm parameters . Metabolomics results revealed 286 differential metabolites between the normal and model groups ( 191 upregulated and 95 downregulated ) . Seventy-five differential metabolites were identified between the model and low-dose CHE groups ( 21 upregulated and 54 downregulated ) . A total of 24 common differential metabolites were identified across the three groups , with 22 of these metabolites exhibiting opposite regulation trends between the two comparison groups . These metabolites were primarily involved in linoleic acid metabolism , ether lipid metabolism , and pantothenic acid and coenzyme A biosynthesis , as well as metabolites including 13-hydroperoxylinoleic acid , lysophosphatidylcholine , and pantethine . CHE can improve kidney-Yang deficiency symptoms in rats , alleviate reproductive organ damage , and enhance sperm quality . The regulation of lipid metabolism may be a potential mechanism through which CHE improves reproductive function in rats with kidney-Yang deficiency . The potential bioactive compounds of CHE include echinacoside , verbascoside , salidroside , betaine , and cistanoside A . FAU - Li , Ze-Hui
Based on the similarity of chemical constituents between Panax notoginseng flowers and rhizomes , this study investigated their lipid-lowering effects and impacts on the intestinal flora of rats . The main components of P . notoginseng flowers and rhizomes were detected by ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry ( UHPLC-Q-TOF-MS ) to compare their chemical similarities . A hyperlipidemia rat model was induced using a high-fat diet . After successful modeling , the rats were divided into the blank control group , blank administration group ( 090 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) , model group , low- ( 045 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) , medium- ( 090 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) , high-dose ( 180 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) P . notoginseng flower group , P . notoginseng rhizome group ( 270 g . kg~ ( -1 ) ) , and simvastatin group ( 900 mg . kg~ ( -1 ) ) . After modeling , the rats were given intragastric administration for 3 weeks , once daily , while their body weight was recorded regularly . Before the last administration , fresh feces were collected for analysis of changes in intestinal flora using 16S rDNA high-throughput sequencing technology . One hour after the last administration , the rats were anesthetized with 1% pentobarbital sodium , and blood was collected from the abdominal aorta . Serum biochemical indexes were detected using an automatic biochemical analyzer . Organs ( heart , liver , spleen , lung , and kidney ) were harvested , and organ index were calculated . Liver tissue pathology was assessed through HE staining and oil red O staining . The results indicated that there were 33 identical chemical constituents in P . notoginseng flowers and rhizomes , accounting for 00% of the total constituents . After treatment , high-dose P . notoginseng flower group and P . notoginseng rhizome group exhibited similar effects on body weight , serum biochemical indexes , and liver histopathological conditions . Compared with model control group , the abundance of Firmicutes and Actinobacteria increased in high-dose P . notoginseng flower and rhizome groups , while the abundance of Bacteroidetes and Thermodesulfobacteria decreased . Cluster analysis showed no significant difference between the two groups . Both P . notoginseng flowers and rhizomes possess similar chemical components and lipid-lowering effects , and they can regulate the intestinal flora imbalance caused by hyperlipidemia , indicating their potential for use in hyperlipidemia treatment . FAU - Ye , Meng
A serum metabolomics analysis method based on gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) was used to investigate the metabolic regulation mechanism of Hericium erinaceus ( H . erinaceus ) polysaccharides on radiation injury . A mouse model of radiation injury was established by ~Co-gamma irradiation . High and low dose groups of H . erinaceus polysaccharide injection were designed , and Rubiae Radix et Rhizoma extract was set as the positive control group to investigate the therapeutic effects and metabolic reaction pathways of H . erinaceus polysaccharides on radiation injury . The metabolites of serum samples were collected by GC-MS , and principal component analysis ( PCA ) was conducted to establish the metabolic profiles of each group of mice . Partial least squares discriminant analysis ( PLS-DA ) , t-test ( P&lt ; 05 ) , and variable importance in the projection ( VIP&gt ; 1 ) were used to screen out the differential metabolite . Metabolite identification and construction of related metabolic pathways and metabolic networks were achieved by using online databases such as HMDB and METLIN . The results showed that 12 differential metabolites in the serum of mice irradiated at 5 Gy that were associated with the radiation injury model , including lactic acid , alanine , urea , serine , threonine , glycerol , L-5-oxoproline , L-lysine , stearic acid , stearic acid , oleic acid , and 1-monopalmitoylglucoside . Two metabolic pathways were enriched : glycerolipid metabolism and metabolism of glycine , serine , and threonine . 18 differential metabolites in the serum of mice irradiated at 5 Gy were associated with the radiation injury model , including lactic acid , alanine , urea , L-leucine , glycerol , nonanoic acid , serine , threonine , L-5-oxoproline , phenylalanine , L-ornithine , 1 , 5-dehydroorbital , L-lysine , L-tyrosine , pectic , oleic , stearic , and cholesterol . Four metabolic pathways were enriched : phenylalanine , tyrosine , and tryptophan synthesis , phenylalanine metabolism , glyceride metabolism , and glycine , serine , and threonine metabolism . It was suggested that H . erinaceus polysaccharides could intervene in radiation injury by altering amino acid and fatty acid synthesis in mice . It was assumed that H . erinaceus polysaccharides regulated the level of metabolic pathways through lipid metabolism and amino acid metabolism , thus affecting energy metabolism and amino acid metabolism and exerting its therapeutic effect on radiation damage . FAU - Ren , Zhuo-Yan
Type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) is a prevalent metabolic and endocrine disorder . Long-term hyperglycemia can lead to severe chronic complications , imposing substantial economic burdens on both society and patients . Despite the availability of various hypoglycemic agents for clinical use , these agents often fail to meet the therapeutic needs of T2DM and its complications . Consequently , there is an urgent need for novel therapeutic strategies and drugs . Lithocarpus litseifolius ( L . litseifolius ) , commonly referred to as &quot ; cordyceps on trees&quot ; , has a long history of use in traditional medicine and can be applied in tea , sugar , and medicine . Research indicates that L . litseifolius extracts are rich in dihydrochalcones , including trilobatin , phloridzin , and phloretin , which exhibit a range of pharmacological activities , such as anti-inflammatory , antioxidant , hypoglycemic , hypolipidemic , hepatoprotective , and cardioprotective effects . These properties suggest potential applications in the treatment of T2DM and its complications . This review systematically compiled and organized the relevant literature from the past decade on dihydrochalcones ( trilobatin , phloridzin , and phloretin ) from L . litseifolius extracts . It highlighted recent research progress regarding their role in treating T2DM and its complications through mechanisms such as reducing insulin resistance , regulating glucose transport , improving glucose and lipid metabolism , modulating enzyme activity , regulating gut microbiota , and alleviating inflammation and oxidative damage . The purpose of this review is to provide a reference and basis for future research on the prevention and treatment of T2DM and its complications using dihydrochalcones ( trilobatin , phloridzin , and phloretin ) from L . litseifolius extracts . FAU - Wei , Yun-Qin
BACKGROUND : Sodium-glucose cotransporter type 2 ( SGLT2 ) inhibitors , such as dapagliflozin , are primarily used to lower glucose in type 2 diabetes . Recent studies suggest broader metabolic effects , particularly in the liver . This study explores the molecular mechanisms by which dapagliflozin influences hepatic glucose and lipid metabolism , hypothesizing that it activates the 5 ' -adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) -sirtuin 1 ( Sirt1 ) pathway to promote gluconeogenesis and reduce lipid accumulation via autophagy . METHODS : HepG2 hepatocellular carcinoma cells were treated with dapagliflozin , and Western blotting , quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction , and fluorescence microscopy were used to assess gluconeogenic enzyme expression and autophagy . In vivo , mice with liver-specific autophagy related 7 ( Atg7 ) deletion and those on a high-fat diet were used to evaluate glucose regulation , lipid metabolism , and autophagy . RESULTS : Dapagliflozin significantly increased expression of gluconeogenic enzymes like phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase ( PEPCK ) in HepG2 cells and enhanced autophagic flux , evidenced by increased light chain 3B ( LC3B ) -II levels and autophagosome formation . AMPK-Sirt1 activation was confirmed as the underlying mechanism . Additionally , dapagliflozin reduced fatty acid synthesis by suppressing enzymes such as acetyl-CoA carboxylase and fatty acid synthase , while promoting fatty acid degradation via carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1alpha ( CPT1alpha ) upregulation . In high-fat diet mice , dapagliflozin increased hepatic gluconeogenesis and reduced lipid accumulation , though serum cholesterol and triglyceride levels were unaffected . CONCLUSION : Dapagliflozin enhances hepatic gluconeogenesis and reduces steatosis by activating the AMPK-Sirt1 pathway and promoting autophagy . These findings suggest that SGLT2 inhibitors could offer therapeutic benefits for managing hepatic lipid disorders , beyond glycemic control . FAU - Lee , Si Woo
Atherosclerosis leading to cardiovascular diseases remains a dominant medical problem . In the early stages of this disease , the interaction between circulating monocytes and the endothelium is crucial . Monocytes and macrophages express scavenger receptor A ( SR-A ) , which mediates cell adhesion and subsequently uptake of oxidized low-density lipoproteins ( LDL ) . High iron stores in monocytes or macrophages are known to predispose individuals to atherosclerosis , however the reasons remain poorly understood . We hypothesized that a combination of iron and LDL may induce proatherogenic changes in circulating monocytes . Here , we treated a human monocytic cell line THP-1 with isolated LDL and/or iron . A limited uptake of native LDL , but not iron or oxidized LDL , markedly induced expression of SR-A in these cells . Both SR-AI and SR-AII isoforms were upregulated . The increased SR-A was also seen at the protein level , and LDL treatment increased cellular adhesion . The induction of SR-A by LDL was inhibited by the lysosomotropic thiol WR-1065 and by the chain-breaking lipophilic antioxidant butylated hydroxytoluene ( BHT ) . The fluorescent probe BODIPY C11 exhibited increased lipid peroxidation inside lysosomes after LDL administration . The induction of SR-A by LDL was blocked by two silencing RNAs directed against the nuclear coactivator receptor NCOA4 , the cargo receptor necessary for the autophagy of ferritin . These results may point to a new pathogenetic mechanism of early-stage atherosclerosis , in which high iron stores in circulating monocytes , through increased lysosomal lipid peroxidation , may lead to an upregulated expression of SR-A , which makes the cells more adhesive and hence more atherogenic .
Currently , emerging dynamic therapy has gradually become a frequently used strategy for treating infectious bone defects via a rise in reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) levels , which can bring about oxidative harm to bacteria . However , ROS can be generated only under conditions of exogenous energy , limited by energy penetration or dependence on the existence of internal O/HO . Thus , we designed NaSO-decorated polyetheretherketone implants activated by Fe ( 2+ ) for infected bone defects . In vitro experiments show that they generate sulfate radical ( . SO ( - ) ) and hydroxyl radical ( . OH ) without O/HO existence , effectively killing bacteria . Additionally , the released Fe ( 2+ ) enters bacteria and triggers ferroptosis-like death via lipid peroxidation . In vivo experiments show implants achieve an ideal effect of bone integration through a high-efficiency bactericidal effect and enhanced osteogenic activity . As envisioned , our proposed strategy offers a promising approach to halt refractory infection of bone tissue by autonomously catalyzing ROS storms and ferroptosis-like death , facilitating bone-defect recovery . FAU - Wang , Ziyou
OBJECTIVE : Large-scale population-based data on the association between low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) levels and the development of acromegaly are lacking . We aimed to investigate the association between different HDL-C levels and incident acromegaly . DESIGN : Retrospective Cohort study . PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENTS : Using data from the National Health Insurance Services in Korea , we enroled adults without pre-existing acromegaly , who participated in the national health screening in 2009 , were enroled and followed up until Participants were classified based on baseline HDL-C levels . Low HDL-C level was defined as HDL-C value < 40 mg/dL for men or < 50 mg/dL for women . The risk of acromegaly was also examined according to HDL-C levels in 10 mg/dL intervals . RESULTS : Among a total 9 , 876 , 423 adults without acromegaly , 459 ( 6 cases per 100 , 000 people ) participants developed acromegaly during the median follow-up period of 2 years . The risk of acromegaly was significantly higher in patients with low HDL-C ( HR 45 , 95% CI 19-78 ) compared to normal HDL-C group after adjusting for potential confounding variables , including total cholesterol levels and the use of lipid-lowering medication . Furthermore , when HDL-C levels were categorised into four groups at 10 mg/dL intervals , a dose-dependent association with acromegaly risk was observed , with the highest risk found in the low HDL-C group ( grade 4 , HR 78 , 95% CI 30-43 ) . CONCLUSION : Low HDL-C levels were independently associated with an increased risk of acromegaly .
BACKGROUND : Depression is a global health concern characterized by high incidence , disability , and disease burden . Neuroimmunity , through the secretion of inflammatory mediators and mediation of neuroinflammation , plays a significant role in depression ' s pathogenesis . However , the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood . METHODS : In this pioneering study , we employed a comprehensive multi-omics approach , integrating 2-DE proteomics , liquid chromatography mass spectrometry-based metabolomics , and real-time polymerase chain reaction ( PCR ) array , to investigate the hippocampal molecular profiles of lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced immune inflammation-related depression . This innovative approach aimed to explore the potential pathogenesis of depression by systematically integrating data across multiple molecular layers . RESULTS : Compared to the control group , we identified 81 differential proteins , 44 differential metabolites , and 4 differential mRNAs in LPS-treated mice . Integrated analysis of these multidimensional data revealed that purine metabolism and glutamate metabolism are the most significantly altered molecular pathways in LPS-induced depression . Additionally , we constructed the corresponding compound-reaction-enzyme-gene regulatory network . CONCLUSION : This study suggests that purine metabolism and glutamate metabolism may be the underlying mechanisms by which neuroinflammation regulates depression-like behaviors . Our findings confirm the important role of immune inflammation in depression and provide a new clue for the diagnosis and treatment of this disorder . Notably , the multi-omics approach employed in this study represents a pioneering effort in the field , providing unprecedented insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying depression .
BACKGROUND : Analgesics are widely used for pain management , yet their association with endocrine dysfunction remains understudied . This pharmacovigilance study analyzes endocrine-related adverse events ( AEs ) linked to analgesics , identifies high-risk populations , and explores mechanistic pathways . RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS : FAERS data ( Q1 2004 to Q3 2023 ) were analyzed via OpenVigil 1 disproportionality analysis to assess analgesic-endocrine AE associations . Risk variations were evaluated through age/gender stratification , and molecular pathways were investigated via enrichment analysis . RESULTS : Opioids exhibited the strongest endocrine associations , particularly codeine with parathyroid injury ( Reporting Odds Ratio [ROR] : 867 , 95% Confidence interval [95% CI] : 336-918 ) and hypothalamic-pituitary injury ( ROR : 197 , 95% CI : 52-722 ) , and methadone with testicular injury ( ROR : 126 , 95% CI : 446-126 ) . Flurbiprofen ( NSAIDs ) exhibited pancreatic injury risk ( ROR : 416 , 95% CI : 187-656 ) . Gabapentin/pregabalin showed no significant associations . Stratified analyses revealed elevated risks in females ( e . g . codeine-parathyroid injury : ROR = 028 vs . non-significance in males ) and in patients aged >/= 60 years . Enrichment analysis implicated dysregulated hormone-metabolic pathways underlying tissue-specific injuries and pointed to disruption of several key signaling pathways . CONCLUSIONS : Specific analgesics ( not all ) are associated with endocrine risks , particularly in females and older adults , necessitating personalized monitoring despite limited dose-response data . FAU - Liu , Qian
Diabetes is a widespread metabolic disorder that significantly affects modern society . The liver plays a vital role in metabolism ; however , hyperglycemia can induce liver damage and disrupt its normal functions . Wharton ' s jelly mesenchymal stem cells ( WJMSCs ) engineered to express the carboxyl terminus of HSP70-interacting protein ( CHIP ) have demonstrated protective effects against hyperglycemia-induced damage in various organs . Nonetheless , the potential hepatoprotective effects and underlying mechanisms of these modified stem cells in diabetic livers remain unclear . Therefore , this study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of CHIP-transfected WJMSCs in mitigating hyperglycemia-induced hepatic injury in diabetic rats and to elucidate the associated protective mechanisms . Diabetic rats received tail vein injections of WJMSCs either overexpressing or silenced for CHIP . Seven weeks post-transplantation , all rats were sacrificed , and liver tissues were harvested for histological staining and Western blot analysis . The findings indicated that CHIP-overexpressing WJMSCs significantly reversed hyperglycemia-induced liver damage , reducing tissue injury , fibrosis , and glycogen deposition . These cells also alleviated hepatic inflammation and apoptosis . Moreover , they regulated oxidative stress pathways by lowering gp91-phox , Rac1 , and phosphorylated PKCzeta levels , while enhancing phosphorylated Nrf2 and SOD-2 expression . Additionally , the modified WJMSCs suppressed STAT3 activation and downregulated FOXO3a , suggesting a role in attenuating fibrosis and triglyceride accumulation in diabetic livers . Overall , CHIP-overexpressing WJMSCs reversed hyperglycemia-induced hepatic alterations by mitigating inflammation and oxidative stress while also modulating pathways related to fibrosis and lipid metabolism . These results highlight the therapeutic potential of CHIP-modified WJMSCs in managing diabetic liver complications and offer promising avenues for future treatment strategies .
Gingerol , the key active ingredient in ginger , is known for its numerous medicinal benefits . This research sought to explore , for the first time , Gingerol ' s potential to alleviate oxidative stress and apoptosis in the hearts of rats exposed to restraint stress ( RS ) . Male albino rats were divided into four experimental groups , each comprising six rats : Group I ( Control rats ) , Group II ( Control rats given Gingerol ) , Group III ( stressed rats ) subjected to RS by being confined in restrainers for 2 hours daily for 21 days , and Group IV ( stressed rats treated with Gingerol ) . After 21 days , the rats were sacrificed , and blood samples were taken via cardiac puncture for biochemical assays of lipid peroxidation ( LPO ) , superoxide dismutase ( SOD ) , reduced glutathione ( GSH ) , and catalase ( CAT ) . Heart tissues were meticulously collected for histological ( hematoxylin and eosin staining ) and biochemical assessments of oxidative stress and inflammation markers . Gingerol treatment in stressed rats enhanced their antioxidant defenses by decreasing LPO and increasing the levels of SOD , catalase CAT and GSH . Moreover , gingerol reduced the histopathological alterations caused by restraint stress in cardiac tissues , significantly lowering tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( TNF-alpha ) , interleukin 1beta ( IL-1beta ) , and interleukin-6 ( IL-6 ) levels . These results indicate that 6-Gingerol has antioxidant and anti-apoptotic effects , which can protect the rat heart against stress-induced oxidative damage . FAU - Yang , C
Obesity and type 2 diabetes are pathologies that are difficult to control , especially in older individuals ; therefore , there is extensive research for the development of new hypoglycemic and lipid-lowering drugs , among them , insulin in diabetic patients has an immediate hypoglycemic effect . Some vanadium derivatives induce a decrease in body weight and blood concentrations of glucose , triglycerides , and cholesterol , after being administered for a few weeks in humans and in animal models with metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) , which is called ' insulin-like effect ' of vanadium compounds . The aim of this work is to analyse the immediate effects of vanadyl sulfate ( VS ) on blood glucose , triglycerides and cholesterol levels in old rats with MetS . MetS was induced in male Wistar rats by a high-fructose diet ( HFD ) for 20 weeks . Then , in week 22 , rats were treated with one dose of VS , and at minutes 0 , 15 , 30 , 60 , 90 , 120 , 150 , 180 , and 24 hours later blood samples were taken for biochemistry analysis . VS in rats with MetS causes a slight blood glucose increase in the first 30 minutes and then drops to normal concentrations without causing hypoglycemia , remaining normal for 24 hours . Insulin decreases to normal levels . Cholesterol decreases progressively from the first 15 minutes , remaining low after 24 hours , while triglycerides increase slightly during the first three hours , but after 24 hours , it has decreased . VS in rats with MetS , causes a decrease in the consumption of sugared water and food from the first 24 hours . FAU - Ortega Pacheco , D
Increased levels of myostatin , a negative regulator of skeletal muscle development , have been shown in obesity and associated with dysregulated energy metabolism . There is growing interest on dietary factors behind muscle training , that regulate circulating myostatin levels . The aim of the study was to assess the effect of weight loss after a 3-month hypocaloric diet on plasma myostatin concentration in obese patients and to examine whether the myostatin level affects the effectiveness of the hypocaloric diet . The study involved 73 obese patients using hypocaloric ( HCD ) or control normocaloric ( NCD ) diet . Body weight and composition as well as biomarkers of glucose and lipid metabolism and plasma myostatin were measured before and after 3-month diet . The use of a 3-month hypocaloric diet , without changing of physical activity , markedly reduced BMI ( -7% in HCD vs . -9% in NCD ) , body fat , influenced postprandial insulin sensitivity and improved plasma lipid profile . The dietary intervention did not influence muscle mass as well as plasma myostatin levels in the whole cohort , although the highest myostatin levels were normalized after 3 month to average values . Only the group with initially higher levels of myostatin ( >18 ng/mL ) achieved an improvement in carbohydrate metabolism . Results showed that obese patients who experienced a decrease in plasma myostatin concentration after a 3-month HCD had greater improvement in glucose metabolism , fasting and postprandial , than obese patients without reduction in circulating myostatin ( correlations of Delta myostatin with Delta fasting glucose Rho=42 , p<001 ; Delta myostatin with Delta glucose AUC OGTT Rho=33 , p=005 ) . In conclusion , increased circulating myostatin may be involved in the development of insulin resistance but does not significantly affect lipid complications in obese patients . A hypocaloric diet may only affect the highest myostatin values in obese individuals . FAU - Goralska , J
Transmembrane selective transport of metabolites controls essential biological functions . During the last two decades , artificial channels have been developed and cyclic peptides have emerged as ideal platforms for efficient ion , sugar , and nucleic acid channel translocation . Despite these tremendous developments , cyclic peptides have eluded selective water transport . Herein , we report the formation of narrow artificial beta-helical tubules with diameters ranging from 80 to 25 A that selectively control the water translocation , akin to natural aquaporin channels . The tubular assemblies resulted from the metal-driven folding and assembly of minimal heterochiral metal-binding 3-pyridyl-terminated peptides . The bent ultrashort peptide ligand coordinates with Ag ( + ) metal ions in a head-to-tail manner , which undergoes subsequent polymerization into a beta-helical tubular structure stabilized by interstrand hydrogen bonds ( H-bonds ) between the beta-strands and pi-pi staking interactions between terminal pyridyl moieties . Furthermore , sequence engineering of the heterochiral peptide and subsequent Ag ( + ) ion coordination of the tailored peptides enabled the formation of distinct synthetic double beta-barrel and artificial beta-helical tubular assemblies , with water molecules encapsulated in the hydrophilic core of the tubes . These water-encapsulated tubes were further explored as artificial water channels in lipid bilayers . Our findings suggest that such beta-helical tubular channels achieve a single-channel permeability of 10 water molecules/second/channel , which is within 1-2 orders of magnitude lower than that of aquaporins , with a rather good ability to sterically reject ions and prevent proton transport . These assemblies present significant potential for engineering efficient membranes for water purification and separation sciences . FAU - Pophali , Salil
In the present study , four different concentrations ( 7 , 4 , 8 , and 6 mg/ml ) of Terminalia arjuna ethanolic extract were chosen for antioxidant assessment and similarly four different concentrations were used based on preliminary trials to evaluate antimicrobial effects . In a 9-day storage study , three extract concentrations were added to chevon meat batter with 100 PPM BHA , alongside a control group . The extract exhibited increased antioxidant activities , including total phenolic content , % DPPH inhibition , and % ABTS inhibition . Concentration-dependent increases in antioxidant properties were observed , with the highest concentration showing significantly lower ( P < 05 ) values of lipid oxidation in tests like TBARS , peroxide value and free fatty acids . The extract-treated batter displayed lower pH and higher water activity , with significantly higher ( P < 05 ) visual sensory scores compared to the control . Moreover , the extract-treated chevon batter exhibited significantly lower ( P < 05 ) counts of spoilage microorganisms ( SPC , coliforms , psychrophilic bacteria and yeast & molds ) when compared with the control chevon batter . Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry ( GC-MS ) estimation disclosed distinctive peaks and retention times , indicating the diverse chemical composition of the extract which was responsible for its high antimicrobial and antioxidant activities . FAU - Singh , Chirag
Leukemic cells modulate the bone marrow microenvironment to enhance their survival . Lipolysis in bone marrow adipose tissue ( BMAT ) has emerged as a critical factor supporting leukemic cell survival , yet understanding its primary role in leukemia development remains limited . Fanconi anemia ( FA ) , characterized by a predisposition to acute myeloid leukemia ( AML ) and hypersensitivity to environmental toxins , is a transitional model for studying leukemic transformation . Integrated multi-omics analyses were conducted on BMAT-derived mesenchymal stem/stromal cells ( MSCs ) from healthy donors ( HD ) , AML , and FA patients . These analyses revealed intricate interactions among genes , metabolites , and lipids . Particularly noteworthy were the effects observed following the inhibition of aryl hydrocarbon receptor ( AhR ) signaling by StemRegenin1 ( SR1 ) . BMAT-MSCs showed increased expression of epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) genes in FA and AML , suggesting a potential shift towards cancer-associated fibroblasts in the dysregulated marrow microenvironment . Identification of potential circadian rhythm biomarkers ( NPAS2 , PER2 , BHLHE40 , PER3 , CIART ) in BMAT-MSCs indicates a link between related lipid metabolism genes ( e . g . , PTGS1 , PIK3R1 ) and SR1 treatment , implicating them in lipolysis processes . Dysregulation of circadian rhythm-related genes ( CIART , BHLHE40 , NPAS2 ) in AML BMAT-MSCs , along with changes in circulating lipid metabolites like palmitate suggests their role in shaping the leukemia microenvironment . Upregulation of FABP5 and CD36 suggests a novel molecular mechanism involving FABP5 in AhR-mediated circadian regulation and identifies CD36 as a potential partner for FABP5 in BMAT-MSCs . Overall , this study unveils the interplay between AhR signaling , circadian rhythm , and the leukemia microenvironment in BMAT-MSCs , offering new insights into leukemia pathogenesis and therapeutic opportunities .
LAP ( lipid accumulation products ) is a new indicator that estimates lipid overaccumulation and central obesity in our bodies . Nevertheless , the relationship of LAP with bone mineral density ( BMD ) has not been well established . This study aims to assess the association of LAP with BMD in U . S . adults . Multivariate linear regression was employed to detect the relationship of LAP with lumbar BMD in adult Americans . Subgroup and interaction tests were employed to detect the robustness of our findings . Restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) and threshold effect analysis were used to assess the nonlinear correlation of LAP with lumbar BMD . A total of 3883 participants consisted of 2117 ( 52% ) men and 1766 ( 48% ) women . The mean age of participants was 33 +/- 53 years . After adjusting all covariates , we found a negative association of ln-LAP with lumbar BMD ( beta= -011 , 95% CI : -019 , -004 ) . Threshold effect analysis identified the inflection points of The results showed no correlation to the left of the saturation point but a significant negative correlation to the right . Interaction analyses indicated that all subgroups have no effect on this association ( P > 05 ) . Our study reported a nonlinear negative association of LAP with lumbar BMD . A large LAP may be associated with reduced BMD in American adults . These findings support the clinical utility of LAP as a predictor of osteoporosis and provide valuable insights into developing early intervention strategies for osteoporosis populations .
BACKGROUND : Dietary fiber is crucial to animal productivity and health , and its dynamic utilization process is shaped by the gastrointestinal microorganisms in ruminants . However , we lack a holistic understanding of the metabolic interactions and mediators of intestinal microbes under different fiber component interventions compared with that of their rumen counterparts . Here , we applied nutritional , amplicon , metagenomic , and metabolomic approaches to compare characteristic microbiome and metabolic strategies using goat models with fast-fermentation fiber ( FF ) and slow-fermentation fiber ( SF ) dietary interventions from a whole gastrointestinal perspective . RESULTS : The SF diet selected fibrolytic bacteria Fibrobacter and Ruminococcus spp . and enriched for genes encoding for xylosidase , endoglucanase , and galactosidase in the rumen and cecum to enhance cellulose and hemicellulose utilization , which might be mediated by the enhanced microbial ATP production and cobalamin biosynthesis potentials in the rumen . The FF diet favors pectin-degrading bacteria Prevotella spp . and enriched for genes encoding for pectases ( PL1 , GH28 , and CE8 ) to improve animal growth . Subsequent SCFA patterns and metabolic pathways unveiled the favor of acetate production in the rumen and butyrate production in the cecum for SF goats . Metagenomic binning verified this distinct selection of gastrointestinal microorganisms and metabolic pathways of different fiber types ( fiber content and polysaccharide chemistry ) . CONCLUSIONS : These findings provide novel insights into the key metabolic pathways and distinctive mechanisms through which dietary fiber types benefit the host animals from the whole gastrointestinal perspective . Video Abstract .
BACKGROUND : Surgery is the preferred approach for treating endometrial cancer ( EC ) . However , the prognosis of young women undergoing surgery has not been thoroughly evaluated . This study aims to establish a prognostic nomogram for predicting overall survival ( OS ) in postoperative patients with early-onset endometrial cancer ( EOEC ) , facilitating risk stratification for high-risk patients . METHODS : Patients diagnosed with EOEC during 2004-2015 were extracted from the Surveillance , Epidemiology , and End Results ( SEER ) database . The nomogram of OS was established according to the multivariate Cox regression analyses . The prediction accuracy and clinical net benefit of the model were assessed by the concordance index ( C-index ) , receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curves , calibration plots , and decision curve analysis ( DCA ) . Additionally , external validation was performed with 230 EOEC patients who underwent primary surgical treatment at the First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical University from 2013 to RESULTS : The mean survival period in the surgical group of EOEC was 62 months ( range : 92-32 ) , compared to 00 months ( range : 05-96 ) in the non-surgical group . Compared with the non-surgical group , patients who underwent surgery had better outcomes . A total of 4345 eligible postoperative patients with EOEC were identified and enrolled in this study . Multivariate Cox analysis showed that age , race , grade , T stage , tumor size , and lymphadenectomy were significantly associated with the prognosis of EOEC , which were further incorporated to construct a nomogram . C-index and DCA showed the predictive capability and the clinical applicability of the nomogram was superior over the TNM stage and SEER stage . Furthermore , the external validation using the FAHCQMU cohort consistently demonstrated good predictive accuracy . CONCLUSIONS : Generally , we developed a novel nomogram model by comprehensively integrating multiple risk factors , which accurately predicts the clinical prognosis of EOEC patients after surgery .
BACKGROUND : Previous studies on associations between polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons ( PAHs ) and lipid profiles are limited . We investigated the associations between urinary PAH metabolites and serum lipid profiles using a representative sample of Korean adults . METHODS : This study utilized data from the Korean National Environmental Health Survey ( 2018-2020 ) ( n = 2 , 516 ) . The associations of PAH metabolites , heavy metals , and per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFASs ) , which are ubiquitous pollutants , with lipid indicators and dyslipidemia types were evaluated using linear and logistic regression models , respectively . We examined the associations between a mixture of PAH metabolites , heavy metals , and PFASs and lipid profiles using quantile g-computation analyses . RESULTS : A doubling of 1-hydroxypyrene ( 1-OHP ) concentrations was associated with higher total cholesterol ( TC ) [beta = 50 mg/dL , 95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 09 , 91] , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) ( beta = 39 mg/dL , 95% CI : 14 , 63 ) , and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( non-HDL-C ) concentrations ( beta = 13 mg/dL , 95% CI : 77 , 49 ) . A doubling of 1-OHP concentrations was also linked to higher odds of high TC [odds ratio ( OR ) = 15 , 95% CI : 02 , 30] . Additionally , 2-naphthol concentrations were associated with higher odds of high TC ( OR = 14 , 95% CI : 00 , 29 ) and high LDL-C ( OR = 27 , 95% CI : 06 , 51 ) . Lead concentrations were associated with higher levels of TC , LDL-C , non-HDL-C , and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( HDL-C ) , as well as with higher odds of high TC , high LDL-C , and high non-HDL-C . Mercury concentrations were associated with higher levels of TC , LDL-C , and non-HDL-C , and with higher odds of high TC . Several PFASs , such as perfluorooctanoic acid , perfluorononanoic acid , and perfluorodecanoic acid , were also associated with lipid profiles . A mixture of PAH metabolites , heavy metals , and PFASs was associated with higher TC , LDL-C , non-HDL-C , and HDL-C concentrations . This mixture was also linked to higher odds of high TC and high LDL-C . CONCLUSION : Concentrations of PAH metabolites , heavy metals , and PFASs were associated with unfavorable lipid profiles in the general adult population .
OBJECTIVE : To investigate the gene detection results of 2 patients with familial hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) caused by complex heterozygous variation , and to clarify the relationship between clinical manifestations and gene variation . METHODS : Two patients ( patient 1 and 2 ) with FH who visited Beijing Anzhen Hospital Affiliated to Capital Medical University in 2018 were selected as research subjects . A retrospective study method was used to collect clinical and family history data of the two patients . And 2 mL of peripheral venous blood from each of the two patients was collected , and genomic DNA extraction was performed on the blood samples . Sanger sequencing was used to validate the variant sites of the two patients detected by whole-exome sequencing ( WES ) . Pathogenicity of variants was classified based on the American College of Medical Genetics and Genomics ( ACMG ) Standards and Guidelines for the Classification of Genetic Variants ( hereinafter referred to as the " ACMG Guidelines " ) , and the impact of variant was analyzed using multiple bioinformatics tools including SIFT , PolyPhen-2 , and SWISS-MODEL . This study has been approved by Beijing Anzhen Hospital Affiliated to Capital Medical University ( Ethics No . 2024215X ) . RESULTS : Patient 1 initially presented with early-onset coronary heart disease , with initial lipid levels of serum total cholesterol ( TC ) 86 mmol/L ( normal reference value : 10~20 mmol/L ) and serum low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) 37 mmol/L ( normal reference value : 27~12 mmol/L ) on admission . Patient 1 initially underwent treatment with rosuvastatin combined with ezetimibe for one month , but the lipid-lowering effect was not significant . The lipid-lowering therapy was then adjusted to atorvastatin combined with ezetimibe and probucol . After one year of treatment , the patient developed paroxysmal chest pain symptoms . A follow-up lipid profile showed a serum TC level of 50 mmol/L and a LDL-C level of 55 mmol/L . The lipid-lowering regimen was continued , and the serum LDL-C levels were maintained between 65 and 66 mmol/L . Patient 2 was found to have an abnormally high blood lipid level and carotid artery hardening during physical examination , with an initial blood lipid level of serum TC 82 mmol/L and serum LDL-C 63 mmol/L . After receiving rosuvastatain therapy , the lipid-lowering effect was significant . WES revealed that patient 1 carried the heterozygous variants c . 1871_1873del ( p . Ile624del ) and c . 1747C>T ( p . His583Tyr ) in the LDLR gene ( NM_4 ) , while patient 2 carried the heterozygous variants c . 1747C>T ( p . His583Tyr ) in the LDLR gene and c . 6936_6937inv ( p . Ile2313Val ) in the APOB gene ( NM_000384 ) . According to the ACMG Guidelines , the LDLR gene c . 1747C>T ( p . His583Tyr ) was classified as a pathogenic variant ( PS3+PM1+PM2_supporting+PM5+PP2+PP3 ) , and c . 1871_1873del ( p . Ile624del ) was classified as a pathogenic variant ( PS3+PS4+PM2_supporting+PM1+PM4 ) ; the APOB gene c . 6936_6937inv ( p . Ile2313Val ) was classified as a variant of uncertain clinical significance ( PM2_supporting BP4 ) . CONCLUSION : Patients 1 and 2 in this study were patients with complex heterozygous variant FH , and their genotypic differences may be related to the differences in clinical serum LDL-C levels and the efficacy of hypolipidemic agents . FAU - Lian , Xiang
The analysis of single small extracellular vesicles ( sEVs ) could distinguish the heterogeneity of sEVs thus better extract tumor-related signatures . Current protocols for the analysis of single sEV rely mainly on the advanced techniques and require lengthy isolation procedures , limiting applications in clinical diagnosis . Herein , we developed a one-step procedure for rapid isolation of single sEVs from urine , along with an analytical pipeline for the diagnosis of early bladder cancer ( BCa ) . Single sEVs are isolated by an EV-imprinted gold nanohole ( EI-AuNH ) array that selectively traps individual sEVs and spatially enhances their Raman spectra . After the invalid spectral data from incomplete or absent sEVs was eliminated using Smart-Filter , a convolutional neural network model identifies the origin of the spectra and generates a digital count matrix for each patient . By integrating the digital count data of both tumor-associated and normal sEVs , our model achieves an accuracy of 37% in early diagnosis of BCa . Feature extraction using explainable AI identified nine BCa-related signatures , with noticeable reduction on cholesterol and lipids in BCa-associated sEVs . These signatures could further distinguish BCa from other cancers . Overall , the present non-invasive and highly accurate diagnosis platform may revolutionize clinical disease diagnostics through simplified single sEV isolation and advanced modeling .
Transmembrane protein 16F ( TMEM16F ) , identified as the causative gene for Scott syndrome , which causes blood coagulation disorders , is known to function as not only a scramblase that bi-directionally transports phospholipids in the lipid bilayer but also a Ca ( 2+ ) -activated ion channel with low intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) sensitivity . However , how the dual functions of TMEM16F are controlled remains poorly understood . In this study , we investigated the properties of amino acid residues in human TMEM16F involved in the linkage between phospholipid and ion transports and the regulation of their transports using flow cytometry and whole-cell patch-clamp recordings . We demonstrated that ion and phospholipid transports induced by elevation of intracellular Ca ( 2+ ) concentration were tightly coupled in human embryonic kidney HEK293T cells overexpressing wild-type TMEM16F or its mutants . Mutations of amino acid residues in the hydrophilic subunit cavity of TMEM16F indicated that both substrates were transported through its subunit cavity . Importantly , the tail current analysis suggests that conformational changes of TMEM16F by the channel gating are required for its phospholipid transport . These results suggest that ion channel activities of human TMEM16F modulate its scramblase activities . FAU - Kageyama , Teppei
AIMS : This study investigated the association of visit-to-visit lipid variability with both coronary artery calcification ( CAC ) and cardiovascular event risk among statin-naive individuals . METHODS AND RESULTS : We conducted a cross-sectional analysis of 59 879 participants whose lipid profiles were measured 4-6 times before or on the day of CAC scanning and a cohort study of 85 359 individuals who underwent at least five lipid tests with additional follow-up to identify cardiovascular events . Lipid variability was quantified using standard deviation , coefficient of variation , and variability independent of the mean ( VIM ) . Cardiovascular events were identified using self-reported coronary artery disease and stroke . Among lipid profiles , the highest quartile of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) variability ( VIM ) showed a 42-fold increased CAC score [95% confidence interval ( CI ) : 22-65] compared to the lowest quartile . Furthermore , the VIM for total cholesterol , triglyceride , and non-high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels was positively associated with CAC scores . During a median follow-up of 8 years , 664 cases of cardiovascular events were identified . Among the lipid profiles , only LDL-C variability was associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events , with a hazard ratio of 41 ( 95% CI : 13-75 ) for those with the highest VIM variability . CONCLUSION : These findings suggest that visit-to-visit lipid variability is independently associated with subclinical coronary atherosclerosis and cardiovascular risk in statin-naive individuals . Clinicians need to be aware of the potential implications of lipid variability and consider monitoring lipid fluctuations as part of a comprehensive cardiovascular risk assessment .
In rats , platelet-activating factor ( PAF ) has been reported to increase mechanical activity in various gastrointestinal smooth muscles ( SMs ) except for esophagus SM . The aim of this study was to examine whether PAF increases mechanical activity in rat esophagus longitudinal SM ( LSM ) and to compare PAF actions in esophagus LSM with those in other gastrointestinal LSMs . PAF ( 10 ( -9 ) -10 ( -6 ) M ) increased esophagus LSM mechanical activities in a concentration-dependent manner ; PAF mainly elicited basal tension increases that were almost eliminated by a PAF receptor antagonist CV-6209 ( 10 ( -5 ) M ; against 10 ( -6 ) M PAF ) . In the LSM of the gastric fundus , which is similar to esophagus LSM in that it is derived from the foregut during development , PAF ( 10 ( -6 ) M ) increased basal tension to a comparable , albeit significantly different , magnitude as in esophagus LSM . In contrast , in LSMs of the duodenum-jejunum , ileum , and ascending colon , which are derived from the midgut , and the descending colon , which is derived from the hindgut , the ability of PAF ( 10 ( -6 ) M ) to increase basal tension was less than that in esophagus and gastric fundus LSMs . Interestingly , in ascending colon LSMs , PAF ( 10 ( -6 ) M ) induced oscillatory contractions with a small increase in basal tension . PAF-induced contractions were positively correlated with the mRNA expression levels of the PAF-degrading enzymes Pafah2 ( R = 82 ) and Pafah1b3 ( R = 51 ) . These results suggest that PAF strongly stimulates mechanical activities that are mainly accompanied by basal tension increases in rat LSMs of the gastrointestinal tracts that are derived from the foregut during embryogenesis . FAU - Obara , Keisuke
BACKGROUND : The Friedewald equation , commonly used to calculate low-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( LDL-C ) , occasionally yields inaccurate estimations for very-low-density lipoprotein cholesterol , suggesting the need for an alternative method such as the Martin equation . In this study , we aimed to evaluate the discrepancies between the Friedewald and Martin equations , particularly in the context of pathogenic variants associated with familial hypercholesterolemia ( FH ) . METHODS AND RESULTS : We evaluated the discrepancies between LDL-C levels calculated using the Friedewald and Martin equations , and for the presence of pathogenic variants of FH in 53 children with hypercholesterolemia detected through universal lipid screening . Genetic testing revealed pathogenic variants of FH in 24 of the 53 children . Chi-squared tests indicated a significant difference in the presence of pathogenic variants of FH between the " Friedewald >/= Martin " and " Friedewald < Martin " groups ( chi=348 , P<001 ) . Even in 37 children with LDL-C <180 mg/dL , discrepancies between the equations were still associated with the presence of pathogenic FH variants ( Fisher ' s exact test , P=028 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Discrepancies in LDL-C levels measured by the Friedewald and Martin equations might serve as a useful predictive marker for identifying pathogenic variants of FH , especially in cases of LDL-C <180 mg/dL , which are often challenging to diagnose . FAU - Tani , Ryosuke
Insect metabolism plays a critical role in shaping reproductive physiology , offering valuable insight for pest management strategies and ecological understanding . In this study , we investigated the regulation of the lipid surface droplet protein LSD2 and its impact on lipid metabolism and male reproductive events in Sitotroga cerealella . Using ScLSD2 RNAi , we assessed it effects on energy metabolism , sperm count , motility , oviposition , and hatchability in S . cerealella adults . Our results reveal tissue-specific expression of ScLSD2 , predominantly in the fat body . Silencing ScLSD2 led to reduced mating rates , sperm motility parameters , oviposition , and hatchability , alongside alteration in energy metabolites , including decreased in lipid droplets , triglyceride and glycerol levels and increased diglyceride content . Additionally , sperm quantification revealed significant reductions in eupyrene sperm count following ScLSD2 silencing , indicating impaired reproductive function . These results show the pivotal role of LSD2 in linking lipid metabolism and reproductive physiology in S . cerealella , positioning it as a promising target for pest management strategies .
Trehalose plays a crucial role in insect energy metabolism and stress tolerance . Therefore , we investigated the physiological functions of trehalose metabolism genes , namely trehalose-6-phosphate synthase ( TPS ) , soluble trehalase ( Tre1 ) , and membrane-bound trehalase ( Tre2 ) were investigated in Hyphantria cunea using RNA interference . Silencing of TPS , Tre1 , and Tre2 genes achieved silencing efficiencies of 77 , 38 and 01 % , respectively , at 72 h post-injection . Silencing TPS increased food intake , body weight , prolonged development duration , and decreased glucose , trehalose , and glycogen levels , and pupal weight . In contrast , silencing Tre1 and Tre2 decreased food intake , body weight , glucose and glycogen levels , and pupal weight , delayed development , and increased trehalose content . Silencing TPS , Tre1 , and Tre2 caused abnormal phenotypes , such as pupal and wing deformities . Silencing TPS suppressed the expression of five genes in the chitin biosynthesis pathway and two to lipid catabolism related genes . The expression levels of two genes associated with lipid biosynthesis were upregulated , and as Tre1 and Tre2 were significantly downregulated after TPS RNAi , while UAP and CHSA expression levels were specifically affected by RNAi of TPS and Tre In female H . cunea adults , silencing TPS , Tre1 , and Tre2 genes significantly reduced the number of eggs conceived , and laid and egg hatchability . Overall , silencing TPS , Tre1 , and Tre2 genes disrupted trehalose metabolism , affecting the growth , development , and reproduction of H . cunea . These findings highlight the potential for targeting trehalose metabolism genes as an environmentally friendly pest management strategy .
Honey bees in agroecosystems face increasingly exposure to multiple stressors , such as pesticides and pathogens , making it crucial to assess their combined impacts rather than focusing on individual factors alone . This study examined the adverse effects of single exposure acetamiprid , Varroa destructor , and Nosema ceranae , both individually and in combination , on honey bee survival , midgut integrity and transcriptomic changes to understand the molecular mechanisms involved . The findings revealed that combination of acetamiprid and N . ceranae induced significant energetic stress , as evidenced by disruptions in energy metabolism . The synergistic effects of V . destructor and N . ceranae led to severe alterations in midgut histomorphology , particularly damaging the midgut epithelium . Concurrent exposure to acetamiprid and V . destructor inhibited the immune response and energy metabolism of honey bees , thereby exacerbating the vulnerability to pathogens and destabilizing their physiological equilibrium . The combination of all three stressors caused the most dramatic damage , disrupting midgut structure as well as aromatic amino acids and lipid metabolism . Our study underscored the complexity and unpredictability of stressor interactions , emphasizing the need to consider environmental context when assessing the risks of honey bee health .
Uncovering antibacterial proteins from Lactobacillus plantarum is of great theoretical and practical significance . However , given the large number of samples involved in experimental screening , traditional screening methods face huge challenges . In this study , we employed bioinformatics methods to comprehensively analyze 59 , 618 proteins in 20 species of Lactobacillus plantarum . We identified a series of antibacterial membrane proteins with unknown functions . By using the antibacterial activity prediction algorithm , the membrane protein FS26 exhibited significant antibacterial activity . We further conducted molecular dynamics simulations to explore the molecular mechanism of the membrane protein FS26 in recognizing various lipids . Our results revealed key interactions between FS26 and cardiolipin during simulations . Experimentally , we verified the antibacterial activity through the inhibition zone , the antibacterial curve , and microscopic fluorescence techniques . Collectively , our results provide new insights for the development of biological preservation .
Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome ( PRRS ) is a prevalent disease caused by porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus ( PRRSV ) . Various viruses regulate lipid metabolism to promote their replication . In this study , we investigated the regulation of the host lipid metabolism by PRRSV . We observed that PRRSV infection induced an increase in intracellular triglyceride ( TG ) and the accumulation of lipid droplets ( LDs ) . Notably , inhibiting TG synthesis with specific drugs suppressed both PRRSV replication and LD accumulation , whereas supplementation with oleic acid ( OA ) , which increases lipid content , promoted PRRSV replication . Moreover , Western blotting assay revealed a marked reduction in adipose triglyceride lipase ( ATGL ) expression upon PRRSV infection . The overexpression of ATGL inhibited the increase in intracellular TG and LD accumulation while also suppressing PRRSV replication . In contrast , the knockdown of ATGL induced an increase in intracellular TG , promoting PRRSV replication and enhancing LD accumulation . Western blotting assay indicated that PRRSV infection downregulates the expression of endogenous ATGL . Immunofluorescence and co-immunoprecipitation experiments confirmed that Nsp4 bound to the patatin-like domain of ATGL and inducing its protein degradation . Finally , we demonstrated that Nsp4 induced an increase in intracellular TG and promoted OA-induced LD accumulation , whereas its co-expression with ATGL reduced intracellular TG . In conclusion , we propose that PRRSV Nsp4 induced an increase in intracellular TG by degrading ATGL , thereby promoting PRRSV replication and LD accumulation . These findings provided new insights into the infection mechanism of PRRSV .
The nuclear pore complex ( NPC ) , a massive and highly sophisticated protein assembly , forms a channel embedded in the nuclear envelope ( NE ) of eukaryotic cells . As a critical gateway , NPC mediates the bidirectional transport of macromolecules between the cytoplasm and the nucleus . Here , we overview the structure and transport function of this protein complex , and highlight the selective barrier model of NPC transport functional modules . Nuclear membrane curvature ( NMC ) is a critical parameter for quantifying nuclear deformation . We discuss the mechanism by which NMC regulates dynamic NPC structure , function and distribution . Furthermore we highlight the role of two key factors , i . e . lipid composition and lamins distribution , in NMC and NPC dynamics while elucidating their regulatory mechanisms . The investigations on the dynamic structure and function of NPC modulated by NMC provide a new avenue for understanding the role of NPC in different pathological conditions . This knowledge could contribute to the development of novel therapeutic strategies .
Stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 ( SCD1 ) is a critical regulator of lipogenesis that catalyzes the synthesis of monounsaturated fatty acids ( MUFA ) , mainly oleate ( 18 : 1n-9 ) and palmitoleate ( 16 : 1n-7 ) from saturated fatty acids ( SFA ) , stearoyl-CoA ( 18 : 0 ) and palmitoyl-CoA ( 16 : 0 ) , respectively . Elevated SCD1 expression and its products are associated with obesity , metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease , insulin resistance , and cancer . Conversely , Scd1 deficiency diminishes de novo lipogenesis and protects mice against adiposity , hepatic steatosis , and hyperglycemia . Yet , the comprehensive impact of Scd1 deficiency on hepatic and circulating lipids remains incompletely understood . To further delineate the effects of SCD1 on lipid metabolism , we employed lipidomics on the liver from mice under a lipogenic high carbohydrate , very low-fat diet . We found that Scd1 deficiency leads to an accumulation of saturated lipids and an increase in hepatic and plasma acylcarnitines . Remarkably , transgenic replenishment of de novo oleate synthesis by human SCD5 in the liver of Scd1-deficient mice not only restored hepatic lipid desaturation levels but also attenuated acylcarnitine accumulation , highlighting the distinct role of SCD1 and oleate in regulating intracellular lipid homeostasis .
Fifty years after Bob Michell ' s visionary prediction , phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate ( PI4P ) has emerged as a central regulator of Golgi function , influencing membrane trafficking , lipid metabolism , and signaling . PI4P homeostasis is tightly controlled by phosphatidylinositol 4-kinases ( PI4Ks ) , phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins ( PITPs ) , and the phosphatase SAC1 , ensuring precise regulation across Golgi subdomains . Beyond its classical role in vesicular transport , PI4P orchestrates lipid exchange at membrane contact sites , enabling dynamic Golgi maturation and functional specialization . The interplay between PI4P , lipid transfer proteins , and Golgi adaptors underlies cargo sorting , glycosylation , and organelle architecture . Emerging evidence also highlights PI4P ' s role in oncogenesis and cellular signaling , positioning the Golgi as a critical hub beyond secretion . Yet , key questions remain regarding PI4P compartmentalization and its broader physiological impact . This review revisits PI4P ' s essential functions , integrating historical insights with recent discoveries to illuminate its pivotal role in Golgi biology and beyond .
Nitric oxide ( NO ) and derivatives play key roles in immunomodulation and blood pressure regulation . Nitrosyl ruthenium complexes are studied as vasorelaxant agents with potential applications in cardiovascular and parasitic diseases . Lipid nanoemulsions enhance their stability and bioavailability . Nanoemulsions were prepared using Pluronic F-127 or Tween 80 as surfactants and oleic acid in the oil phase , incorporating the complex cis-[Ru ( bpy ) ( SO ) ( NO ) ] ( PF ) ( RuNO ) . Two optimized formulations were selected : NanoPluNO ( Dh = 0 nm , PdI = 094 , zeta = -7 mV ) and NanoTwNO ( Dh = 0 nm , PdI = 138 , zeta = -5 mV ) , both stable for at least 90 days . The nitrosyl complex exhibited prolonged release following the Peppas-Sahlin model , suggesting anomalous mass transport . HSA studies indicated protein conformational changes , possibly linked to protein corona formation . NanoTwNO demonstrated superior vasorelaxant efficacy over free RuNO in isolated aorta from hypertensive ( SHR ) versus normotensive ( WKY ) rats . In vivo , NanoTwNO induced significant dose-dependent hypotension ( 06-8 mg/kg ) in SHR rats , whereas RuNO had only a mild effect . These findings highlight the enhanced therapeutic potential of nanoemulsified RuNO .
OBJECTIVE : This study aimed to assess whether novel anthropometric indices-Visceral Adiposity Index ( VAI ) , Conicity Index ( CI ) , and Lipid Accumulation Product ( LAP ) -could predict Cardiovascular Disease ( CVD ) risk in individuals with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ( T2DM ) . METHODS : A methodological study was conducted with 371 hospitalized T2DM patients aged 19-64 at Bandirma Education and Research Hospital . Anthropometric measurements , including waist circumference and Body Mass Index ( BMI ) , were used to calculate VAI , CI , and LAP . The 10-year CVD risk was estimated using the Systematic Coronary Risk Estimation ( SCORE ) model , and Receiver Operating Characteristic ( ROC ) curves assessed the predictive performance of the indices . RESULTS : The mean SCORE risk was significantly higher in individuals aged >/= 65 years ( p < 001 ) , with 4 % classified as high-risk . ROC analysis showed that VAI , CI , and LAP had limited discriminatory ability , with Area Under the Curve ( AUC ) values of 454 , 563 , and 468 , respectively . No significant correlation was found between these indices and the SCORE model in both age groups . CONCLUSION : VAI , CI , and LAP do not adequately predict CVD risk in T2DM patients , suggesting that traditional risk assessment methods may remain more reliable for this population .
AIMS : A very-low-dose regimen of the anti-factor Xa rivaroxaban combined with low-dose aspirin reduces vascular events more than aspirin alone in atherosclerotic patients , including those with type 2 diabetes ( T2DM ) . Given the high platelet activation in T2DM patients , we investigated whether this combination reduces platelet activation versus aspirin alone and the possible mechanisms . METHODS : Seventy-5 patients ( 12 females , aged 69 [65-72] ) , with stable atherothrombotic disease , on low-dose aspirin , participated in a randomized , cross-over , open-label , study with two arms : 4-week aspirin ( 100 mg once-daily ) followed by 4-week aspirin plus rivaroxaban ( 5 mg twice-daily ) ; 4-week aspirin plus rivaroxaban followed by 4-week aspirin . We investigated : in vivo platelet activation by urinary thromboxane A metabolite ( TXM ) , thrombin generation ( TG ) , endothelial function by urinary prostacyclin and plasma nitric oxide metabolites , lipid oxidation by urinary isoprostane , inflammation , coagulation biomarkers . RESULTS : No carryover effects were observed . Rivaroxaban plus aspirin significantly reduced urinary TXM and isoprostane versus aspirin alone ( 20% [95 %CI : 5-31 %] and 19% [12-26%] , respectively , n = 73 , p < 01 ) . At rivaroxaban ' s maximal concentration , TG velocity index and peak were reduced by 44% [37-52%] and 81%[75-87%] , respectively , versus aspirin alone . Inflammation and endothelial biomarkers were unchanged . CONCLUSIONS : Very-low-dose rivaroxaban and low-dose aspirin in T2DM patients significantly inhibit in vivo platelet function , TG and isoprostane formation . EudraCT Number : 2019-000610-
Emerging contaminants ( ECs ) are anthropogenic and naturally occurring chemicals detected in various environmental matrices , including remote regions such as Antarctica . Adamussium colbecki , an Antarctic bivalve , is an excellent bioindicator for assessing contamination in polar marine ecosystems . However , its high protein ( 10-18 % ) and lipid ( 2-10 % ) content require an effective sample pre-treatment to minimise matrix interferences during contaminant analysis . In this study , an optimised QuEChERS extraction method was developed and validated to determine ECs in A . colbecki using high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry ( HPLC-MS/MS ) . A multivariate experimental design approach was employed to improve analyte recovery ( R% ) and minimise matrix effect ( ME% ) . Initially , a Plackett-Burman screening identified the most influential factors , which were subsequently optimised using a Doehlert design to construct quadratic models for response optimisation . The final method allowed to obtain acceptable recoveries ( 46-123 % ) and satisfactory matrix effects ( 62-103 % ) for 18 ECs , confirming its suitability for complex biological matrices . The optimised protocol was then applied to A . colbecki specimens collected during Antarctic campaigns in 2001 , 2005 , 2018 , and Triclosan ( TCS ) was quantified in two samples and detected below the quantification limit in two others , while perfluorooctanoic acid ( PFOA ) and octyl-dimethyl p-aminobenzoic acid ( OD-PABA ) were identified at trace levels in 2005 samples . This study presents the first validated QuEChERS method for ECs analysis in A . colbecki , providing a reliable tool for long-term environmental monitoring and contamination assessment in the Antarctic marine ecosystem .
Cancer therapy-related cardiovascular toxicity ( CTR-CVT ) poses a major challenge in managing cancer patients , contributing significantly to morbidity and mortality among survivors . CTR-CVT includes various cardiovascular issues , such as cardiomyopathy , myocardial ischemia , arrhythmias , and vascular dysfunction , which significantly impact patient prognosis and quality of life . Metabolic reprogramming , characterized by disruptions in glucose , lipid , and amino acid metabolism , represents a shared pathophysiological feature of cancer and cardiovascular diseases ; however , the precise mechanisms underlying CTR-CVT remain inadequately understood . In recent years , strategies targeting metabolic pathways have shown promise in reducing cardiovascular risks while optimizing cancer treatment efficacy . This review systematically summarizes metabolic reprogramming characteristics in both cancer and cardiovascular diseases , analyzes how anticancer therapies induce cardiovascular toxicity through metabolic alterations , and explores emerging therapeutic strategies targeting metabolic dysregulation . By integrating current research advancements , this review aims to enhance the understanding of CTR-CVT and provide groundwork for the development of safer and more effective cancer approaches .
Anaerobic biorefining of food waste ( FW ) into volatile fatty acids ( VFAs ) is typically limited by substrate recalcitrance and acid-induced stress . In this study , co-regulation with percarbonate ( SPC ) and zero-valent iron ( ZVI ) resulted in a maximum VFAs concentration of 28 , 9 mg COD/L , compared to only 3 , 4 mg COD/L in the control . SPC/ZVI treatment facilitated FW solubilization , enhanced substrate biodegradability , and alleviated acid inhibition . These changes promoted the enrichment of functional bacteria ( e . g . , Megasphaera and Clostridium ) and stimulated key metabolic pathways and gene expression ( e . g . , fabG and por ) involved in VFAs biosynthesis . Together with the provision of bioavailable organics and improved fermentation conditions , activation of stress defense systems in functional bacteria ( e . g . , katG and kdpA ) counteracted the acid and oxidative stress in the SPC/ZVI system , thereby preserving metabolic activity for VFAs production . This study presents a dual modulation strategy to enhance FW fermentation , offering valuable insights for efficient resource recovery from FW .
The skin ' s outer barrier layer , the stratum corneum ( SC ) , is comprised of keratin-rich corneocytes , connected by proteinaceous corneodesmosomes and separated by nonpolar , lamellar lipids . The lipids are inherently anisotropic due to their lamellar organization . There is growing acceptance that this structural anisotropy carries over into transport properties including diffusive mass transport , which is consequently characterized by two diffusion coefficients , D ( parallel ) ( lip ) for lateral diffusion along the lipid lamellae and D ( perpendicular ) ( lip ) for transverse diffusion across them . Many microscopic models of SC transport have focused on D ( parallel ) ( lip ) , as it is easier to measure and intuitively important if one considers the intervening corneocytes to be impermeable " bricks . " However , the latter concept crumbles under close observation , and the weight of evidence shows that the corneocyte phase of the SC is considerably more permeable to most solutes than are the intercellular lipids . Given this finding and a plausible organization of the SC lipids at corneocyte boundaries , the ratio determines the balance of transcellular versus intercellular diffusion . Based on a detailed microscopic analysis of solute diffusion within the SC , we conclude that passive transdermal permeation is affected to only a modest degree ( within a factor of approximately 2 ) by the value of D ( parallel ) ( lip ) over the full range of values typically encountered . This statement applies to all but highly lipophilic solutes , i . e . , to solutes with logK ( oct/w ) less , similar The transverse diffusivity D ( perpendicular ) ( lip ) is a much more quantitatively influential parameter affecting macroscopically observable diffusion in the transdermal direction . Consequently , D ( perpendicular ) ( lip ) is the diffusivity that should be used in nondimensionalizing SC diffusion models to reduce computational burden . Furthermore , the analysis lends additional support to previous findings from several groups that transcellular diffusion is the dominant mechanism for passive transdermal permeation for all but the most lipophilic and the most hydrophilic solutes .
Cholesterol-loaded macrophage foam cells are a key feature of atherosclerotic plaques . Oxysterol-binding protein-related protein 2 ( ORP2 ) facilitates the transport of cholesterol from lysosomes to the plasma membrane in cultured cell lines . However , the role of ORP2 in macrophages and its involvement in atherosclerosis remain unclear . In this study , we found ORP2 expression was reduced in atherosclerotic vessels and in macrophages exposed to oxidized LDL ( ox-LDL ) . Myeloid-specific human ORP2 overexpression ( hORP2 ( MOE ) ) mice were generated and crossed with atherosclerotic-prone ApoE ( -/- ) mice , and then fed a high-fat diet ( HFD ) to induce atherosclerosis . Our results showed that myeloid-specific hORP2 overexpression significantly reduced the atherosclerotic plaque area , along with reduced lipid accumulation , necrotic core size , birefringent crystals , and macrophage presence within the plaque . Additionally , hORP2 overexpression in peritoneal macrophages ( PMCs ) let to reduced lipid accumulation and increased expression of key cholesterol efflux proteins , including LXRalpha , ABCA1 , and ABCG Furthermore , hOPR2 overexpression promoted NBD-cholesterol efflux from macrophages . To explore the underlying mechanism , we conducted co-immunoprecipitation , immunofluorescence and cytoplasmic/nuclear fractionation experiments . Our findings revealed that ORP2 interacts with LXRalpha and promotes its nuclear localization in macrophages . Moreover , the LXR antagonist GSK2033 blocked the reduction in foam cell formation and the increase in LXRalpha nuclear translocation induced by hORP2 overexpression . These findings suggest that ORP2 interacts with LXRalpha and facilitates its nuclear translocation in macrophages , leading to reduced foam cell formation and alleviation of atherosclerosis .
OBJECTIVE : Macrophage accumulation in metabolically active tissues during obesity is common in both animals and humans , but the lipid signaling mechanisms that trigger macrophage inflammation remain unclear . This study investigates the role of Ces1d , an unconventional lipase , in regulating macrophage inflammation under nutritional stress . METHODS : A myeloid-specific Ces1d knockout ( LysM-Cre-Ces1d ( floxed/floxed ) , KO ) mouse model was used for the studies . For in vitro tests , bone marrow-derived macrophages ( BMDMs ) from control ( Ces1d ( floxed/floxed ) , WT ) and KO mice were assessed for migration , polarization , and activation . For in vivo experiments , WT and KO mice were induced to obesity via a high-fat diet ( HFD ) and subjected to metabolic characterization . Adipose tissue , liver , and serum samples were analyzed histologically and biochemically . Endogenous macrophages and T cells from adipose tissue were isolated and analyzed for functional interactions by flow cytometry . RESULTS : Ces1d expression changes during the differentiation of monocytes into macrophages in both mice and humans . Loss of Ces1d causes larger lipid droplets , with increased accumulation of triacylglycerol ( TAG ) and diacylglycerol ( DAG ) , and impaired lipid signaling in KO macrophages . Lipid dysregulation in macrophages triggers pro-inflammatory activation , enhancing migration , activation , and polarization toward an M1-like phenotype . The pro-inflammatory macrophages further promote CD3+CD8+ T cell accumulation in obese adipose tissue , which contributes to worsened metabolic disorders , including more severe fatty liver , increased local inflammation in adipose tissue , and impaired systemic glucose tolerance in KO mice on a high-fat diet . CONCLUSIONS : This study demonstrates Ces1d is a crucial factor in maintaining lipid homeostasis in macrophages . Loss of Ces1d leads to metabolic dysregulation in macrophages and other immune cells during obesity .
Fat composition of milk replacer ( MR ) for calves differs from that of bovine milk fat , resulting in lower levels of butyric ( C4 : 0 ) and caproic acid ( C6 : 0 ) . These fatty acids play a critical role in the gastrointestinal and metabolic development of calves by supporting rumen epithelial growth , enhancing energy metabolism , and promoting overall gut health . The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of inclusion of a spray-dried fat concentrate containing tributyrin ( TB ) and tricaproin ( TC ) in a high-fat MR on growth , feed intake , and metabolic profiles of ad libitum-fed calves . Forty-eight newborn Holstein calves were blocked based on arrival sequence . Within each block of 2 calves , calves were randomly assigned to a control MR ( CON , n = 24 ) including vegetable fats from palm , coconut , and linseed fats , or to an experimental MR including the same fat blend , to which TB and TC ( TRI , n = 24 ) was added to the same levels found in milk fat . Both MR contained 7% crude protein , 7% fat , and 6% lactose ( DM basis ) and were fed at 5% solids . Calves were group housed and fed ad libitum MR with automated feeders . Weaning was gradual and induced between wk 7-10 , after which calves were only fed solid feeds . Starter feed , chopped straw , and water were offered ad libitum throughout the whole study period . Calves were weighed and blood was collected once weekly at 1300h . Calves fed TRI showed a approximately 50% reduction in therapeutic intervention days compared with CON . In addition , calves fed TRI consumed significantly more MR and starter feed , resulting in a greater growth . Serum NEFA and plasma total cholesterol were lower , whereas the enzymatic activity of serum ALP was higher in calves fed TRI than in CON . In addition , calves fed TRI had lower serum ghrelin and higher insulin-like growth factor-I concentrations . Incorporating TB and TC is a suitable strategy to increase solid feed intake upon weaning , resulting in better growth performance in ad libitum systems , and to improve health of dairy rearing calves .
Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) -including exosomes , microvesicles , and apoptotic bodies-are membrane-bound carriers of diverse molecular cargo such as nucleic acids , proteins , and lipids . They are increasingly recognized as critical mediators of information transfer during cardiovascular cell differentiation , development , diseases , and regeneration . Emerging evidence highlights the capacity of EV-encapsulated miRNAs to drive cardiomyocyte differentiation and support angiogenesis . We recently discovered a novel EV-mediated mechanism termed " Phenotypic Synchronization of Cells " ( PSyC ) . When Protein Kinase A ( PKA ) is activated in pluripotent stem cells , the speed of mesodermal differentiation increases , partly through elevated EV-encapsulated miR- miR-132 , transferred to neighboring cells with EVs , reactivates PKA signaling in recipient cells , synchronizing differentiation stages . Additionally , ex vivo assays reveal that EVs derived from PKA-activated cells can induce cardiomyocyte differentiation in early-stage embryos , underscoring the potency of EV-based signaling in shaping cardiovascular phenotypes . We recently uncovered a novel modality of vesicle-mediated intercellular communication , named Direct Intercellular Vesicle Exchange ( DIVE ) , a distinct pathway enabling rapid and direct vesicle transfer between adjacent cells . By facilitating direct traverse of nucleic acid-laden vesicles across the plasma membrane , DIVE may reinforce conventional EV-based signaling in cardiovascular differentiation . Together , these findings underscore the fundamental role of vesicle-mediated information exchange in orchestrating cardiac and vascular cell fates . Exploiting vesicle-mediated communication may open new avenues in regenerative medicine , disease modeling , and therapeutic interventions aimed at modulating cardiovascular cell function . We recently uncovered a novel modality of vesicle-mediated intercellular communication , named Direct Intercellular Vesicle Exchange ( DIVE ) , a distinct pathway enabling rapid and direct vesicle transfer between adjacent cells . By facilitating direct traverse of nucleic acid-laden vesicles across the plasma membrane , DIVE may reinforce conventional EV-based signaling in cardiovascular differentiation .
INTRODUCTION : Doxorubicin ( DOX ) , a potent anthracycline , is widely used in cancer therapy , but its ' effect is limited by DOX-induced cardiotoxicity ( DIC ) . Increasing evidence suggests that DIC is associated with ferroptosis , a cell death characterized by the iron-dependent accumulation of lipid peroxides . Although aerobic exercise is recommended for chemotherapy-related cardiac dysfunction , the extent to which its protective effects against DIC are mediated through the inhibition of ferroptosis remains largely unclear . The aim of this study was to elucidate the mechanism through which aerobic exercise attenuates DIC and provide theoretical support for promoting scientifically guided exercise in patients with DIC . METHODS : We conducted in vivo experiments involving 8 weeks of aerobic exercise during and after DOX treatment of C57BL/6J male mice , and in vitro experiments , H9c2 cells were treated with DOX and Ferrostatin-1 ( Fer-1 ) . Mice were randomly assigned into four groups : Control ( C , n = 6 ) , DOX ( D , n = 10 ) , aerobic exercise ( E , n = 6 ) and DOX + aerobic exercise ( DE , n = 10 ) . Echocardiography was used to measure left ventricular ejection fraction ( LVEF ) and left ventricular fractional shortening ( LVFS ) to assess cardiac function in mice . ELISA kits were used to quantify serum biomarkers of myocardial injury , including cardiac troponin T ( cTnT ) and N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide ( NT-proBNP ) , and lipid peroxidation markers , such as 4-Hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) and malondialdehyde ( MDA ) . Hematoxylin and eosin ( H&amp ; E ) and Masson ' s trichrome were performed to evaluate myocardial structural damage . Fluorescent probes were used to detect ferrous iron ( Fe2+ ) , reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) , and lipid peroxides in H9c2 cells . Western blotting was conducted to analyze ferroptosis-related proteins , including glutathione peroxidase 4 ( GPX4 ) , solute carrier family 7 member 11 ( SLC7A11 ) , acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 ( ACSL4 ) , transferrin receptor 1 ( TfR1 ) , and ferritin heavy chain 1 ( FTH1 ) . RESULTS : DOX treatment significantly induced cardiac damage and dysfunction , as evidenced by disrupted myocardial tissue , increased myocardial fibrosis and cTnT levels , and decreased LVEF and LVFS . However , aerobic exercise effectively reduced cardiac structural and functional damage and improved the rate of survival in mice . Furthermore , DOX induced ferroptosis in cardiomyocytes both in vitro and in vivo , as marked by increased levels of Fe2+ , ROS , and MDA , along with altered protein expression , including reduced FTH1 and SLC7A11 levels and increased ACSL4 levels . In contrast , aerobic exercise significantly mitigated these changes in vivo , and Fer-1 also effectively inhibited these effects in vitro . CONCLUSION : Collectively , this study demonstrates that aerobic exercise alleviates DIC via the inhibition of ferroptosis .
Reconstitution and direct extraction of membrane proteins using saposins is an emerging technique for solubilizing and stabilizing membrane proteins . The Salipro technology offers several advantages over traditional detergent solubilization , including a more native lipid environment , increased protein stability , and maintenance of functionality . This review covers recent studies that have used Salipros to characterize membrane proteins , as well as advances in direct extraction methods that have enabled the structural and functional characterization of a variety of targets .
OBJECTIVE : This work aimed to evaluate the modulating effect of polyunsaturated fatty acids omega-3 and omega-6 on the expression of TP53 and specific primiRNAs 34 b/c in the development of premalignant characteristics in tongue epithelial dysplasias in-vivo experimental models DESIGN : BALB/c mice were divided into two diet groups : fish oil rich in omega-3 and corn oil rich in omega- Tongue dysplasia was generated by applying a 5 % solution of 7 , 12-dimethylbenzantracene ( DMBA ) in acetone . After sacrificing , the animals were assessed for omega-6 and omega-3 , TP53/Ki67 immunostaining , Trp53R270H mutations , and primiRNA 34 b/c expression . RESULTS : Mice fed omega-6 showed higher dysplasias and Ki67 immunostaining percentages than those fed omega-3-rich oils . Furthermore , mice fed with corn oil rich in omega-6 showed significantly high average arachidonic-acid values , while the group fed cod oil rich in omega-3 showed substantially higher average values of Ecosapentanoic acid and Docosahexanoic acid in tongue tissue cell membranes . The primiRNA-34 b/c was upregulated in animals fed corn oil , enriched-omega-6 at 90 days . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings suggest that dietary lipids influence the development of DMBA-induced premalignant features on the tongue of mice ; therefore , a low intake of omega-6-rich oils and a higher intake of omega-3 could be recommended for preventing features similar to mucosal dysplasia , which could be an important preventive strategy .
The gut-liver axis is vital for organism health . Nanoplastics ( NPs ) and bisphenol A ( BPA ) can harm zebrafish intestines and livers , yet their combined impact on the gut-liver axis and transgenerational effects are unknown . In this study , F0 zebrafish were exposed to NPs and/or BPA for 28 days . Lipid indices of F0 , F1 , and F2 zebrafish , as well as the developmental indices of offspring , were detected . 16S rRNA sequencing and metabolomics were used to analyze F0 zebrafish gut microbiota and liver metabolites , exploring underlying mechanisms . The mTOR inhibitor Rapa was injected into F0 zebrafish to examine the mTOR pathway ' s role in lipid disorders caused by NPs and BPA exposure . The results showed that the exposure of F0 generation zebrafish to NPs and BPA led to lipid metabolism disorders in all generations of zebrafish and abnormal development in F1 and F2 zebrafish . Omics analysis revealed that the combined exposure to NPs and BPA significantly exacerbated the gut microbiota disorder in F0 zebrafish . The differential metabolites identified by untargeted metabolomics were enriched in the mTOR signaling pathway . After Rapa intervention , the lipid disorders in each group of F0 zebrafish were improved . In summary , the combined exposure to NPs and BPA may lead to lipid disorders in all generations of zebrafish and abnormal development of offspring by exacerbating the dysregulation of the gut microbiota-liver axis in F0 zebrafish . The results of this study provide mechanistic insights into the transgenerational effects induced by the combined exposure to NPs and BPA .
Neuronal axons serve as a conduit for the coordinated transport of essential molecular cargo between structurally and functionally distinct subcellular compartments via axonal molecular machinery . Long-distance , efficient axonal transport of membrane-bound organelles enables signal transduction and neuronal homeostasis . Efficient axonal transport is conducted by dynein and kinesin ATPase motors that use a local ATP supply from metabolic enzymes tethered to transport vesicles . Molecular motor adaptor proteins promote the processive motility and cargo selectivity of fast axonal transport . Axonal transport impairments are directly causative or associated with many neurodegenerative diseases and neuropathologies . Cargo specificity , cargo-adaptor proteins , and posttranslational modifications of cargo , adaptor proteins , microtubules , or the motor protein subunits all contribute to the precise regulation of vesicular transit . One posttranslational lipid modification that is particularly important in neurons in regulating protein trafficking , protein-protein interactions , and protein association with lipid membranes is S-acylation . Interestingly , many fast axonal transport cargos , cytoskeletal-associated proteins , motor protein subunits , and adaptors are S-acylated to modulate axonal transport . Here , we review the established regulatory role of S-acylation in fast axonal transport and provide evidence for a broader role of S-acylation in regulating the motor-cargo complex machinery , adaptor proteins , and metabolic enzymes from low-throughput studies and S-acyl-proteomic data sets . We propose that S-acylation regulates fast axonal transport and vesicular motility through localization of the proteins required for the motile cargo-complex machinery and relate how perturbed S-acylation contributes to transport impairments in neurological disorders . SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT : This review investigates the regulatory role of S-acylation in fast axonal transport and its connection to neurological diseases , with a focus on the emerging connections between S-acylation and the molecular motors , adaptor proteins , and metabolic enzymes that make up the trafficking machinery .
Sepsis is a life-threatening condition characterized by systemic inflammation and microcirculatory dysfunction . Methylene blue ( MB ) , a compound with known antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties , has been proposed as a potential therapeutic agent . This study aimed to investigate the effects of MB on survival rates and the preservation of mesenteric microcirculation in a rat model of endotoxemia . A total of 36 rats underwent cecal ligation and puncture ( CLP ) surgery to induce varying degrees of sepsis : mild ( 4 perforations ) , moderate ( 10 perforations ) , and severe ( 20 perforations ) . Animals received intravenous treatment with either MB ( 4 mg/kg ) or saline . Survival was monitored for ten days . Additionally , intravital microscopy was used to assess leukocyte rolling and adhesion in mesenteric vessels following lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) -induced sepsis . The experimental groups included saline , LPS + saline , MB + saline , LPS + MB , and MB + LPS . MB treatment significantly improved survival in the severe sepsis group , with a 30 % survival rate at ten days ( p = 02 , 95 % CI : 12-48 ) , whereas all animals in the severe sepsis + saline group died within nine days . No significant survival benefit was observed in the mild and moderate sepsis groups ( mild sepsis : p = 45 , 95 % CI : 08-34 ; moderate sepsis : p = 32 , 95 % CI : 15-51 ) . In the LPS-induced model , treatment with both LPS and MB significantly reduced leukocyte rolling and adhesion ( p < 001 , 95 % CI : 45-75 for rolling ; p < 03 , 95 % CI : 30-60 for adhesion ) , with values comparable to those of the control group . In contrast , MB alone had no effect on leukocyte rolling or adhesion . In summary , MB significantly improved survival in severe sepsis and inhibited leukocyte migration in mesenteric vessels . These findings suggest that MB may protect the microcirculation and enhance survival under severe septic conditions , representing a promising therapeutic approach for sepsis management .
Environmental stress caused by biotic and abiotic factors negatively affects crop quality and productivity . Plants employ multiple signaling mechanisms under stress , with the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( MAPK ) cascade-particularly MPK3 and MPK6-serving as a central regulator of stress adaptation through substrate phosphorylation . While these kinases are well-studied in model plants , their functional role in sweet potato [Ipomoea batatas ( L . ) Lam] remains poorly characterized . This study investigates how cold tolerance in sweet potato is modulated by IbMPK3/IbMPK6-mediated phosphorylation of the stress-responsive transcription factor IbSPF1 at Ser75 and Ser Wild-type and transgenic sweet potato plants were grown under normal and cold-stress conditions , followed by the assessment of IbSPF1 phosphorylation levels and plant physiological parameters . Notably , transgenic plants overexpressing IbSPF1 ( IbSPF1 ( DD ) ) exhibited significantly higher tolerance to cold stress than non-transgenic plants under cold stress condition , which was attributed to an increase in photosynthetic efficiency and a decrease in lipid peroxidation . Compared with non-transgenic plants , transgenic IbSPF1 ( DD ) plants showed significantly upregulated levels of cold-regulated genes . Conclusively , IbMPK3/IbMPK6-mediated phosphorylation of IbSPF1 plays an important role in cold stress signaling and tolerance in sweet potato .
The edible medicinal plant Piper sarmentosum is widely distributed in south China . This study raised a hypothesis of geographically isolated P . sarmentosum plants possessing potential site- or/and plant-dependent accumulating metabolites , expressing genes , and colonizing bacteria . Here , P . sarmentosum plants of Guangzhou City ( PG , comparison group ) and Hainan Island ( PH , control group ) were collected for assaying leaf metabolomes ( LMs ) , leaf transcriptomes ( LTs ) , and leaf-assembled bacterial communities ( LABCs ) , respectively . In LMs and LTs , 930 metabolites and 82 , 606 unigenes were identified with 552 differently accumulated metabolites ( DAMs ) and 28 , 177 differently expressed genes ( DEGs ) , respectively . In LABCs , cluster analysis yielded 822 PG-PH-common , 1114 PG-unique , and 203 PH-unique operational taxonomic units ( OTUs ) . In contrast of PH-LMs , the elevated accumulations of alkaloids and lipids and the decreased accumulations of flavonoids and phenolic acids were observed in PG-LMs . Typically , the DAMs and DEGs were co-enriched in two metabolic pathways of phenylpropanoids and flavonoids , visibly displaying the related DEGs , such as chalcone synthase ( CHS ) , chalcone isomerase ( CHI ) and phenylalanine amino lyase ( PAL ) , with regulating the functional DAMs , such as phenylalanine , tyrosine , p-coumaric acid , and naringenin . Noticeably , these DAMs were also significantly correlated with a number of different types or/and abundances of leaf-assembled bacteria ( DTAB ) between PG- and PH-LABCs , such as Flavobacterium and Pseudomonas . Therefore , this study clearly elucidated the functional metabolite accumulations and the close relationships with plant mRNA expressions and bacterial colonizations in geographically isolated plants of P . sarmentosum , providing new insight of selectively utilizing leaf food- and medicine-associated metabolites in different habitats of edible medicinal plants .
Brucellosis , a globally prevalent zoonotic disease caused by Brucella species , remains without safe and effective human vaccines . This study focuses on the outer membrane proteins Omp25 and BP26 of Brucella as targets , employing a multidimensional strategy to develop novel mRNA vaccines and systematically evaluate their immunoprotective efficacy . First , bioinformatics tools were used to predict the antigenicity , immunogenicity , and physicochemical properties of Omp25 and BP26 , while the C-ImmSim server simulated their potential to induce innate and adaptive immune responses . Building on these predictions , we designed and synthesized lipid nanoparticle-encapsulated nucleoside-modified mRNA vaccines ( Omp25-Fc and BP26-Fc mRNA-LNPs ) and compared their immunogenicity with traditional alum-adjuvanted protein vaccines ( alum-BP26 and alum-Omp25 ) . Animal experiments demonstrated that three immunizations with Omp25-Fc and BP26-Fc mRNA-LNPs induced significantly stronger humoral and cellular immune responses in mice compared to conventional vaccines . Evaluation of protective efficacy through challenge experiments revealed a marked reduction in splenic bacterial load in both mRNA vaccine groups relative to the controls . Mechanistic analysis further showed that Omp25-Fc and BP26-Fc mRNA vaccines activated mixed Th1/Th2 immune responses , effectively reducing bacterial burden and inflammatory damage in systemic infection models . Notably , the mRNA vaccines exhibited more durable immune memory and broader protective coverage than the alum-adjuvanted protein vaccines . Our findings demonstrate that Omp25- and BP26-based mRNA-LNP vaccines exhibit high immunogenicity and clinical translational potential , providing innovative strategies and experimental evidence for the development of brucellosis vaccines .
BACKGROUND : Chronic prostatitis ( CP ) , a frequent male urological disease , is featured with chronic pelvic pain and various discomfort . Calycosin has anti-inflammatory effect and its exact mechanism in CP remains unknown . OBJECTIVE : Our research was designed to explain the underlying mechanism of calycosin in CP and illustrate our findings in the rats and LPS-ATP-induced RWPE-1 cells . METHODS : The pathology of prostate tissues was analyzed by HE staining and histological inflammation score . The concentration of inflammatory factors were detected via ELISA assay . Besides , the representative biomarkers of oxidative stress were measured through detection kits . The ROS production , NLRP3 and GSDMD expression were evaluated by immunofluorescence or immumohistochemical staining . Furthermore , the expression of NF-kBp65 pathway-associated proteins and pyroptosis-associated proteins were detected by western blotting . RWPE-1 cells growth and pyroptosis were assessed by CCK-8 and flow cytometry , respectively . mRNA levels of pyroptosis markers were detected by qRT-PCR analysis . RESULTS : The CP model in vivo and in vitro was successfully established by carrageenan and LPS-ATP , respectively . Calycosin substantially ameliorated the pathological damage of prostate tissue . Moreover , calycosin treatment promoted RWPE-1 cells viability and reduced pyroptosis . Calycosin remarkably reduced the inflammatory factors secretion and oxidative stress markers . Calycosin stimulation effectively suppressed the pyroptosis , which was linked with inactivation of the NF-kBp65 signaling pathway . These beneficial effects of calycosin were similar to the NLRP3 inhibitor ( MCC950 ) . CONCLUSION : To sum up , our observations indicated that calycosin protects against CP via suppressing inflammation , oxidative stress , and pyroptosis through NF-kBp65 pathway , thereby serving as a promising therapy for CP treatment .
Metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) , a conglomerate of dysregulated metabolic traits that vary between individuals , is partially driven by modern diets high in fat , sucrose , or fructose and their interactions with host genes in metabolic tissues . To elucidate the roles of individual tissues and cell types in diet-induced MetS , we performed single-cell RNA sequencing on the hypothalamus , liver , adipose tissue , and small intestine of mice fed high-fat high-sucrose ( HFHS ) or fructose diets . We found that hypothalamic neurons were sensitive to fructose , while adipose progenitor cells and macrophages were responsive to HFHS . Ligand-receptor analysis revealed lipid metabolism and inflammation networks among peripheral tissues driven by HFHS , while both diets stimulated synaptic remodeling within the hypothalamus . mt-Rnr2 , a top responder to both diets , mitigated diet-induced MetS by stimulating thermogenesis . Our study demonstrates that HFHS and fructose diets have differential cell type and network targets but also share regulators such as mt-Rnr2 to affect MetS risk .
Cancer cachexia is a debilitating metabolic disorder characterized by involuntary loss of body and muscle mass , leading to increased morbidity and mortality . We previously found that forkhead box P1 ( FoxP1 ) upregulation in skeletal muscle causes muscle wasting and is required for muscle wasting in response to cancer . However , transcriptional networks targeted by FoxP1 in skeletal muscles undergoing cancer-induced wasting remain largely unknown . Here , we identify FoxP1 as a key disruptor of the skeletal-muscle clock in response to cancer that reprograms circadian patterns of gene expression at cachexia onset . Specifically , we show that cancer-induced FoxP1 rewires the skeletal-muscle circadian transcriptome toward pathways associated with muscle wasting and disrupts the temporal patterning of pathways governing glucose , lipid , and oxidative metabolism . These findings thus implicate cancer/disease-specific functions of FOXP1 in the disruption and reprograming of the skeletal-muscle circadian transcriptome , which may contribute to muscle wasting and the development of cachexia .
The apolipoprotein C ( Apoc ) family comprises a group of low-molecular-weight proteins that are essential for modulating lipoprotein metabolism , primarily influencing lipid transport and metabolic pathways . Apoc1 , a member of the Apoc family , is consistently overexpressed across various cancers , significantly correlating with poor prognosis . The multifaceted role of Apoc1 includes promoting cancer progression by activating key signalling pathways such as epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) , mitogen-activated protein kinases ( MAPK ) , STAT3 and WNT3 A . Additionally , Apoc1 contributes to the regulatory networks involving lncRNAs and miRNAs , thereby influencing cancer . This comprehensive review delineates Apoc1 ' s mechanisms within malignant tumours and assesses its prognostic implications for patients with cancer . The aim is to shed light on potential novel therapeutic strategies in oncology , potentially revolutionising patient care and thereby enhancing patient survival rates and quality of life .
Lysosomes are essential organelles degrading a wide range of substrates , maintaining cellular homeostasis , and regulating cell growth through nutrient and metabolic signaling . A key vulnerability of lysosomes is their membrane permeabilization ( LMP ) , a process tightly linked to diseases including aging , neurodegeneration , lysosomal storage disorders , and cardiovascular disease . Research progress in the past few years has greatly improved our understanding of lysosomal repair mechanisms . Upon LMP , cells activate multiple membrane remodeling processes to restore lysosomal integrity , such as membrane invagination , tubulation , lipid patching , and membrane stabilization . These repair pathways are critical in preserving cellular stress tolerance and preventing deleterious inflammation and cell death triggered by lysosomal damage . This review focuses on the expanding mechanistic insights of lysosomal repair , highlighting its crucial role in maintaining cellular health and the implications for disease pathogenesis and therapeutic strategies .
Glaucoma is a neurodegenerative disease manifested by retinal ganglion cell ( RGC ) death and irreversible blindness . We have identified apolipoprotein A-I binding protein ( AIBP ) that controls excessive cholesterol accumulation and neuroinflammation in the retina by upregulating the cholesterol transporter ABCA1 and reducing TLR4 signaling and mitochondrial dysfunction . Here , we demonstrated that AIBP and ABCA1 expression were decreased , whereas Toll-like receptor 4 ( TLR4 ) , interleukin-1beta ( IL-1beta ) , and the cholesterol content increased in the retina of patients with glaucoma and mouse models of glaucoma . Restoring AIBP deficiency by a single intravitreal injection of adeno-associated virus ( AAV ) protected RGCs and ameliorated visual dysfunction in experimental glaucoma . Conversely , AAV-mediated RGC-specific AIBP knockdown exacerbated RGC loss and visual dysfunction in a mouse model of glaucoma . Mechanistically , AAV-AIBP attenuated TLR4 and IL-1beta expression and localization of TLR4 to lipid rafts , reduced cholesterol accumulation , and ameliorated visual dysfunction . Additionally , AAV-AIBP promoted mitochondrial complexity and function in Muller glia in vivo . Recombinant AIBP protein inhibited TLR4 and IL-1beta activation and alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction in Muller glia in response to elevated pressure in vitro . These studies indicate that restoring AIBP expression in the glaucomatous retina reduces neuroinflammation and protects RGCs and Muller glia , suggesting the therapeutic potential of AAV-AIBP in human glaucoma .
BACKGROUND : Mineral deficiencies are significant public health concerns worldwide , contributing to the development and progression of non-communicable diseases ( NCDs ) . We evaluated longitudinal adequacy of mineral intakes among Iranian adults . METHODS : Adult ( aged >/= 18 ) participants were included in the repeated cross-sectional analysis from 2006-2008 to 2018- Dietary intake was assessed using a validated Food Frequency Questionnaire ( FFQ ) . Adequacy of minerals intake , including calcium , iron , magnesium , zinc , copper , manganese , selenium , and chromium , were evaluated against the European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism ( ESPEN ) guidelines . Longitudinal trends of mineral intakes were evaluated using repeated measures analysis of variance in a cohort of 4384 participants ( 42% men ; mean age 8 +/- 8 years ) . RESULTS : Calcium inadequacy increased markedly from 6% in 2006-2008 to 6% in 2018-2022 , with higher rates among women ( 1% ) and older adults ( 0% ) . Iron inadequacy , mainly affecting women , increased from 5 to 1% over the same period . Although magnesium inadequacy remained high overall , it reached 2% in 2018- In contrast , manganese intake was rarely inadequate . Zinc , copper , selenium , and chromium inadequacies showed fluctuations , but mean levels were generally closer to recommended values despite notable gender disparities . CONCLUSIONS : The study indicates significant and worsening mineral intake inadequacies among Iranian adults , particularly for calcium and iron . Further long-term studies are needed to guide interventions , such as dietary education , food fortification , and policy measures aimed at improving micronutrient intake across diverse age and gender groups .
BACKGROUND : The widespread presence of per-and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFAS ) has raised global health concerns . This study aims to determine the age-specific relationships of PFAS compounds with metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) and its components . METHODS : We used data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) in 2003- Modified Poisson regression was employed to estimate associations between individual PFAS compounds and prevalence of MetS , as well as its components . Multiple linear regression analyses were performed to examine the associations between PFAS congeners and metabolic markers , including lipid and glucose homeostasis traits . Additionally , weighted quantile sum ( WQS ) regression and Bayesian kernel machine regression ( BKMR ) models were conducted to investigate the joint effects of PFAS mixtures on the prevalence of MetS and its components across different age groups . RESULTS : A total of 5850 participants were included for analysis . In the Modified Poisson regression model , ln-transformed perfluorononanoic acid ( PFNA ) level was positively correlated with MetS prevalence in adolescents ( prevalence ratio [PR] = 42 ; 95% CI : 01-99 ) . Conversely , ln-transformed perfluorohexanesulfonic acid ( PFHxS ) and ln-transformed 2- ( N-Methylperfluorooctane sulfonamido ) acetic acid ( MeFOSAA ) were negatively associated with the risks of MetS in young adults ( PR = 86 , 95% CI : 76-98 ) and middle-aged adults ( PR = 88 , 95% CI : 79-98 ) , respectively . Notably , individual PFAS exposure was positively associated with levels of total cholesterol , low-density lipoprotein , non-high-density lipoprotein , and high-density lipoprotein in young and middle-aged adults . However , overall effect analyses using WQS and BKMR showed no significant associations of PFAS mixture with MetS in any age group . Nonetheless , in middle-aged adults , PFAS mixture was adversely correlated with hypertriglyceridemia and positively linked to a greater risk of hypertension and increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels . CONCLUSIONS : Our study highlighted the complex relationships between PFAS exposure and the risks of MetS and its components across different age groups . Co-exposure to PFAS was particularly linked to dyslipidemia in young and middle-aged adults . Prospective studies are needed for better comprehension of the causative impact of PFAS on the risks of MetS .
BACKGROUND : The " lipid paradox " describes the counterintuitive observation that traditionally unfavorable lipid profiles may be associated with improved outcomes in stroke patients . Non-traditional lipid markers such as the atherogenic index of plasma ( AIP ) and the triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index have been proposed to better reflect the complex metabolic disturbances following stroke . This study aims to investigate the mediating role of AIP and TyG index in the association between stroke and all-cause mortality and elucidate the potential mechanisms underlying the lipid paradox . METHODS : This cohort study used data from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) , including 10 , 220 participants enrolled from 2011 to 2020 , with a maximum follow-up of 10 years . AIP and TyG index were calculated from baseline serum measurements . U-test , chi-square test , restricted cubic spline analysis ( RCS ) , cox proportional hazards regression and mediation model were used to analyze the relationship between baseline AIP , TyG index , stroke and all-cause mortality . RESULTS : A total of 1 , 421 deaths ( 90% ) occurred during an average follow-up of 21 years . Compared to survivors , non-survivors were older , had a higher prevalence of stroke , and lower AIP levels ( P < 05 ) , while TyG index showed no significant group difference . RCS analysis revealed a nonlinear association between the TyG index and mortality , but no significant nonlinearity for AIP . Cox regression analysis identified age , gender , marital status , smoking history , hypertension , diabetes , lung disease , stroke , AIP , and the highest TyG quartile ( Q4 ) as independent predictors of all-cause mortality ( all P < 05 ) . Notably , AIP showed a negative association with mortality ( HR = 87 , 95% CI : 77-98 ) , demonstrating a lipid paradox phenomenon . Furthermore , in the chain mediation model , both AIP ( beta=-03 , 95%CI : -072 to -002 ) and TyG index ( beta=-016 , 95%CI : -036 to -002 ) independently mediated the association between stroke and all-cause mortality in a negative manner . However , the positive chain mediating effect of AIP through TyG index ( beta = 028 , 95%CI : 003-066 ) offset this negative mediation , rendering the overall mediating effect insignificant . CONCLUSIONS : AIP and the TyG index independently or jointly influence the risk of all-cause mortality after stroke . Notably , AIP demonstrates a significant lipid paradox phenomenon . Moreover , the chain mediating effect of AIP and TyG significantly increases post-stroke mortality risk . These findings highlight the complex interplay between lipid and glucose metabolism in stroke prognosis and offer a novel perspective for post-stroke metabolic management .
BACKGROUND : Menopause-related cholesterol metabolic disorders pose a global health concern , but the underlying mechanism is unclear . PRKRA was identified as a potential regulator of cholesterol metabolism in an exome-wide association study . Our prior research revealed a decrease in PRKRA expression in the ovarian cortex of postmenopausal women . However , its involvement in cholesterol metabolism disturbances in postmenopausal females remains unclear . This study aimed to investigate the association between PRKRA and cholesterol metabolism disorders in ovariectomized mice . Additionally , we elucidated the impact and underlying mechanisms of PRKRA on cholesterol metabolism in HepG2 and HuH7 cells . METHODS : An ovariectomized mouse model was generated , and the mice were fed a standard diet for six months to simulate menopausal conditions . PRKRA expression in mouse liver tissue was evaluated by qPCR and western blotting . Spearman correlation analysis was used to explore the relationship between the PRKRA mRNA level and the serum total cholesterol concentration . In vitro , we investigated the influence of PRKRA on cholesterol levels and Dil-LDL uptake capacity in HepG2 and HuH7 cells . Additionally , transcriptome sequencing was employed to analyze the intrinsic mechanisms involved . RESULTS : The ovariectomized mouse model exhibited abnormal lipid profiles that correlated with reduced PRKRA expression in the liver . In vitro , 17beta-estradiol ( E ) upregulated PRKRA expression , while follicle-stimulating hormone ( FSH ) downregulated it in HepG2 and HuH7 cells . PRKRA knockdown increased intracellular total cholesterol and decreased Dil-LDL uptake , while PRKRA overexpression had the opposite effects . Mechanistically , reduced PRKRA levels were associated with HMGCS1 upregulation and LDLR downregulation . CONCLUSION : Ovariectomy for six months independently induced an aberrant cholesterol phenotype in mice . Downregulation of PRKRA was implicated in cholesterol metabolism disturbances related to menopause , potentially through the regulation of cholesterol synthesis and LDL uptake .
BACKGROUND : The relationship between eosinophil number and overweight status ( or obesity ) remains a subject of debate . While animal studies suggest a negative correlation between the two , most clinical studies indicate a positive correlation . Therefore , we hypothesize that a nonlinear relationship may exist between eosinophil number and overweight status . This study aims to investigate the association between eosinophil number and overweight status ( as well as related indicators ) using data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) . METHODS : We utilized data from NHANES 1999-2018 , where eosinophil number was obtained from laboratory tests . Overweight status was defined as a body mass index ( BMI ) >/= We then applied weighted logistic regression/linear regression , subgroup analysis , and restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) analysis to investigate the association between eosinophil number and overweight status ( as well as related indicators ) . RESULTS : A total of 77 , 217 individuals were included in this study , with 38 , 106 individuals in the non-overweight group ( BMI < 25 ) and 39 , 111 individuals in the overweight group ( overweight and obesity , BMI >/= 25 ) . The logistic regression analysis revealed a significant association between eosinophil number and overweight status ( OR : 38 , 95% CI : 81-12 , P < 001 ) . Additionally , eosinophil number was significantly positively correlated with obesity/BMI/triglycerides and negatively correlated with High-Density Lipoprotein ( HDL ) . Finally , the nonlinear regression results indicated an inverted U-shaped relationship between eosinophil number and overweight status/obesity/BMI . CONCLUSION : Our study demonstrates an inverted U-shaped relationship between eosinophil number and overweight status/obesity/BMI . Eosinophil number is also significantly associated with HDL and triglycerides . These findings suggest that eosinophils may play a role in overweight ( or obesity ) and provide valuable insights for exploring the underlying immune mechanisms of overweight status .
BACKGROUND : Long-chain fatty acyl CoA synthetase 4 ( ACSL4 ) is crucial for lipid metabolism , primarily catalyzing the formation of 12-20 carbon chain fatty acids . ACSL4 is upregulated in various cancers and linked to aggressive behavior and poor survival . A bioinformatics study showing ACSL4 upregulation in pancreatic cancer . However , utility for actual pathological diagnosis and clinical significance in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma ( PDAC ) and intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm ( IPMN ) are unexplored . This study aimed to investigate ACSL4 expression in PDAC and IPMN , and evaluate its clinical implications . METHODS : We examined ACSL4 expression using immunohistochemistry in 165 patients with PDAC and IPMN . Differences in ACSL4 expression between malignant and benign lesions were evaluated using the Pearson chi2 test . The association between ACSL4 expression , pathological parameters , and survival was assessed through Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses in 96 patients with invasive cancer . RESULTS : Compared to normal pancreatic ducts , low-grade pancreatic intraepithelial neoplasm , and intraductal papillary mucinous adenoma ( IPMA ) ( 3% , 4% , and 7% , respectively ) , ACSL4 expression was significantly higher in invasive PDAC , noninvasive intraductal papillary mucinous carcinoma ( IPMC ) , and invasive IPMC ( 77% , 7% , and 9% , respectively ) . In invasive cancers , low ACSL4 expression was associated with a higher frequency of lymphovascular invasion and recurrence and shorter disease-free survival ( P = 006 ) . Additionally , low ACSL4 expression was an independent prognostic factor for shorter disease-free survival in multivariable Cox regression analysis ( HR = 409 , 95% CI : 121-180 , P = 024 ) . CONCLUSION : ACSL4 expression helps differentiate cancerous from precancerous lesions in pancreatic cancer , but low expression is linked to a higher frequency of lymphovascular invasion and shorter disease-free survival in invasive cases . Due to the limited sample size and broad confidence intervals , the findings of this study should be interpreted with caution and require validation in larger , independent cohorts .
BACKGROUND : This study examines colistin resistance in Gram-negative bacteria in Egypt , analyzing prevalence , trends , geographic variations , colistin-carbapenem resistance correlation , and mcr-mediated plasmid resistance . METHODS : We conducted a systematic search of articles published between 2014 and 2024 that reported on colistin or mcr-mediated resistance in Gram-negative bacteria isolated from human infections in Egypt , with clearly defined susceptibility testing methods . A random-effects meta-analysis was conducted to estimate colistin resistance prevalence based on broth microdilution ( BMD ) findings , the gold standard method . To explore the influence of study-level factors-including alternative susceptibility testing methods-a multivariate meta-regression analysis was performed . The results of the meta-regression are reported as regression coefficients ( beta ) , representing the difference in colistin resistance , expressed in percentage points . All statistical analyses were conducted using R software . RESULTS : This analysis included 55 studies . Based on BMD susceptibility testing , colistin resistance was observed in 9% of all recovered Gram-negative isolates ( 95% CI : 6-14% ) and was significantly higher among carbapenem-resistant isolates ( 31% , 95% CI : 25-38% ) , with p < Multivariate meta-regression analysis further confirmed that colistin resistance was significantly higher in carbapenem-resistant isolates compared to the total recovered isolates ( beta = 8% points , p = 001 ) . Additionally , colistin resistance has significantly increased over time , with a beta = 8% points per year ( p = 001 ) . The use of the VITEK 2 system was associated with lower detected colistin resistance compared to BMD ( beta = -0 , p = 02 ) . Geographically , resistance rates were higher in Upper Egypt ( beta = 3 , p = 04 ) . Regarding mcr plasmid-mediated resistance , mcr-1 was the most prevalent resistance gene , particularly in E . coli . In contrast , mcr-2 was rare , detected sporadically in K . pneumoniae and P . aeruginosa . CONCLUSION : In Egypt , BMD testing identified colistin resistance in 9% of Gram-negative bacteria , increasing to 31% in carbapenem-resistant isolates . This higher resistance in carbapenem-resistant strains suggests stronger selective pressure from frequent colistin use . Additionally , colistin resistance has shown a rising trend over time , likely driven by increased usage and the spread of plasmid-mediated resistance . These findings underscore the urgent need for strict antimicrobial stewardship and alternative therapies to curb resistance evolution .
BACKGROUND : Diets restricted in carbohydrates may be beneficial for diabetes management . However , without reducing energy intake , carbohydrate restriction results in increased protein and fat intake . Understanding how this macronutrient substitution is associated with adipose tissue distribution is important to prevent diabetes progression . Therefore , the aim was to investigate the isocaloric substitution of carbohydrates with fat and protein in relation to subcutaneous ( SAT ) and visceral adipose tissue ( VAT ) and hepatic lipid ( HL ) content in individuals with recent-onset type 1 ( T1D ) and type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) , accounting for macronutrient quality . METHODS : This cross-sectional analysis includes participants with T1D ( n = 137 ) and T2D ( n = 170 ) from the German Diabetes Study ( GDS ) . Dietary macronutrient intake was derived from dietary information assessed with a validated food frequency questionnaire . SAT and VAT were measured with magnetic resonance ( MR ) imaging , while HL content with H MR spectroscopy . Isocaloric substitution analyses based on multivariable linear regression models were conducted to examine the replacement of total and higher glycemic index ( GI ) carbohydrates in energy percent ( En% ) with total fat , monounsaturated ( MUFA ) , polyunsaturated ( PUFA ) , and saturated fatty acids ( SFA ) , and protein in regard to SAT , VAT and HL content . RESULTS : In individuals with T1D , substituting carbohydrates with total fat was not associated with SAT , while substituting carbohydrates with protein demonstrated higher SAT [beta ( 95% CI ) per 5 En% : 3100 cm ( 25 , 6200 ) ] . In individuals with T2D , replacing carbohydrates with total fat or protein showed no association with SAT and VAT . However , substituting carbohydrates with PUFA was associated with lower VAT [-970 cm ( -1900 , -40 ) ] and HL content [-3% ( -9 , 4 ) ] , while replacing carbohydrates with SFA was associated with higher HL content [4% ( -6 , 4 ) ] . Substituting carbohydrates with protein was associated with lower HL content in individuals with T2D [-4% ( -9 , 0 ) ] , mainly driven by plant-based protein . There were no substantial differences between the replacement of total and higher GI carbohydrates . CONCLUSIONS : The quality of substituted nutrients may play an important role for adipose tissue and HL accumulation in individuals with T2D . Particularly , integrating PUFAs and plant-based proteins into the diet seems beneficial for VAT and HL content .
BACKGROUND : For over half a century , dietary guidelines have consistently advocated for the substitution of saturated fatty acids ( SFA ) with monounsaturated ( MUFA ) and polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) as a cornerstone strategy for health life , but evidence on independent associations between specific fatty acids and mortality remains inconsistent . METHODS : This prospective cohort study from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) 2007-2018 analyzed 21 , 823 participants aged 20-80 years . Survey-weighted Cox regression assessed associations between SFA , MUFA , PUFA intake , and their ratios to the total fat ( TFAT ) intake quantity , and all-cause mortality . Mediation analyses examined whether the neutrophil percentage-to-albumin ratio ( NPAR ) mediated the effects of fatty acid-related parameters on mortality risk . RESULTS : In multivariable-adjusted models , no significant trends were observed for all-cause mortality across tertiles of SFA , MUFA , or PUFA intake . In multivariable-adjusted Cox models , the highest tertile of SFA/TFAT ratio was significantly associated with elevated mortality risk ( HR = 23 , p for trend < 01 ) . Conversely , the highest PUFA/TFAT tertile demonstrated a protective association ( HR = 86 , p for trend < 01 ) . However , the MUFA/TFAT ratio showed no significant mortality association across tertiles ( p for trend = 137 ) . Mediation analysis revealed that NPAR mediated 8% and 8% of SFA/TFAT and PUFA/TFAT effects on mortality risk , suggesting partial mediation through a shared inflammatory pathway . CONCLUSION : This study provides the novel evidence that the proportional composition of dietary fatty acids within total fat intake-rather than their absolute intake levels-is a critical determinant of longevity . By demonstrating that replacing SFA with PUFA reduces mortality risk through NPAR-mediated inflammatory pathways , our findings inform the World Health Organization ' s 2023 guidelines on dietary fat modification . These results shift the paradigm from isolated nutrient restrictions to balanced fatty acid ratios , offering a novel mechanistic basis for public health strategies aimed at extending healthy lifespan .
BACKGROUND : Rheumatoid arthritis ( RA ) is a chronic inflammatory joint disease with increasing mortality worldwide . Traditional obesity indicators inadequately predict the mortality risk in this population . Thus , the research aimed to evaluate new obesity indicators to explore their close association with RA mortality . METHODS : This study analyzed 101 , 316 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey participants ( 1999-2018 ) to evaluate alternative adiposity indices for RA mortality prediction . Missing data were imputed using the random forest method . Key covariates were selected using the Boruta algorithm and weighted univariate Cox regression . Multivariable-adjusted models generated hazard ratios ( 95% confidence interval ) , validated by time-dependent receiver operating characteristic curves and Harrell ' s C-index . Survival patterns were assessed with restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) and Kaplan-Meier curves . Threshold effects and robustness were analyzed via segmented Cox models and sensitivity analyses . Extreme gradient boosting ( XGBoost ) identified A Body Shape Index ( ABSI ) as the strongest predictor . RESULTS : Among the 1 , 266 individuals , 299 deaths occurred during follow-up ( 190 all-cause , 59 cardiovascular , 50 cancer ) . ABSI predicted the 5- , 10- , and 20-year mortality ( area under the curve : 823 , 801 , 752 , respectively ) and outperformed other indices in the Harrell ' s C-index . Weighted multivariable Cox regression linked higher ABSI x 100 values with increased mortality ; Kaplan-Meier curves confirmed reduced survival in the highest quartile ( P < 001 ) . RCS revealed a U-curve association linking ABSI x 100 to mortality . Moreover , the mediating effects analysis indicated the Monocyte-to-High-Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol Ratio , Neutrophil-to-Lymphocyte Ratio , Advanced Lung Cancer Inflammation Index , and Systemic Immune-Inflammation Index played significant roles as mediators , with mediation ratios of 9% , 1% , 5% , and 5% , respectively . Additional sensitivity analyses validated these results . Quartile stratification revealed a pronounced risk amplification in the highest quartile ( Q4 ) , particularly in the fully adjusted specification ( Hazard ratio = 43 , 45-14 ; P = 005 ) . Furthermore , XGBoost results indicate that ABSI is the best obesity metric for predicting the prognosis of patients with RA . CONCLUSIONS : This study revealed a potential clinical value of a new obesity index , specifically the ABSI , in predicting the survival rates among individuals with RA . Inflammatory markers appear to play a partial mediating role in this relationship .
PURPOSE : To evaluate the success rate of different antidepressants in addressing depression among teenagers , while also offering substantiation for the efficacy and tolerability of these treatments in this demographic . METHODS : Participants were adolescents aged 6-18 years diagnosed with major depressive disorder according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ( DSM-5 ) , Chinese Classification of Mental Disorders ( CCMD-3 ) or equivalent diagnostic criteria ( e . g . , Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders , Fourth Edition ( DSM-4 ) , International Classification of Diseases , Tenth/Eleventh Revision ( ICD10/11 ) ) . We conducted a systematic search of major databases ( PubMed , Cochrane Library , and Web of Science ) for randomized controlled trials ( RCTs ) published up to October The search strategy included the following keywords : " Depression , " " Depressive Disorders , " " Emotional Disorders , " " adolescent , " " young adult , " " minors , " " fluoxetine , " " sertraline , " " paroxetine , " " agomelatine , " " vilazodone , " " escitalopram , " and " venlafaxine . " RESULTS : Our network meta-analysis ( NMA ) included 15 RCTs involving 12 , 258 participants . The included studies were assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool . The majority of studies had low risk of bias in terms of randomization and allocation concealment , while some studies had unclear implementation of blinding or outcome assessment . The NMA results showed that in several major indicators Children ' s Depression Rating Scale-Revised ( CDRS-R ) , Clinical Global Impression-Severity ( CGI-S ) and Children ' s Global Assessment Scale ( CGAS ) , agomelatine ( MD = -34 , 95 % CI = -59 , -09 ) , fluoxetine ( MD = -31 , 95 % CI = -42 , -21 ) , sertraline ( MD = -27 , 95 % CI = -47 , -06 ) were significantly better than placebo in improving CDRS-R . In terms of CGI-S , sertraline ( MD = -39 , 95 % CI = -77 , -01 ) was more effective . In contrast to the placebo , escitalopram ( MD = 08 , 95 % CI = 33 , 84 ) was more effective in CGAS ; Surface Under the Cumulative Ranking Curve ( SUCRA ) values showed that escitalopram ( 1 % and 4 % ) could achieve better therapeutic effects in CGAS and Clinical Global Impressions-Improvement ( CGI-I ) , and agomelatine ( 4 % ) was more effective in improving CDRS-R scores than other drugs . Sertraline ( 100 % ) appears to be the most likely strategy to decelerate the increase in CGI-I scores . The effectiveness of paroxetine ( 9% ) in the management of Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale ( MADRS ) was significantly better than that of several other drugs . CONCLUSION : For symptom severity scales , agomelatine ( CDRS-R : SUCRA 4% ) and paroxetine ( MADRS : SUCRA 9% ) demonstrated the greatest efficacy . For functional improvement , escitalopram ranked highest on CGAS ( SUCRA 1% ) . Sertraline showed superiority in clinician-rated severity ( CGI-S : SUCRA 100% ) and improvement ( CGI-I : SUCRA 2% ) . Clinical decisions should prioritize escitalopram for functional recovery and sertraline for severe cases requiring rapid symptom reduction . TRIAL REGISTRATION : PROSPERO registration number : CRD
BACKGROUND : Treatment with mifepristone in combination with misoprostol may be a safe and less expensive option compared with surgical management in missed miscarriage , but the efficacy of medication management varies in clinical practice . This study aims to identify the risk factors related to successful medical management using mifepristone and misoprostol for missed miscarriage . METHODS : We carried out a retrospective case-control study in the First Affiliated Hospital with Nanjing Medical University from January 1 , 2023 to December 31 , Patients were recruited into this study if they were aged 16 years and older , diagnosed with a missed miscarriage by pelvic ultrasound scan in the first 13 weeks of pregnancy ( by last menstrual period ) , and chose to have medication management . Women who failed to spontaneously pass the gestational sac within 24 h of the oral misoprostol dose were included in the case group , while women who had complete gestational sac expulsion within 24 h of the oral misoprostol dose were defined as controls . The baseline characteristics of the patients were collected in the electronic medical record system and the meteorological data were obtained from the Nanjing Meteorological Observation Centre . Logistic regression analysis was used to identify the risk factors which affected medication management efficacy . RESULTS : A total of 163 patients met inclusion criteria , including 60 patients in the case group and 103 patients in the control group . Our results showed that the history of gravidity , history of parity , history of miscarriage , history of caesarean section , prior uterine surgery , and the use of supplemental vaginal misoprostol could be potential risk factors , while the remaining variables showed no significant differences between the two groups . The univariable logistic regression model demonstrated that the risk of unsuccessful medication management was increased 67-fold in patients who had been pregnant more than 3 times ( 95% CI : 66 , 08 ; p = 001 ) ; increased 29-fold in parous women ( 95% CI : 13 , 62 ; p = 021 ) ; and increased 09-fold in patients who had previous miscarriages ( 95% CI : 10 , 00 ; p = 026 ) . Additionally , prior uterine surgery was related to the outcomes of medication management ( OR : 94 ; 95% CI : 46 , 93 ; p = 003 ) , especially caesarean section ( OR : 09 ; 95% CI : 13 , 62 ; p = 021 ) . Interestingly , the repeated vaginal administration of misoprostol was not associated with an increased success rate ( OR : 65 ; 95% CI : 76 , 56 ; p = 001 ) . Moreover , we evaluated the effect of meteorological factors on which the exposure of 4 days average visibility emerged as a statistically significant risk factor ( OR : 13 , 95% CI : 01 , 27 ; p = 036 ) . Multivariable logistic regression model showed that the history of parity , prior uterine surgery , use of supplemental vaginal misoprostol and 4 days average visibility were still independently associated with the outcomes of medication management , while the gestational age by ultrasound was no longer related . CONCLUSIONS : The missed miscarriage patients who are parous or have uterine surgery history may suffer from a higher risk of unsuccessful medication management . The exposure to reduced visibility had a significant influence on the efficacy of mifepristone and misoprostol , while the supplementary administration of vaginal misoprostol could not increase the chance of successful miscarriage management .
PURPOSE : This study aimed to analyze the differences in microbial composition between the proximal and distal intestinal segments of newborns with intestinal atresia , speculating about the mechanism underlying the initial establishment of neonatal intestinal flora . Additionally , differential metabolic pathways were explored to predict their potential effects on gravidas and fetuses . METHODS : The microbial characteristics of intestinal flora were assessed using 16SrRNA sequencing . The alpha and beta-diversity indices were calculated to compare the microbial composition among three groups . Principal Coordinates Analysis ( PCoA ) was employed to identify and quantify differences in microbial communities . Furthermore , PICRUSt software was utilized to predict the possible functional impacts of differential metabolic pathways by comparing them with public databases . RESULTS : Samples were collected from 23 neonates with intestinal atresia ( proximal and distal segments ) and 25 healthy neonates ( first meconium ) based on predefined selection criteria . No significant differences in baseline characteristics were observed between the control and intestinal atresia groups ( P > 05 ) . Alpha-Diversity analysis revealed that the distal intestinal group exhibited greater microbial species richness . Beta-Diversity analysis indicated significant differences in bacterial composition between the control group and the distal intestinal group ( P < 05 ) , with the distal group showing a more pronounced divergence compared to the proximal group . Functional prediction analysis suggested that the differential metabolic pathways might protect the intestinal mucosal barrier . However , they could also negatively impact blood glucose regulation and lipid transport in gravidas and fetuses , potentially contributing to adverse emotional states in pregnant women . CONCLUSION : The distinct microbial profiles observed among the three groups suggest that the establishment of neonatal intestinal flora may result from a combination of placental transmission and digestive tract colonization . Functional pathway analysis suggested these microbial metabolic differences may exert pleiotropic effects , demonstrating both protective roles in intestinal barrier function and potentially detrimental impacts on emotional modulation and glucose/lipid dysregulation .
OBJECTIVE : To evaluate the effect of preoperative intake of oral carbohydrates versus standard preoperative fasting prior to elective cesarean delivery on plasma purine levels ( hypoxanthine , xanthine , and uric acid ) and beta-hydroxybutyrate ( beta-HB ) in mother ' s blood plasma and umbilical cord blood plasma . METHODS : Prospective randomized clinical trial , performed according to the Declaration of Helsinki , IRB approval ( KB-0012/113/19 , 2019 ) . Patients with at term gestation with singleton uncomplicated pregnancies , scheduled for cesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia were randomized in a 1 : 1 ratio to Group I ( oral carbohydrate drinks ( CHO Group , oral carbohydrate drink - 200 mL - 5% dextrose in water ) 2 h prior to surgery in addition to standard solid fasting ( 6 h ) or Group II which underwent only standard fasting ( 6 h - solids , 2 h for - liquids , SF Group ) . Blood samples were collected at 2 h after carbohydrate consumption ( maternal ) and at umbilical cord clamping ( umbilical cord ) . The primary outcomes - plasma concentrations of hypoxanthine , xanthine , uric acid , in maternal blood and umbilical cord blood were measured using high-performance liquid chromatography . The secondary outcomes were blood pH , and lactate , and butyrate concentration . RESULTS : The study was conducted between August 2019 , and March 2020 with 148 patients enrolled ( 75 CHO group ; 73 SF group ) . Lower concentrations of hypoxanthine ( 87 ( 13-18 ) vs . 85 ( 88-53 ) micromol/l , p = 00050 ) and xanthine ( 79 ( 68-95 ) vs . 00 ( 88-22 ) micromol/l , < 00001 ) were observed in the maternal blood plasma and umbilical cord blood plasma ( 6 ( 00-5 ) vs . 9 ( 53-8 ) micromol/l , p = 035 and 05 ( 82-58 ) vs . 45 ( 94-17 ) micromol/l , p = 0035 ) in patients supplemented with carbohydrates . No difference in beta-hydroxybutyrate concentration was noted . CONCLUSIONS : Oral carbohydrate loading prior to cesarean delivery was associated with lower plasma purine levels in maternal and umbilical cord blood . Further work to understand the role of the purinergic pathway and ATP metabolism in maternal and neonatal health may guide interventions such as carbohydrate loading to optimize outcomes . TRIAL REGISTRATION : ClinicalTrials . gov identifier NCT04069806 .
The potential crosstalk between the host and gut microbiota ( GM ) under heavy metal compound pollution remains unexplored . Herein , using comprehensive analysis of metagenomics , metabolomics , behavioral analysis , and cell morphology to investigate the causal relationship between GM and host responses to cadmium ( Cd ) and lead ( Pb ) toxicities . Results indicate that Pb and Cd pollution , alone or together , hinder spider predatory behavior and change the composition and function of GM . Combined exposure reduces protein and exogenous compound metabolism , while single exposure affects energy and lipid metabolism . Gut microbiota helps spider antioxidant activity by increasing glutathione , lipoic acid , and L-cysteine . Oxidative damage , increased Enterobacteriaceae ( Salmonella ) , and lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) may harm the midgut barrier . Upregulation of choline and acetylcholine , and downregulation of spermidine , may initiate neurotoxicity . Inhibiting actinomycetes might boost sodium gallate for detoxifying single contaminants . Combined pollution detoxification may involve downregulation of indole synthesis metabolic bacteria , tryptophan , indole metabolites , cytochrome P450 ( CYP450 ) , and an increase in Desulfobulbia could remove heavy metals and reduce oxidative stress . Combined pollution has a synergistic effect , making the toxicity of multiple pollutants greater than their individual effects , impacting metal resistance genes ( MRGs ) , and antibiotic resistance ontology ( AROs ) which used for classifying and describing antibiotic resistance , midgut barrier integrity , oxidative stress , and detoxification . The results help to elucidate the interplay of GM and host ' s reactions , and aid in monitoring and bioremediation of heavy metal pollution .
Nephrotoxicity has seriously affected the clinical application of colistin methanesulphonate ( CMS ) . Colistin B methanesulphonate ( CMS-E2 ) is a novel polymyxin developed and aimed to have lower nephrotoxicity . This study aimed to investigate the relationships between pharmacokinetics ( PK ) and nephrotoxicity of CMS and CMS-E2 and compare the toxicity of the two drugs in rats . Rats were treated intraperitoneally with a single dose of saline , CMS [10 , 20 mg/kg of colistin base activity ( CBA ) ] , and CMS-E2 ( 20 , 40 mg/kg CBA ) . An LC-MS/MS method was developed to determine plasma and renal tissue concentrations of CMS/CMS-E2 and colistin/colistin B . The severity of renal injuries was examined both biochemically and histologically . The PK-toxicodynamic ( TD ) model was evaluated to characterize the PK of CMS/CMS-E2 and colistin/colistin B in plasma as well as its relationship with nephrotoxicity . Creatinine ( CR ) and blood urea nitrogen ( BUN ) profiles were described using an indirect link PK-TD model , with linear-effect relationship . Both the slope between colistin or colistin B concentrations in the effect compartment and CR , BUN was significantly lower for CMS-E2 compared with CMS ( CR : P = 027 , BUN : P = 043 ) . The concentrations of colistin and colistin B in kidneys were correlated with CR , BUN values , and histologic examination scores . The regression coefficient of CMS-E2 between the colistin B concentrations in renal tissues and CR , BUN values were lower , as well ( CR : P = 003 , BUN : P = 001 ) . The renal injuries induced by CMS and CMS-E2 lagged behind the change of plasma colistin or colistin B concentrations and correlated to those in kidneys . CMS-E2 showed significantly lower nephrotoxicity compared to CMS in vivo .
Thymus capitatus is a widely utilized medicinal plant in Palestine . The main goal of this study was to assess the phytochemical content of T . capitatus essential oils ( EOs ) from three Palestinian regions using hydro-distillation . Furthermore , the EO extracted from the plant was subjected to biological tests . GC-MS spectrometry was used to identify and quantify the elements in the EOs examined . The DPPH assay and the beta-carotene-linoleic acid assay were utilized to determine the levels of antioxidant activity . The plant ' s anti-lipase activity was carried out using a pancreatic lipase inhibition assay . alpha-amylase inhibitory activity of the EOs samples was studied compared with the hypoglycemic drug , Acarbose . An antimicrobial assay was conducted against seven common bacteria and fungi types . Additionally , Hep-G2 cells were used to assess the anticancer activity . The EO components were mainly monoterpenes , thymol , and carvacrol . Chemical components of the EOs varied between districts ( Ramallah : carvacrol ( 25% ) , gamma-terpinene ( 94% ) , Jenin : gamma-terpinene ( 67% ) , cis-b-terpineol ( 91% ) , Hebron : thymol ( 35% ) , b-Caryophyllene ( 23% ) were the main components of the EOs in the districts . The antioxidant activity of T . capitatus EOs was shown to be dose-dependent . The results showed that the three districts had nearly the same IC50 , a fourth-fold of gallic acid . The Hebron sample of T . capitatus EO showed antibacterial activity with MIC values between 1953 and 5625 microg/mL . All samples showed anti-lipase activity higher than Orlistat at concentrations equal to or above 200 microg/ml . Furthermore , all three EO samples inhibited alpha-amylase concentration-dependently . All samples showed promising cytotoxicity results against Hep-G2 , with an average percent inhibition of 85% at a concentration of 5 microg/mL . The chemical composition of the EO of T . capitatus is related to the plant ' s origin , soil components , genetic variables , and climatic conditions , which in turn reflect the plant ' s biological activity .
Atherosclerosis , a critical vascular complication frequently associated with diabetes mellitus , develops due to the synergistic effects of multiple pathological mechanisms . Toll-like receptor-2 ( TLR2 ) has been identified as a key contributor to the progression of a wide range of disorders . The primary goal of this research was to investigate the functional role of TLR2 in the context of diabetes mellitus-associated atherosclerosis ( DMA ) and to delineate the molecular pathways underlying its effects . The study enrolled 30 DMA patients and 30 healthy individuals . An in vitro model of DMA was developed to mimic the disease state . TLR2 expression levels were measured using RT-qPCR , while pyroptosis rates were assessed via flow cytometry . Western blot analysis was utilized to determine protein expression levels . Co-immunoprecipitation was performed to assess the interactions between TLR2 and myeloid differentiation primary response 88 ( MyD88 ) . A DMA mouse model was established . Oil red O staining were used to assess the effect of TLR2 on lipid deposition . Elevated levels of TLR2 were observed in both clinical samples from DMA patients and the experimental DMA cell model . The DMA model exhibited reduced cell viability , increased pyroptosis rates , elevated levels of pyroptosis-related proteins , and higher concentrations of interleukin ( IL ) -1beta and IL- These effects were reversed upon TLR2 inhibition . Furthermore , inhibition of TLR2 expression effectively blocked the activation of the MyD88/NF-kappaB signaling pathway . Conversely , TLR2 overexpression reduced cell viability , enhanced pyroptosis , and activated the MyD88/NF-kappaB pathway , effects that were counteracted by NF-kappaB inhibition . In in vivo study , silencing of TLR2 improved inflammation and atherosclerosis in diabetic mice . The results demonstrated that TLR2 drives the progression of DMA through the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and the MyD88/NF-kappaB signaling cascade . These findings suggested that TLR2 could be a promising target for therapeutic interventions aimed at treating DMA .
The relationship between the Triglyceride-Glucose ( TyG ) index and Obstructive Sleep Apnea Hypopnea Syndrome ( OSAHS ) remains unclear . This study aimed to investigate the association between TyG index-related parameters ( TyG , TyG-Body Mass Index ( BMI ) , TyG-Waist Circumference ( WC ) ) and OSAHS . Consecutive subjects referred to our sleep center were enrolled in this study and categorized into four groups based on the severity of OSAHS , as determined by the apnea-hypopnea index ( AHI ) . Multivariate regression analysis was performed to identify independent risk factors associated with TyG index-related parameters in OSAHS . The study included 1250 participants , categorized into 114 without OSAHS , 212 with mild OSAHS , 257 with moderate OSAHS , and 667 with severe OSAHS . Significant differences were observed in fasting glucose levels , TyG , TyG-BMI , and TyG-WC across increasing severity of OSAHS . Multivariate regression showed that TyG-BMI and TyG-WC were independently associated with oxygen desaturation index ( ODI ) , mean oxygen saturation ( MSO ) , and age ( all p < 05 ) . TyG was significantly associated with BMI , ODI , and sex ( all p < 05 ) . FPG was linked to BMI , age and MSO , while insulin was associated with lowest oxygen saturation ( LaSO ) and AHI ( all p < 05 ) . OSAHS-induced intermittent hypoxia is independently associated with increased TyG index-related parameters . These findings suggest that intermittent hypoxia may contribute to metabolic disturbances and insulin resistance , highlighting the need for further investigation into its clinical implications .
Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) diagnosis relies on cerebrospinal fluid ( CSF ) biomarkers or amyloid PET . Alternatives for AD diagnosis from blood samples are needed to develop a fully-automated early-diagnosis approach , potentially implemented in a cognitive disorder unit . Plasma p-Tau217 was determined in patients diagnosed with AD ( n = 134 ) or non-AD ( n = 132 ) , from CSF biomarkers ( Abeta42/Abeta40 ) . A logistic regression model was developed . The predictive performance was assessed using a training set ( 70% of data ) and internally validated with a test set ( 30% of data ) and 1000 iterations . A nomogram and a double cut-off strategy were proposed to visualize the model results , and stratify patients ( AD , non-AD , uncertain ) , respectively . The model ( plasma p-Tau217 , ApoE , age ) showed satisfactory performance ( AUC 94 , sensitivity 85 , specificity 89 ) ; so , together with the corresponding nomogram , it could be applied in specialized clinical contexts . The model including only plasma p-Tau217 ( AUC 93 , sensitivity 72 , specificity 96 ) would be a useful approach in less specialized clinics . The corresponding two-cut-off strategy for the first model were as AD probability ( < 41 non-AD , > 57 AD ) . This study provided clinical tools ( nomogram , double cut-off ) for identifying Abeta positivity at a cognitive disorder unit , which would lead to reduce the CSF analysis .
In European seabass ( Dicentrarchus labrax ) , dietary tryptophan ( TRP ) surplus has a notable modulatory effect on the hypothalamic-pituitary-interrenal axis under chronic stress and acute inflammation , affecting cortisol levels and neuroendocrine- and immune-related gene expression . A transcriptomic approach ( RNA-seq ) was applied to head-kidney samples of fish submitted to confinement stress and/or acute inflammation to uncover the biological mechanisms behind these effects . Undisturbed seabass fed dietary TRP supplementation showed an up-regulation of various innate immune functions , contrasting previous studies which indicated mainly a TRP regulatory role . Upon bacterial injection , TRP-fed fish showed a transcriptomic profile similar to their counterparts fed on control diet , indicating TRP ' s inability to modulate immune mechanisms under bacterial challenge . Under confinement stress , TRP-fed fish exhibited a molecular profile similar to unstressed control fish , highlighting TRP ' s role in mitigating stress . However , combining dietary TRP supplementation with confinement stress and immune stimulation by bacterial inoculation resulted in a unique molecular profile . Stressed fish fed TRP did not show the restorative effect of immune stimulation on carbohydrate metabolism and showed downregulated genes related to glycolysis and glycogenolysis . Additionally , transcription upregulation in these fish after bacterial injection included terms related to serine and steroid metabolism ( carboxyl ester lipase 2 ) , indicating tryptophan-induced changes in lipid mobilization in the head-kidney , potentially affecting cortisol synthesis and other hormones .
Protein synthesis in natural cells involves intricate interactions between chemical environments , protein-protein interactions , and protein machinery . Replicating such interactions in artificial and cell-free environments can control the precision of protein synthesis , elucidate complex cellular mechanisms , create synthetic cells , and discover new therapeutics . Yet , creating artificial synthesis environments , particularly for membrane proteins , is challenging due to the poorly defined chemical-protein-lipid interactions . Here , we introduce MEMPLEX ( Membrane Protein Learning and Expression ) , which utilizes machine learning and a fluorescent reporter to rapidly design artificial synthesis environments of membrane proteins . MEMPLEX generates over 20 , 000 different artificial chemical-protein environments spanning 28 membrane proteins . It captures the interdependent impact of lipid types , chemical environments , chaperone proteins , and protein structures on membrane protein synthesis . As a result , MEMPLEX creates new artificial environments that successfully synthesize membrane proteins of broad interest but previously intractable . In addition , we identify a quantitative metric , based on the hydrophobicity of the membrane-contacting amino acids , that predicts membrane protein synthesis in artificial environments . Our work allows others to rapidly study and resolve the " dark " proteome using predictive generation of artificial chemical-protein environments . Furthermore , the results represent a new frontier in artificial intelligence-guided approaches to creating synthetic environments for protein synthesis .
Pesticides can modulate gut microbiota composition , but their specific effects on it remain largely elusive . In our study , we show that pesticides inhibit or promote the growth of various gut microbial species and can be accumulated to prolong their presence in the host . Pesticide exposure also induces significant alterations in gut bacterial metabolism , as reflected by changes in hundreds of metabolites . We generate a pesticide-gut microbiota-metabolite network that not only reveals pesticide-sensitive gut bacteria species but also reports specific metabolic changes in 306 pesticide-gut microbiota pairs . Using an in vivo mouse model , we further demonstrate the interactions of a representative pesticide-gut microbiota pair and verify the inflammation-inducing effects of pesticide exposure on the host , mediated by microbially dysregulated lipid metabolism . Taken together , our findings generate a comprehensive atlas of pesticide-gut microbiota-metabolite interactions atlas and shed light on the molecular mechanisms by which pesticides affect host health via gut microbiota-modulated metabolism .
Abnormal metabolism is a hallmark of cancer , this was initially recognized nearly a century ago through the observation of aerobic glycolysis in cancer cells . Mitochondrial respiration can also drive tumor progression and metastasis . However , it remains largely unclear the mechanisms by which cancer cells mix and match different metabolic modalities ( oxidative/reductive ) and leverage various metabolic ingredients ( glucose , fatty acids , glutamine ) to meet their bioenergetic and biosynthetic needs . Here , we formulate a phenotypic model for cancer metabolism by coupling master gene regulators ( AMPK , HIF-1 , MYC ) with key metabolic substrates ( glucose , fatty acids , and glutamine ) . The model predicts that cancer cells can acquire four metabolic phenotypes : a catabolic phenotype characterized by vigorous oxidative processes-O , an anabolic phenotype characterized by pronounced reductive activities-W , and two complementary hybrid metabolic states-one exhibiting both high catabolic and high anabolic activity-W/O , and the other relying mainly on glutamine oxidation-Q . Using this framework , we quantified gene and metabolic pathway activity by developing scoring metrics based on gene expression . We validated the model-predicted gene-metabolic pathway association and the characterization of the four metabolic phenotypes by analyzing RNA-seq data of tumor samples from TCGA . Strikingly , carcinoma samples exhibiting hybrid metabolic phenotypes are often associated with the worst survival outcomes relative to other metabolic phenotypes . Our mathematical model and scoring metrics serve as a platform to quantify cancer metabolism and study how cancer cells adapt their metabolism upon perturbations , which ultimately could facilitate an effective treatment targeting cancer metabolic plasticity .
The proteomic and metabolomic differences in mice fed epsilon-polylysine were detected by high-throughput sequencing and screening . The effects of epsilon-polylysine on the proteome and metabolomics of C57 BL/6 J mice were studied . DIA proteome sequencing and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry ( LC-MS ) were used to compare epsilon-polylysine-modified mouse proteome and metabolome . In this study , we analyzed the regulatory effects of epsilon-polysine on glycerophospholipid metabolism , glutathione metabolism , and ABC transporters pathways . The sequencing data and LC-MS/MS raw data of samples are stored in MetaboLights and ProteomeXchange databases for efficient reuse and to explore the differences in metabolism and protein expression among mice fed with different levels of epsilon-polylysine , aiming to screen for critical proteins and differential metabolites in valuable regulatory pathways .
Lipopolysaccharide ( LPS ) and lipoprotein , two essential components of the outer membrane ( OM ) in Gram-negative bacteria , play critical roles in bacterial physiology and pathogenicity . LPS translocation to the OM is mediated by LptDE , yet how lipoproteins sort to the cell surface remains elusive . Here , we identify candidate lipoproteins that may be transported to the cell surface via LptDE . Notably , we determine the crystal structures of LptDE from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and its complex with an endogenous Escherichia coli lipoprotein LptM . The paLptDE-LptM structure demonstrates that LptM may translocate to the OM via LptDE , in a manner similar to LPS transport . The beta-barrel domain serves as a passage for the proteinaceous moiety while its acyl chains are transported outside . Our finding has been corroborated by results from native mass spectrometry , immunofluorescence , and photocrosslinking assays , revealing a potential surface exposed lipoproteins ( SLPs ) transport mechanism through which lipoproteins are loaded into LptA by LolCDE prior to assembly of the LptBFGCADE complex . These observations provide initial evidence of functional overlap between the Lpt and Lol pathways , potentially broadening current perspectives on lipoprotein sorting .
BACKGROUND AND AIM : Gut microbiota may regulate metabolism but is incompletely characterized in pregnancy . Our objective was to investigate the relations using omics techniques . METHODS AND RESULTS : In a cross-sectional setting , fecal and serum samples of 361 healthy pregnant women with overweight or obesity were analyzed with a combinatorial approach of metagenomics and targeted NMR-based metabolomics , with statistical and machine learning techniques to identify and analyze the extent to which the gut microbiota composition and predicted functions would be reflected in the serum metabolome . We identified five biclusters , each of which consisted of a set of gut microbial species and serum metabolites with correlated abundance profiles . Two of the biclusters included metabolites that have been linked to the cardiovascular health ; one was linked with factors known to increase the risk i . e . , various sizes of lipoprotein subclasses ( VLDL and LDL ) , subclasses of relative lipoprotein lipid concentrations ( VLDL , IDL , and LDL ) , apolipoprotein B , and an inflammation marker , glycoprotein acetylation . These metabolites were associated with abundances of species such as , Enterocloster bolteae and Ruminococcus gnavus . The second bicluster included metabolites linked with a reduced cardiovascular risk , such as different sizes of HDL ( high-density lipoprotein ) , subclasses for relative lipoprotein lipid concentrations and mean diameter for HDL particles , and fatty acid ratios . These metabolites were associated with abundances of species , such as Bacteroides cellulosilyticus and Alistipes finegoldii . We did not observe any biclusters between predicted pathways and serum metabolites . CONCLUSION : Overall , we identified five biclusters of co-abundant gut bacteria and serum metabolites , of which two were linked to pro-atherogenic and anti-atherogenic properties . TRIAL REGISTRATION : www . CLINICALTRIALS : Gov : NCT
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : To examine the impact of early-life lipid profile trajectories in adolescence on subclinical atherosclerosis , evidenced by carotid intima-media thickness ( cIMT ) in adulthood . METHODS AND RESULTS : In this trajectory analysis of 1 , 006 TLGS participants ( 472 male , mean age = 72 +/- 23 years ) with >/= 3 lipid measurements and 3-year follow-ups , latent class growth modeling was used to analyze heterogeneity in longitudinal lipid alterations ( total cholesterol [TC] , triglycerides [TG] , high-density lipoprotein cholesterol [HDL-C] , low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C] , and non-HDL-C ) . The association between lipid trajectories and cIMT values , both as continuous and categorical variable , were evaluated using multivariate regression analysis adjusted for age , sex , body mass index , and systolic blood pressure at the baseline , as well as antihypertensive and lipid-lowering drug use , smoking , physical activity , and desired lipid parameter at the nearest survey to cIMT measurement . During a median follow-up of 6 years ( 1999-2018 ) , the " Rising " trajectories of TC , TG , LDL-C , and non-HDL-C were linked to elevated cIMT values . " Rapid-Rising " trajectories of TG , LDL-C , and non-HDL-C notably amplified the risk ( odds ratios ( OR ) = 05 [46-75] , 99 [35-92] , and 02 [45-77] , respectively ) . Conversely , the " Decreasing " trajectories of TC , LDL-C , and TG were associated with lower cIMT measures ( beta-coefficient = -09 [-16 , -03] , -11 [-17 , -01] , and -08 [-14 , -02] , respectively ) ; also " Decreasing " trajectories of the two former lowered the risk by at least 30 % . While HDL-C " Rapid-Decreasing " trajectory doubled the risk of elevated cIMT ( OR = 98 [47-68] ) . CONCLUSIONS : The findings showed unfavorable trajectory alterations in all lipid parameters were significantly associated with higher cIMT values , underscoring the need for sustained efforts to monitor lipid levels from early adolescence .
AIMS : This review aims to address current research gaps and evaluate the effectiveness and safety of probiotic and synbiotic supplementation in patients with metabolic syndrome ( MetS ) . DATA SYNTHESIS : Four databases ( PubMed , Cochrane , Embase , and Web of Science ) were searched to find the randomized controlled trials published up to October 20 , Anthropometric measurements , glucose , blood pressure and lipid metabolism were main outcomes , inflammatory markers , liver function , and etc . were the secondary outcomes . A meta-analysis was conducted by Review Manager 4 and STATA In addition , sensitivity analysis and subgroup analysis were conducted to assess the stability of outcomes and potential sources of heterogeneity . Twenty-four full-text articles met the inclusion criteria , involving 1186 patients . The pooled analysis demonstrated significant reductions in body weight ( WMD : -79 kg ; p = 001 ) , waist circumference ( WMD : -04 cm ; p = 0007 ) , total cholesterol ( SMD : -14 ; p = 03 ) , triglyceride ( SMD : -25 ; p = 0001 ) , fasting blood glucose ( SMD : -20 ; p = 003 ) , and insulin levels ( SMD : -17 ; p = 03 ) . Additionally , the probiotic and synbiotic group showed increased high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( SMD : 15 ; p = 02 ) . Subgroup analysis implied that age <50 years , intervention duration <12 weeks , and Asian patients may have better curative effects . No significant increase in adverse reactions was reported . CONCLUSIONS : Probiotic and synbiotic supplementation can effectively improve body composition , lipid metabolism , and glucose metabolism in MetS patients without increasing adverse reactions . Further rigorous and long-term trials are required to validate these results and refine intervention details .
BACKGROUND : The relationship between lifestyle and overall health has garnered significant attention . This study aimed to evaluate the association between lifestyle factors and diabetic nephropathy ( DN ) in adults aged 18-64 years . MATERIALS AND METHODS : We conducted a cross-sectional study involving 2 , 389 participants from the 2007-2018 National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES ) . The use of the Healthy Eating Index ( HEI ) , Metabolic Equivalent of Task ( MET ) , sleeping duration , smoking , and drinking status as indicators to assess lifestyle . Logistic regression analyses and restricted cubic splines were used to analyze the results . A subgroup analysis was performed to identify any variations . RESULTS : Logistic regression analysis indicates that poor HEI and sleep duration but not physical activity are associated with an increased risk of DN . Subgroup analyses revealed significant interactions between HEI and age , blood pressure , HbA1c , and lipid control ; MET interacted with blood pressure and HbA1c control ; Sleeping duration interacted with age , smoking , blood pressure , HbA1c , and lipid control ; Smoking interacted with age , blood pressure control , and lipid control ; Drinking interacted with blood pressure control . Moreover , restricted cubic splines indicated that with increasing HEI , the prevalence of DN tended to decrease . However , the associations between the other two lifestyle factors ( MET level and sleeping duration ) and DN were all U-shaped . CONCLUSIONS : Lifestyle factors are closely associated with diabetic nephropathy . Both unhealthy eating habits and inadequate or excessive sleeping duration and physical activity contribute to an increased risk of diabetic nephropathy , whereas no statistically significant association is observed in smoking and drinking .
A 4-year-old girl with ring chromosome 14 , epilepsy , global developmental delay , and failure to thrive presented for a preoperative assessment for gastrostomy tube ( G-tube ) insertion and was incidentally found to be hypoxemic , with saturations of 81% in room air . There was no history of fever or upper respiratory tract infection symptoms ; however , her parents described a progressive history of choking and emesis with feeds over 3 months . Chest radiograph demonstrated patchy alveolar opacities in the right lower and middle lobes . She was admitted to the hospital and treated with supplemental oxygen and IV ampicillin for a suspected aspiration pneumonia . On day 3 of her admission , because of persistent hypoxemia despite high-flow nasal cannula support at 2 L/kg/min with an Fio of 6 to 7 , and frequent need for suctioning of thick yellow secretions , she was transferred to the PICU for escalation to noninvasive ventilation . Because of poor response after 7 days , and respiratory secretions showing moderate growth of Klebsiella oxytoca and light growth of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia , sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim was added . Azithromycin was also started on day 8 to cover atypical pathogens , then discontinued when Mycoplasma pneumoniae polymerase chain reaction was negative .
Genetic and epidemiological evidence indicates that triglyceride-rich lipoproteins are causal risk factors for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) . Elevated levels of plasma triglyceride are common in patients who are diabetic or obese and contribute substantially to residual , ongoing risk of an ASCVD event in individuals on low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) -lowering treatment . Hypertriglyceridaemia , therefore , presents a target for further intervention . Clinical trials have demonstrated that high-dose eicosapentaenoic acid ( EPA ) is effective in reducing ASCVD risk in patients on statin therapy , and it is now being incorporated into strategies using combination lipid-regulating treatment to manage aggressively those at highest risk . This review summarises the concepts underpinning the use of high-dose EPA alongside intensive LDL-lowering therapy , especially in the context of post-acute coronary syndrome . A practical implementation algorithm is presented setting out treatment options for combination therapy , and the place of high-dose EPA in ASCVD prevention in hypertriglyceridaemia .
Long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( LC-PUFAs ) , especially very long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( VLC-PUFAs ) , are highly beneficial to human health including brain development , cardiovascular health and the immune system . Plant-derived edible oils serve as crucial dietary sources of PUFAs for humans . However , oilseed crops such as soybean , peanut , rapeseed , sesame and flax , generally contain insufficient content of LC-PUFAs and do not naturally produce VLC-PUFAs . This review discusses PUFA biosynthesis , current efforts on LC-PUFA bioengineering in oilseed crops , comparing the advantages of different genetic engineering strategies and highlights the bottlenecks encountered in this field . Combination of high-efficient enzymes from various species has enabled the improvement of LC-PUFAs and slight production of VLC-PUFAs , though under risk of generational instability . These and future intelligently designed enzymes with multidisciplinary approaches in molecular biology , biochemistry and plant physiology can be crucial in developing oilseed crops that meet the growing demand for LC-PUFAs .
Intracellular sigma-1 receptors ( sigma receptors ) have a versatile function through the regulation of lipid rafts , neuroreceptors and ion channels , and can influence signal transduction and neuronal plasticity . Since decreased activity of sigma receptors is a common pathological feature in the early stages of many neurological diseases , sigma receptor agonists may represent a promising therapeutic tool for the treatment of these disorders . In this study , we aimed to comprehensively investigate the potential protective effects of the novel synthetic sigma receptor agonist ( S ) -L1 against endothelial endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) stress and cerebral ischemia . In binding affinity experiments , we showed that ( S ) -L1 has a high affinity and selectivity for sigma receptor with virtually no affinity for any of the other receptors tested . Next , ( S ) -L1 exerted protection against endoplasmic reticulum stress in human brain endothelial cells , consistent with the localization of sigma receptors in endothelial cells . Furthermore , ( S ) -L1 penetration was demonstrated across the cell culture model of the blood-brain barrier , providing a rationale for neuronal action in addition to endothelial protection . Finally , ( S ) -L1 inhibited spreading depolarization , suppressed apoptosis and rescued astrocytes in a rat model of cerebral ischemia . Based on our results , ( S ) -L1 exerts a protective effect on both brain endothelial cells and neural tissue . Moreover , since these experiments revealed no affinity for serotonergic receptors , the compound holds promise as an adjuvant therapy for the treatment of cerebrovascular disease without potential psychedelic side effects .
Adult tissue function is dependent on intrinsic factors that mediate stem cell self-renewal and proliferation in response to changes in physiology and the environment . The estrogen-related receptor ( ERR ) subfamily of orphan nuclear receptors are major transcriptional regulators of metabolism and animal physiology . In mammals , ERRs ( NR3B1 , NR3B2 , NR3B3 ) have roles in regulating mitochondrial biosynthesis , lipid metabolism , as well as stem cell maintenance . The sole Drosophila ERR ortholog promotes larval growth by establishing a metabolic state during the latter half of embryogenesis . In addition , ERR is required in adult Drosophila males to coordinate glycolytic metabolism with lipid synthesis and within the testis to regulate spermatogenesis gene expression and fertility . Despite extensive work characterizing the role of ERR in Drosophila metabolism , whether ERR has a conserved requirement in regulating stem cell behavior has been understudied . To determine whether ERR regulates stem cell activity in Drosophila , we used the established adult female germline stem cell ( GSC ) lineage as a model . We found that whole-body ERR knockout in adult females using conditional heat shock-driven FLP-FRT recombination significantly decreases GSC number and glycolytic enzyme expression in GSCs . In addition , we found that ERR activity is required cell-autonomously in the adult female germline for maintenance of GSCs ; whereas ERR regulation of GSCs is independent of its activity in adult female adipocytes . Our results highlight an ancient and conserved role for ERRs in the regulation of stem cell self-renewal .
ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE : Inonotus obliquus ( Fr . ) Pilat , a traditional medicinal fungi , has been used to treat diabetes in China and Russia since the 16th century . Recent studies show Inonotus obliquus ( Fr . ) Pilat polysaccharides ( IOP ) have hypoglycemic and lipid-lowering effects in type 2 diabetes mellitus ( T2DM ) mice and can recover liver insulin resistance . AIM OF THE STUDY : This study aims to assess the effect of IOP and its mechanisms in ameliorating insulin resistance and lipid metabolism disorders in T2DM . MATERIALS AND METHODS : The potential targets of IOP for T2DM were identified by network pharmacology and molecular docking . In vitro , an insulin resistance model in C2C12 cells was induced , and IOP ' s effects on glucose uptake , glycogen , lipid content , and lipid metabolism-related mRNAs were assessed . In vivo , a T2DM mice model was established . Blood glucose , lipids , glucose tolerance , and insulin sensitivity were evaluated . Histopathology was used to assess morphological changes in mice skeletal muscle . Western blotting was utilized to evaluate the expression levels of PI3K/AKT and AMPK/ACC1/CPT1 signaling pathway proteins both in vivo and in vitro . RESULTS : Network pharmacology results showed IOP and T2DM targets were enriched in PI3K/AKT , insulin resistance , and lipid metabolism pathways . Cell experiments showed IOP enhanced glucose uptake and glycogen content , reduced lipid content , and improved lipid deposition in insulin-resistant C2C12 cells . Animal experiments showed IOP improved hyperglycemia and hyperlipidemia , enhanced glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity , and reduced insulin resistance in T2DM mice . Western blot showed IOP activated PI3K/AKT and AMPK/ACC1/CPT1 pathways , promoting GLUT4 expression and translocation , and GSK3beta phosphorylation . CONCLUSIONS : In summary , the results indicated that IOP was able to ameliorate lipid-induced skeletal muscle insulin resistance in T2DM . The mechanism may be related to the PI3K/AKT and AMPK/ACC1/CPT1 signaling pathways .
Solid tumors present significant therapeutic challenges due to their complex pathophysiology , including poor vascularization , dense extracellular matrix , multidrug resistance , and immune evasion . Conventional treatment strategies , such as chemotherapy , radiotherapy , and surgical interventions , are often associated with systemic toxicity , suboptimal drug accumulation at the tumor site , and chemoresistance . Nanostructured lipid carriers ( NLCs ) have emerged as a promising approach to enhance anticancer therapy . NLCs offer several advantages , including high drug loading capacity , improved bioavailability , controlled release , and enhanced stability . Recent advancements in active targeting strategies have led to the development of ligand-decorated NLCs , which exhibit selective tumor targeting , improved cellular uptake , and reduced systemic toxicity . By functionalizing NLCs with different targeting ligands , site-specific drug delivery can be achieved for better therapeutic efficacy . This review comprehensively explores the potential of ligand-decorated NLCs in solid tumor therapy , highlights their design principles , and mechanisms of tumor targeting . Furthermore , it discusses various receptor-targeted NLCs for the effective treatment of solid tumors . The potential of ligand-decorated NLCs in combination therapy , gene therapy , photothermal therapy , and photodynamic therapy is also explored . Overall , ligand-decorated NLCs represent a versatile and effective strategy to achieve better therapeutic outcomes in solid tumor therapy .
Inhaled bacteriophage ( phage ) therapy is emerging as a promising approach to combat multidrug-resistant ( MDR ) respiratory pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa . Aerosol delivery by nebulization poses challenges for maintaining phage stability , often resulting in titer losses due to mechanical stresses . This study evaluated the use of liposomal encapsulation to protect phages during nebulization . Two P . aeruginosa phages , PEV2 ( short-tail ) and PEV40 ( long-tail ) , were selected for this work . Liposomes were prepared using DSPC , cholesterol , Tween 80 , and cationic lipid DOTAP . Encapsulation efficiencies were 78 % for PEV2 and 90 % for PEV40 , with mean particle sizes of 300 nm and 650 nm , respectively . Nebulization by jet and vibrating mesh devices showed that the liposome-encapsulated phages were able to preserve viability , with titer losses below 4 log ( PEV40 ) and 07 log ( PEV2 ) . In contrast , non-encapsulated phages experienced titer reductions of up to 23 log , especially by jet nebulization . Vibrating mesh nebulization generated slightly larger droplets ( approximately 6 microm ) but with better phage recovery ( > 90 % ) and respirable fractions ( > 70 % ) for both types of phages encapsulated in liposomes . These results demonstrate that the approach of lipid encapsulation effectively protects phages from mechanical damage during nebulization , maintaining bioactivity for aerosol delivery to enhance the success of inhaled phage therapy .
Doxorubicin ( Dox ) -induced cardiotoxicity in patients with cancer , mediated primarily through cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and mitochondrial dysfunction , presents both life-threatening risks and significant limitations to Dox chemotherapeutic efficacy . The study investigated the therapeutic potential and mechanistic role of Maresin1-a novel proinflammatory regression mediator ( SPM ) -in Dox-induced cardiomyocyte ferroptosis . We employed both in vitro and in vivo models : H9C2 cells and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes ( hiPSC-CMs ) for in vitro ferroptosis modeling and C57BL/6 mice for in vivo validation . Our key findings showed that Maresin1 in Dox-treated cardiomyocytes attenuated lipid peroxidation , upregulated the anti-ferroptosis-related protein expression via the NRF2/GPX4 axis and mitigated mitochondrial structural and functional impairment . However , inhibition of NRF2 signaling abolished the cardioprotective effects of Maresin1 against Dox-induced ferroptosis . In conclusion , Maresin1 preserved cardiac function by preventing Dox-associated cardiomyocyte ferroptosis and mitochondrial impairment through the NRF2/GPX4 axis activation .
Studies have shown that UHRF1 can affect the expression of target genes by regulating DNA methylation , which may be related to the mechanism of cancer cell death , especially ferroptosis . In this study , HuH7 and HepG2 hepatoma cell lines were used . Intracellular GSH/GSSG and NADP+/NADPH levels were assessed to analyze REDOX status , and lipid peroxidation was assessed using lipid peroxidation level assays . The regulation of GSTZ1 by UHRF1 and its modification through DNA methylation were explored . UHRF1 silencing significantly inhibited the growth and reproduction of liver cancer cells , led to iron death in HuH7 and HepG2 cells , and caused REDOX imbalance and lipid peroxidation . Further analysis showed that UHRF1 regulates iron death in liver cancer cells by mediating the expression of GSTZ UHRF1 can down-regulate the expression of GSTZ1 through DNA methylation modification . The study revealed that UHRF1 protein inhibits the expression of GSTZ1 by regulating DNA methylation , thereby affecting the iron death of liver cancer cells .
In this work , calcined orange peel and rice husk ash waste , an agricultural by-product were mixed to generate a solid base catalyst for biodiesel generation . This catalyst was used to create biodiesel from Nigella sativa seed oil . The objective was to create and describe a heterogeneous catalyst for transesterification that was both affordable and sustainable , utilizing orange peel and rice husk as the main waste materials . To produce ash , rice husks are first calcined for 5 h at 600 degrees C , followed by orange peels for 2 h at 700 degrees C . After that , the ash is mixed in different proportions ( 20 % , 30 % , and 40 % ) and calcined again for 3 h at 600 degrees C in a muffle furnace . The 40 % ratio showed the most promising characteristics for the manufacture of biodiesel out of all the ash combinations . This specific mixture , which has the following elemental ratios according to SEM-EDS : O ( 0 % ) , Si ( 2 % ) , Ca ( 4 % ) , C ( 0 % ) , K ( 5 % ) and Mg ( 5 % ) , was chosen due to its catalytic properties . It also has a large surface area of 8058 m/g and a pore size of 69 A . Wet impregnation was used to create the catalyst , which was then studied by scanning electron microscopy ( SEM ) , X-ray diffraction ( XRD ) , surface area and pore size distribution characterization , and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy ( FTIR ) . A catalyst with an ideal methanol-to-oil molar ratio of 3 : 1 , a 1-hour reaction period , and 7 % catalyst loading produced a 36 % biodiesel yield . Gas chromatography was used to ascertain the composition of fatty acid methyl ester ( FAME ) , and the biodiesel ' s characteristics , including density , viscosity , acid value , and calorific value , were examined . The outcome showed that the rice husk ash catalyst supported by orange peel was very efficient at producing biodiesel and had good recyclability , holding its effectiveness for up to five cycles . The waste-derived catalyst was shown to be a better alternative for producing biodiesel when the biodiesel generated fulfilled ASTM criteria . Furthermore , the use of orange peel and rice husk in catalyst creation not only offers a sustainable option but also resolves trash disposal issues .
Goat milk is a vital component of China ' s dairy industry , renowned for its richness in lipids essential to human health . Polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) , such as docosahexaenoic acid ( C22 : 6n-3 , DHA ) , are particularly valuable for their integration into phospholipids and triacylglycerols . While mammary cells can uptake and channel PUFAs into lipids for milk fat secretion , the broader functional effects of DHA within these cells remain unclear . This study demonstrated that DHA supplementation markedly altered levels of lipid subclasses in goat mammary epithelial cells ( GMECs ) , as revealed by lipidomic analysis . DHA treatment significantly increased the levels of free DHA , alongside DHA-enriched triacylglycerols , phosphatidylcholine , phosphatidylethanolamine , and phosphatidylserine , thereby driving lipid remodeling in GMECs . Additionally , DHA modulated transcription of key fatty acid metabolism genes , such as SREBP1 , FASD2 , and FASN . Mechanistically , DHA supplementation activated the AMPK signaling pathway inhibiting fatty acid metabolism , and upregulated the expression of fatty acid transport gene-CD36 in GMECs . Knockdown or mutation of the fatty acid binding domain of CD36 diminished DHA-induced AMPK activation and transcriptional regulation of fatty acid metabolism genes in GMECs . In summary , DHA supplementation induces lipid remodeling in GMECs via the CD36-AMPK signaling axis , highlighting its potential to facilitate the development of DHA-enriched functional goat milk .
Bile Arisaema , a traditional Chinese medicine , has been previously identified by our team to possess antipyretic properties attributed to its polysaccharide component . Recently , we have confirmed that bile Arisaema played a significantly lipid-lowering effect on hyperlipidemia rats . Building upon this discovery , the present study aimed to investigate the unexplored hypolipidemic potential of its polysaccharide component and elucidate the underlying mechanisms . A soluble polysaccharide fraction devoid of free proteins , named BAPs , was extracted from bile Arisaema using a combination of hot water extraction , alcohol precipitation , and the Sevage method . The structural characteristics of BAPs were preliminarily elucidated through monosaccharide composition analysis ( mainly composed of glucose ) , molecular weight distribution ( 74 kDa and 87 kDa ) , and glycosyl linkage analysis via methylation . The results of animal experiment demonstrated that oral administration of BAPs ( 400 mg/kg/day ) for four weeks significantly improved abnormal serum lipid levels , hepatic function and histopathological injury on high-fat diet-induced hyperlipidemia rats . Mechanistically , the results of high throughput sequencing indicated that BAPs intake markedly altered the hepatic and fecal metabolome and lipidome , while also modulating gut microbiota composition and improving intestinal barrier integrity . Spearman ' s correlation analysis unveiled closely associations between the altered microbes , lipids , metabolites and serum biochemical indicators . Western blotting and qRT-PCR analyses further confirmed that these metabolic improvements were mediated by the regulation of key genes involved in lipid metabolism . Collectively , this study demonstrated that BAP supplementation effectively improved serum lipid profiles in hyperlipidemia rats by modulating metabolic disorders and restoring gut homeostasis .
Protein secretion is indispensable for essential cellular processes in eukaryotic cells , contributing significantly to nutrient acquisition , defense or communication . Alternative pathways bypassing the endomembrane system collectively referred to as unconventional secretion are gaining increasing attention . A number of important molecules such as cytokines , fibroblast growth factor or viral proteins are being exported through these mechanistically diverse pathways . In the fungal model Ustilago maydis , cytokinesis-dependent unconventional secretion mediates export of the chitinase Cts1 via the fragmentation zone . This membrane-rich compartment is formed between mother and daughter cells during cytokinesis . Recently , we identified Jps1 , a previously uncharacterized protein , as a crucial factor for Cts1 localization and export . Combining biochemical experiments and in vivo studies , we here uncover two pivotal features of Jps1 : dimerization and phosphoinositide ( PIP ) binding . Our findings reveal that a conserved structural core domain mediates homodimerization , while surrounding flexible variable regions suggest potential diversification in different basidiomycete species . Jps1 does not harbor a canonical PIP-binding domain but instead specificity of the interaction with the preferred PIP PI ( 4 , 5 ) P is determined by basic residues . Importantly , loss of PI ( 4 , 5 ) P binding specificity results in mislocalisation , morphological defects and reduced extracellular Cts1 activity , particularly at low cell densities . Our discoveries shed light on previously unknown key features of Jps1 and represents a crucial step towards understanding the broader implications of unconventional secretion in eukaryotic cells .
CD36 palmitoylation increases its membrane localization and is required for CD36-mediated uptake of oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( oxLDL ) . Acid sphingomyelinase ( ASMase ) is transported to the plasma membrane , where it promotes lipid raft clustering , facilitating membrane protein anchoring for biological functions . We here investigated the effects of oxLDL on CD36 palmitoylation and explored the role of ASMase in CD36 membrane translocation . We found that oxLDL increased CD36 palmitoylation and drives its intracellular trafficking from the endoplasmic reticulum to plasma membrane lipid rafts in macrophages . Affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry analysis identified CD36 bound to ASMase in plasma membrane . The CD36/ASMase binding was enhanced by oxLDL treatment . Genetic ablation and pharmacological inhibition of ASMase reduced CD36 recruitment to lipid rafts , and inhibited CD36 intracellular signaling and lipid uptake . Moreover , inhibiting Sortilin to block ASMase intracellular trafficking and reduce membrane ASMase also caused a sharp decrease in amount of membrane CD In addition , ASMase overexpression dramatically promoted palmitoylated CD36 membrane localization but not CD36 without palmitoylation , in which the modification was inhibited by 2-bromopalmitate ( 2-BP ) treatment or point mutation at the palmitoylation site . Moreover , ASMase knockout inhibited CD36 membrane recruitment both in peritoneal macrophages and in aorta , and attenuated lipid accumulation in atherosclerotic plaques in mice . Finally , we found oxLDL activated extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 ( ERK1/2 ) /specificity protein ( SP1 ) signaling , upregulating ASMase transcription and promoting sphingomyelin catabolism . Therefore , these data demonstrate that ASMase expression induced by oxLDL is required for palmitoylated CD36 membrane translocation during foam cell formation in macrophages .
Pancreatic cancer ( PC ) is a highly lethal and aggressive malignancy , currently one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths worldwide , in both women and men . PC is highly resistant to standard chemotherapy ( CT ) because its immunosuppressive and hypoxic tumor microenvironment and a dense desmoplastic stroma compartment extensively limit drug accessibility and perfusion . Although CT is one of the main therapeutic strategies for PC management contributing to tumor eradication through a cytotoxic effect , CT is associated with a poor pharmacokinetic profile and provokes deleterious systemic toxicity . This low efficacy-poor safety scenario urgently calls for innovative and highly specific therapeutic strategies to counteract this urgent clinical challenge . Nanotechnology-based precision materials for cancer may help improve drug stability and minimize the systemic cytotoxic effects by increasing drug tumor accumulation and also enabling controlled release , but several drawbacks still persist , such as the poor targeting efficiency . In the last few years increased attention has been paid to bioinspired nanosystems that can mimic either partially or totally biological systems , including lipid layers as suitable stealth coatings resembling the composition of cell membranes , lipoprotein- and blood protein-based nanosystems , and cell membrane-derived systems , such as extracellular vesicles , cell membrane nanovesicles and cell membrane-coated nanosystems , which display intrinsic cancer-targeting abilities , enhanced biocompatibility , decreased immunogenicity , and prolonged blood circulation profile . This review covers the recent breakthroughs on advanced biomimetic PC-targeted nanosystems , focusing on their design , properties and applications as innovative , multifunctional and versatile tools paving the way to improved PC diagnosis and treatment .
Aging is a multifaceted biological process marked by a gradual decline in physiological functions , driven by cellular senescence , oxidative stress , chronic inflammation , and stem cell exhaustion . Extracellular vesicles ( EVs ) , naturally occurring nanoscale vesicles secreted by various cell types , have gained attention as potential therapeutic agents due to their ability to mediate intercellular communication by delivering bioactive molecules , including proteins , lipids , and RNAs . This review provides a comprehensive overview of EV biogenesis , cargo composition , and their mechanistic roles in counteracting aging processes . EVs from diverse sources-such as mesenchymal stem cells , embryonic stem cells , dermal fibroblasts , and colostrum-exhibit regenerative properties by modulating immune responses , enhancing tissue repair , and promoting extracellular matrix homeostasis . Recent preclinical and clinical studies further highlight their potential in addressing age-related diseases and skin rejuvenation . However , significant challenges remain , including standardization of EV production , large-scale manufacturing , safety profiling , and regulatory approval . By leveraging advancements in EV engineering , targeted delivery systems , and combination strategies with existing anti-aging interventions , EV-based therapies hold promise as next-generation approaches in regenerative medicine and longevity enhancement .
BACKGROUND : Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury ( IRI ) is a complex pathophysiological process characterized by oxidative stress and inflammatory responses during tissue reperfusion , leading to severe organ dysfunction . Macrophages , as key immune cells , play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of IRI , exhibiting dynamic functions that influence both tissue damage and repair . Despite extensive research , the precise mechanisms underlying macrophage-mediated IRI remain incompletely understood , necessitating a comprehensive review to explore their multifaceted roles and potential therapeutic targets . AIM OF REVIEW : This review aims to elucidate the diverse roles of macrophages in IRI , focusing on their involvement in programmed cell death mechanisms , communication with other immune cells , and regulatory effects on key organs affected by IRI . The review also explores potential therapeutic strategies targeting macrophages to mitigate IRI-induced injury . Key Scientific Concepts of Review : This article reviews the multifaceted roles of macrophages in IRI and explores various modes of macrophage programmed cell death induced by IRI , including gasdermin D-mediated pyroptosis , lipid peroxidation-associated ferroptosis , PARP-1-mediated PAR-dependent cell death , PANoptosis regulated by the PANoptosome , and the formation of macrophage extracellular traps ( METs ) induced by both reactive oxygen species-dependent and -independent pathways . Additionally , it discusses intercellular communication between macrophages and other immune cells in IRI , focusing on the bidirectional regulatory effects between macrophages and neutrophils , as well as their synergistic role in resolving inflammation . Moreover , the regulatory mechanisms of macrophages in IRI affecting key organs , such as the brain , lung , heart , kidneys and liver , have been systematically summarized . Finally , innovative therapeutic strategies targeting macrophages , including precise approaches such as regulating cell polarization , inhibiting excessive METs formation , and utilizing nano-drug delivery systems , are thoroughly analyzed . This review provides a significant theoretical foundation for clinical translational research on IRI .
The development of synthetic modulators for human free fatty acid receptors ( FFARs ) has gained attention for addressing diabetes , metabolic syndrome , and dyslipidaemia . A new dual FFAR1 ( GPR40 ) and FFAR4 ( GPR120 ) agonist , DFL23916 , was recently identified to improve glucose homeostasis , prompting investigations into its effects on metabolic disorders . This study assessed the selectivity and toxicity of DFL23916 in vitro and evaluated its effects in vivo using Drosophila melanogaster models of high-sugar ( HSD ) and high-fat diets ( HFD ) . DFL23916 showed no off-target activities with no toxicity/hepatotoxicity in cultured cells . In adult HSD-fed flies with defective mobility , the oral administration of DFL23916 enhanced climbing speed in a concentration-dependent manner and reduced the high content of glucose and triglyceride levels alongside markers of insulin resistance . The compound did not affect viability and food intake of flies exposed to chronic overcaloric conditions but it inhibited the progressive weight gain . Similarly , larvae development remained unaffected by DFL23916 , while it counteracted glucose and triglyceride elevation and reduced lipid droplet size caused by HSD and HFD . Finally , in silico analysis highlighted the relevance of evolutionary conserved Drosophila receptors in fatty acid sensing , suggesting putative candidates for DFL23916 binding . Collectively , these findings indicated the safe profile of DFL23916 and its efficacy in ameliorating hyperglycaemic and hyperlipidaemic features in overcaloric fed flies . Our results not only suggest that DFL23916 could be a potential candidate for further investigation in the context of metabolic disorders but also reinforce D . melanogaster as a valuable model for the preclinical evaluation of metabolic interventions , including FFAR-targeting strategies .
Despite significant advancements in targeted tumor therapies , the emergence of drug resistance remains a complex challenge . Cholesterol accumulation within tumor cells plays a crucial role in mediating drug resistance through various mechanisms , including altered membrane dynamics , enhanced drug efflux , and activation of survival signaling pathways . Targeting cholesterol metabolism presents an innovative strategy to enhance therapeutic sensitivity , particularly in breast cancer . Consequently , ongoing preclinical studies and clinical trials involving cholesterol-lowering agents indicate a promising direction for improving treatment outcomes in tumors . The combination of these agents with existing therapeutic regimens may lead to enhanced efficacy , highlighting the necessity for continued research in this vital area . This review examines the impact of cholesterol metabolism on drug resistance in tumors , particularly solid tumors , identifies therapeutic targets in this metabolic pathway ( with a special focus on breast cancer ) , and discusses recent advances in cholesterol-lowering drugs in preclinical , as well as those that have entered clinical trials .
Dendrimers and dendrimer-based self-assembly systems have emerged as promising nanocarriers for a variety of applications , including anti-cancer therapies , modulation of the tumor microenvironment , and imaging . Here , we explored the therapeutic potential of two charged dendrimers , dendritic polyglycerol sulfate ( dPGS ) and dendritic polyglycerol amine ( dPGA ) , in the context of glioblastoma multiforme ( GBM ) . Docosahexaenoic acid ( DHA ) has shown potential in GBM . We therefore examined dPGS and dPGA effects alone and in combination with DHA . Using 2D cell models and 3D tumoroids , we showed that DHA with dPGA reduced tumor integrity and cell viability . dPGS reduced oxidative stress , whereas dPGA reduced lysosomal acidification , contributing to cellular dysfunction . Both dendrimers influence the interaction between high mobility group box 1 ( HMGB1 ) and the receptor for advanced glycation end products ( RAGE ) . The surfaces of the HMGB1-RAGE complex provide binding sites for interactions of charged molecules like dPGS and dPGA , suggesting the contribution of these interactions to cytotoxicity . In summary , our findings show that combining DHA with charged dendrimers ( dPGS and dPGA ) enhances GBM cytotoxicity through several mechanisms , involving lysosomal alkalinization , lipid peroxidation and modulation of the HMGB1-RAGE complex .
Artificial lipid droplets ( aLDs ) provide a useful tool to explore the multiple functionalities of intracellular lipid droplets ( LDs ) . In this study we explored the dynamics and potential multidisciplinary applications of these lipid particles . We have optimised construction of fluorescently labelled aLDs to allow their tracking in various in vitro and in vivo models . Modifying the phospholipid membrane of aLDs achieved enhanced delivery efficiency to a broad range of cells with various origins leading to a wide biodistribution of aLDs to organ systems in both mice and zebrafish models . The broad targeting and stability of this new generation of aLDs holds promise to now utilise aLDs as a novel delivery system as well as offering a toolset for further investigation on intracellular LD dynamics and function . STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE : Artificial lipid droplets ( aLDs ) are a novel nanoparticle tool for biomedical research , consisting of a phospholipid monolayer with a neutral core interior . They offer new opportunities for the delivery of lipids and proteins in vivo ; however , the ability of aLD lipid composition to drive enhanced cellular delivery remains unexplored . Here , we demonstrate that enhancing aLD phospholipid complexity significantly increases in vitro cellular delivery across multiple cell types and offers broad organ biodistribution , including delivery to the brain , in both mice and zebrafish . These findings highlight aLDs as potential vehicles in both basic biological studies and therapeutic interventions . Additionally , increasing the complexity of phospholipids into alternate nanoparticles such as LNPs may enhance organ biodistribution , thus opening the field up to new opportunities for cargo to reach previously undeliverable areas .
Liver disease is a serious threat to health worldwide . Flavonoids from Suaeda glauca ( SGF ) is able to alleviate liver lipid peroxidation . However , it is unclear whether SGF could protect against liver glycogen accumulation , inflammation and fibrosis . In this study , the extraction conditions of SGF were optimized with response surface methodology . The qualitative analysis of components in SGF was carried out by a LC-MS/MS method . Moreover , SGF was administered orally to male mice given 10 % carbon tetrachloride ( CCl ) for 4 weeks at doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg once daily for 4 weeks . The optimal extraction conditions of SGF were as follows : the ratio of material to liquid 1 : 35 , the temperature 67 degrees C , the time 3 h , and the ethanol concentration 89 % . Thirty-five compounds were preliminarily identified in SGF . Furthermore , SGF could significantly improve liver dysfunction , regulate the hepatic protein levels of glucose-6-phosphatase , glycogen synthase , glycogen phosphorylase L , Laforin , interleukin-1beta , gasdermin-D , NOD-like receptor ( NLR ) family , pyrin domain containing 3 inflammasome , alpha-smooth muscle actin , the hepatic mRNA levels and enzyme activities of matrix metallopeptidase 9 , tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases 1 , and collagen 1alpha1 , reduce the liver glycogen accumulation , inflammation and fibrosis in mice induced by CCl . These results indicated that SGF may be a promising drug for the treatment of liver injury .
OBJECTIVE : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is a growing global health concern , with limited effective treatments . KCNMA1 potassium channel has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various metabolic diseases . However , whether and how KCNMA1 regulates MASLD have been elusive . METHODS : Global , hepatic stellate cells ( HSCs ) -specific , and hepatocyte-specific Kcnma1 knockout mice were fed either a standard chow or a high-fat diet ( HFD ) . Serum and liver tissues were collected and analyzed by biochemical assay , histology , qPCR and western blotting . HSCs conditioned medium ( CM ) treatment hepatocytes experiment model and three-dimensional ( 3D ) hepatocytes-HSCs spheroids were employed to study lipid accumulation in hepatocytes . A Cytokine Antibody Array was used to analyze the cytokine profile . RESULTS : Our study demonstrated that global Kcnma1 deletion prevented diet-induced hepatic steatosis and improved insulin sensitivity . Further analyses using HSC-specific and hepatocyte-specific Kcnma1 knockout MASLD mouse models revealed that the protective effect against hepatic steatosis was predominantly mediated by Kcnma1 deletion in HSCs , rather than in hepatocytes . CM transfer experiment and 3D spheroid studies show Kcnma1 deletion effectively prevents lipid accumulation in hepatocytes . Mechanically , Kcnma1-deficient HSCs secrete Amphiregulin ( AREG ) to regulate lipid metabolism in hepatocytes via epidermal growth factor receptor ( EGFR ) signaling . Of clinical significance , AREG levels were notably reduced in the liver tissue of MASLD patients , while injection of recombinant AREG protein significantly ameliorated MASLD in mice . CONCLUSIONS : Our study uncovers a novel mechanism in which Kcnma1 deletion in HSCs enhances AREG secretion , thereby reducing lipid accumulation in hepatocytes through the AREG/EGFR signaling , ultimately inhibiting the progression of MASLD .
The effects of starch on fish are species-dependent . The present study aimed to explore effects of dietary maize starch on growth , hepatopancreas health , and intestinal microbiota in juvenile Asian red-tailed catfish , Hemibagrus wyckioides . A total of 450 catfish with an average initial weight of approximately 97 +/- 04 g were randomly assigned to five dietary treatments named as CK ( 0 % ) , C8 ( 8 % ) , C16 ( 16 % ) , C24 ( 24 % ) , and C32 ( 32 % ) , containing corresponding levels of maize starch . Weight gain , serum acid phosphatase and alkaline phosphatase activities , as well as the levels of complement components 3 , components 4 , and immunoglobulin M , increased linearly with rising dietary starch levels ( P < 05 ) , reaching the highest values in the C32 group . A linear increase in hepatosomatic index was observed with increasing dietary starch levels ( P < 05 ) . Hepatocellular vacuolation and elevated lipid droplet accumulation were evident in the C32 group . Serum concentrations of triglycerides , cholesterol , alanine aminotransferase , and aspartate aminotransferase were significantly elevated in the C24 and C32 compared to CK and C8 groups , and exhibited a positive linear relationship with dietary starch levels ( P < 05 ) . Compared with the CK group , dietary starch supplementation in the C16 and C32 groups significantly altered gut microbial composition . The C16 and C32 diets increased the relative abundances of Cetobacterium and Lactococcus , shifted microbial metabolism toward carbohydrate and nucleotide pathways , and reduced microbial diversity and network complexity , while enhancing competitive interactions within the community . In contrast , The CK diet favored amino acid and nitrogen metabolism . Collectively , a 32 % starch level supported optimal growth and improved immune responses in H . wyckioides , the risk of hepatic lipid accumulation highlights the need for longer-term studies to assess potential health implications .
Soil salinization hinders crop growth , but salt-tolerant pumpkin is a valuable rootstock for grafting cucumbers . Calcium-dependent protein kinases ( CDPKs ) play an important role in plant salt tolerance , yet their specific functions in pumpkin and the underlying mechanisms regulating salt tolerance remain largely unknown . In this study , we identified CmoCDPK20 as a key regulator of salt tolerance in pumpkin and grafted cucumber . Functional characterization revealed that CmoCDPK20 enhanced the salt tolerance of grafted cucumbers by inducing jasmonic acid ( JA ) biosynthesis and antioxidant enzyme activities . Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that CmoCDPK20 interacts with and phosphorylates the transcription factor dehydration-responsive element-binding protein 2A ( CmoDREB2A ) at Ser241/396 residues . The activated CmoDREB2A subsequently binds to the promoters of CmoAOC2 , CmoPOD2 , and CmoCAT3 , leading to increased JA production and antioxidant enzyme activity . These findings elucidate a novel regulatory pathway underlying salt tolerance in pumpkin and provide insights for developing salt-tolerant pumpkin rootstocks .
BACKGROUND : Reducing LDL cholesterol prevents atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ( ASCVD ) events . The aim of this study was to evaluate the LDL cholesterol-lowering efficacy of a fixed-dose combination ( FDC ) of obicetrapib , a CETP inhibitor , and ezetimibe . METHODS : This randomised , double-blind trial across 48 US sites including hospitals , private and group practices , and independent research centres included participants at least 18 years old with pre-existing or high risk for ASVCD or heterozygous familial hypercholesterolaemia with LDL cholesterol concentrations of 8 mmol/L ( 70 mg/dL ) or greater despite maximally tolerated lipid-lowering therapy excluding ezetimibe , or having statin intolerance . Participants were randomly assigned ( 1 : 1 : 1 : 1 ) to obicetrapib 10 mg plus ezetimibe 10 mg FDC , obicetrapib 10 mg monotherapy , ezetimibe 10 mg monotherapy , or placebo administered daily for 84 days . The co-primary endpoints in the intention-to-treat population were the percent LDL cholesterol changes in the FDC group compared with placebo , ezetimibe monotherapy , and obicetrapib monotherapy , and the placebo-adjusted change in the obicetrapib monotherapy group . The trial was prospectively registered ( NCT06005597 ) and is completed . FINDINGS : Between March 4 and July 3 , 2024 , 407 participants were randomly assigned . The median age was 0 years ( IQR 0-0 ) and 177 ( 43% ) were female . Mean baseline LDL cholesterol was 4 mmol/L , 5 mmol/L , 6 mmol/L , and 5 mmol/L in the placebo ( n=102 ) , ezetimibe monotherapy ( n=101 ) , obicetrapib monotherapy ( n=102 ) , and FDC groups ( n=102 ) , respectively . At day 84 , percent differences in LDL cholesterol reduction with the FDC were -6% ( 95% CI -3 to -9 ) versus placebo , -9% ( -5 to -4 ) versus ezetimibe , and -8% ( -4 to -1 ) versus obicetrapib . Obicetrapib monotherapy decreased LDL cholesterol by 9% ( 1 to 6 ) versus placebo . Adverse event rates were similar in the FDC ( 52 [51%] of 102 ) , obicetrapib ( 55 [54%] of 102 ) , and ezetimibe ( 54 [53%] of 101 ) groups and lowest with placebo ( 38 [37%] of 102 ) . Serious adverse event rates were generally similar across FDC ( three [3%] of 102 ) , obicetrapib ( six [6%] of 102 ) , ezetimibe ( seven [7%] of 101 ) , and placebo ( four [4%] of 102 ) groups . Deaths occurred in one [1%] of 102 participants with FDC , one [1%] of 102 with obicetrapib , one [1%] of 101 with ezetimibe , and none with placebo . INTERPRETATION : Combination therapy of obicetrapib and ezetimibe significantly reduced LDL cholesterol . This oral , single-pill therapy could improve LDL cholesterol management in patients with pre-existing or high risk for ASCVD . FUNDING : NewAmsterdam Pharma .
The role of marine n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFAs ) in promoting sleep has been proposed , yet their benefits for patients with type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) and the underlying molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood . In this study , we identify a significant association between habitual fish oil use and improved sleep quality in a cohort of 27 , 549 patients with T2D . A subsequent randomized controlled trial demonstrates that fish oil supplementation enhances sleep parameters in patients with T2D , accompanied by the upregulation of core circadian clock genes , including Clock , Bmal1 , and Per In vitro , DHA and EPA restore the rhythmic oscillations of key clock genes in hypothalamic neurons disrupted by palmitic acid . Notably , n-3 PUFAs target RORalpha to regulate circadian clock oscillations and facilitate BMAL1 nuclear translocation . Collectively , our findings highlight the potential of marine n-3 PUFAs as a dietary intervention to improve sleep health in patients with T2D . This study was registered at ClinicalTrials . gov ( NCT03708887 ) .
Mixtures of partially O-methylated alditol acetate standards of allose , altrose , gulose and talose were synthesised . Methyl glycosides of each sugar were prepared and partially methylated using the NaOH/DMSO methylation procedure , adding 75 hydroxyl group equivalents of CHI . Following conversion to partially methylated alditol acetates , via successive hydrolysis , reduction , and acetylation , the derivatives were separated by gas chromatography on low and high polarity columns and analysed by electron impact mass spectrometry . Detailed data on retention times relative to myo-inositol hexaacetate on the two columns are provided .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Few studies have evaluated the effect of rs490683 on weight loss . The objective of our study was to evaluate the role of this variant of GHSR gene on body weight loss and cardiovascular risk factors secondary to a partial meal replacement ( pMR ) hypocaloric diet . METHODS : 96 individuals with a body mass index ( BMI > 35 kg/m ) were enrolled . Participants consumed a normocaloric , hyperproteic formula twice daily ( 12-w ) . Measurements were taken for body weight , BMI , fat mass , waist circumference , blood pressure , lipid profile , fasting insulin levels and HOMA-IR . RESULTS : The genotype was 70 patients ( 9 % ) CC genotype , 19 patients ( 8 % ) CG genotype , and 7 patients ( 3 % ) GG genotype . The intake of calories , grams of carbohydrates , fats and proteins was higher at 12w in patients carrying the G allele . BMI ( -5 +/- 4 kg/m vs -0 +/- 2 kg/m ( p = 01 ) ) , body weight ( -5 +/- 0 kg vs -6 +/- 1 kg ( p = 01 ) ) , fat mass ( -7 +/- 3 kg vs -6 +/- 2 kg ( p = 01 ) ) , waist circumference ( -2 +/- 3 cm vs -9 +/- 1 cm ( p = 01 ) ) , glucose levels ( -1 +/- 4 mg/dl vs -1 +/- 8 mg/dl , p = 01 ) , insulin ( -8 +/- 2 UI/L vs -9 +/- 1 UI/L , p = 01 ) , HOMA-IR ( -1 +/- 0 units vs -58 +/- 2 units , p = 01 ) , CRP ( -2 +/- 1 mg/dl vs -7 +/- 2 mg/dl , p = 01 ) , triglycerides ( -1 +/- 1 mg/dl vs -1 +/- 2 mg/dl , p = 01 ) , total-cholesterol ( -2 +/- 3 mg/dl vs -8 +/- 9 mg/dl , p = 01 ) , LDL-cholesterol ( -2 +/- 1 mg/dl vs -7 +/- 2 mg/dl , p = 01 ) , and HDL-cholesterol ( 2 +/- 4 mg/dl vs -9 +/- 2 mg/dl , p = 01 ) modifications were better in non-G allele carriers . After intervention , the odds ratio ( OR ) of MS in non-carrier of G allele improved OR 48 ( 95%CI : 31-73 ; p = 02 ) . CONCLUSIONS : G allele of rs490683 have a deleterious effect on dietary restrictions , body weight and metabolic response after a pMR diet .
BACKGROUND AND AIMS : Genetic defects significantly contribute to diabetes development , especially in genetically predisposed individuals . First-degree relatives ( FDRs ) of type 2 diabetes ( T2D ) patients face an increased risk of developing diabetes . Spexin , a novel neuropeptide , is emerging as a key player in metabolic diseases due to its role in energy homeostasis . This study aims to evaluate , for the first time , serum spexin levels in normoglycemic FDRs of T2D patients , compared to T2D and healthy controls . It also investigates the relationship between spexin levels , insulin resistance , and metabolic parameters . METHODS : Ninety participants were included : 30 with T2D , 35 normoglycemic FDRs of T2D patients , and 25 healthy controls . Serum spexin levels were measured using ELISA , along with and glycemic parameters , lipid profiles , and insulin resistance markers . RESULTS : Spexin levels were significantly lower in FDRs compared to controls and even lower in T2D patients , indicating a progressive decline from healthy individuals to those with T2D . Spexin levels negatively correlated with BMI , triglycerides , total cholesterol , LDL-C , fasting blood glucose , insulin , HbA1c , and HOMA-IR , but positively correlated with HDL-C . CONCLUSION : Lower spexin levels in FDRs of T2D patients may be associated with a higher risk of developing T2D . Spexin levels showed statistically significant negative correlations with key metabolic and cardiovascular risk factors , including BMI ( r=-302 ) , triglycerides ( r=-464 ) , total cholesterol ( r=-524 ) , fasting insulin ( r=-703 ) , and HOMA-IR ( r=-565 ) , suggesting that reduced spexin may reflect or contribute to worsening metabolic health and insulin resistance . Monitoring spexin could be useful for identifying individuals at higher risk for T2D and related metabolic disorders .
Obesity , characterized by excessive adipose tissue accumulation , is an important risk factor for the development of several chronic conditions , including cardiovascular disease , type 2 diabetes mellitus , and hypertension . The present study aimed to investigate the effects of kukoamine B ( KB ) , a major component of the Lycii Radicis Cortex ( LRC ) , on adipogenesis and lipid accumulation in vitro and further assess its role in obesity in vivo . For the in vitro experiments , 3T3-L1 cells and primary-cultured adipose-derived stem cells were used . Lipid accumulation was measured using Oil Red O staining , and adipogenesis-related gene expression was assessed using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction . For the in vivo experiments , LRC or KB was orally administered to ovariectomized and high-fat diet-induced obese mice . LRC exhibited antiadipogenic and antiobesity effects in vitro and in vivo experiments . Fractionation of the LRC extract identified KB as a bio-active component . KB treatment resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in lipid droplet formation and downregulation of adipogenesis-related genes , including Pparg , Cebpa , Srebp1 , Fasn , and Plin2 , in both cell types . Western blot analysis revealed that KB significantly suppressed the protein expression of key adipogenic factors , including phosphorylated CREB , CEBPB , PPARG , and CEBPA . In vivo , KB administration significantly reduced body weight gain , hepatic steatosis , and adipocyte hypertrophy in both mouse models . These results suggest that KB is a potential therapeutic agent for the prevention and treatment of obesity . Further rigorous investigations , including human clinical trials , are necessary to fully elucidate the safety profile , optimal dosing regimens , and long-term effects of KB .
This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to examine and critically analyze evidence on the effects of CrossFit ( R ) in individuals with overweight or obesity . A search was conducted in four databases ( Scopus , WOS , SPORTDiscus , and MEDLINE/PubMed ) covering publications from their inception to November Ten RCTs were analyzed . CrossFit ( R ) groups showed significant reductions in weight [six studies ; n=161 ; Hedges ' g : -76 ( 95%CI : -51 , -02 ) ; p=008] and body mass index ( BMI ) [five studies ; n=61 ; Hedges ' g : -71 ( 95%CI : -45 , 02 ) ; p=007] . However , changes in weight [six studies ; n=320 ; 93% men ; Hedges ' g : 55 ( 95%CI : -66 , 76 ) ; p=071] and BMI [five studies ; n=120 ; Hedges ' g : 24 ( 95%CI : -81 , 29 ) ; p=094] were not significantly different compared to control groups . CrossFit ( R ) is a feasible option for improving body composition , metabolic health , and cardiorespiratory fitness in this population . However , its impact on blood pressure is inconclusive , and its effects on weight and BMI are comparable to traditional exercise modalities .
The Chlamydomonas reinhardtii strain is a widely used model for studying algal lipid metabolism . This research investigated the effects of exogenous alpha-lipoic acid ( ALA ) on growth and lipid accumulation under salt stress . After 7-day ALA treatment , the biomass ( 95 g/L ) and lipid content ( 47 g/L ) increased by 8 % and 6 % , respectively , compared to the salt-stressed . After 7 days of culture , the relative expression levels of lipid biosynthesis genes , including ME , accD , ACSF3 , and DGAT1 in the ALA + NaCl group were significantly upregulated by 8- , 3- , 6- , and 3-fold , respectively , compared with the control group . Biochemical analyses revealed increased primary/secondary metabolites and antioxidant levels , alongside reduced reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) . Transcriptome analysis showed upregulation of genes involved in carbon fixation , lipid biosynthesis , pyruvate metabolism , carotenoid synthesis , and peroxisome pathways . These findings elucidate mechanisms by which ALA mitigated salt stress and enhanced lipid production , establishing key technologies for premium lipid feedstocks .
This investigation evaluates the valorization of citrus peels ( lemon , tangerine , and orange ) to recover both on-polar and polar fractions simultaneously . Citrus essential oils , abundant in limonene ( 4-7 % ) , exhibited great antioxidant activity ( IC = 002 mg/mL ) and Campylobacter jejuni halo inhibition ( 9 cm ) , particularly in tangerine and orange essential oils . The aqueous extracts were rich in quinic and malic acid ( 10-8 g/100 g ) , along with polyphenols ( 7-2 mg/g ) , such as diosmetin , luteolin , and eriodictyol glycosides . Tangerine ' s aqueous fraction showed the highest inhibition of oxidative hemolysis ( IC = 102 mug/mL ) and Staphylococcus aureus ( MIC = 5 mg/mL ) . Whereas lemon was most effective against lipid peroxidation ( IC = 33 mg/mL ) and gastric adenocarcinoma proliferation ( IG = 83 mug/mL ) . Principal component analysis correlated the in vitro bioactivities with each compound and citrus type , underscoring the potential of citrus peels as a cost-effective , sustainable source of value-added compounds with tailored commercial applications .
As the primary site of lipogenesis in birds , the liver orchestrates avian lipid metabolism and is pivotal for fat accumulation in chickens . Lipid metabolism during the broiler embryo stage may significantly affect post-hatch growth performance , yet research on this subject remains limited . While long non-coding RNAs ( lncRNAs ) have been found to regulate liver lipid metabolism in post-hatch chickens , their functions during the embryonic stage remains unclear . This study revealed that , compared to lean line broiler embryos , fat line broiler embryos showed upregulated gene expression related to de novo fatty acid synthesis , glycerol-3-phosphate synthesis , triglyceride synthesis , and the degradation of both fatty acids and cholesterol . Through transcriptome analysis and functional validation , lncRNA1926 and lncRNA3223 were identified as key regulators of lipid metabolism in broiler embryo livers . Knocking down either of lncRNA1926 or lncRNA3223 significantly reduced lipid droplet accumulation , triglyceride levels , and total cholesterol levels in primary hepatocytes of broiler embryos . Our findings demonstrate distinct lipid metabolic gene expression profiles between fat and lean line broiler embryo livers , and highlight lncRNA1926 and lncRNA3223 are key regulators of lipid metabolism during the embryonic stage . This study enhances the scientific understanding of lipid metabolism regulation in chicken livers and provides a theoretical foundation for genetically improving abdominal fat traits in broilers .
Aging leads to deterioration of the liver and kidney . Metabolic research on aging organs , including liver and kidney and metabolic studies of caloric restriction ( CR ) , which delay aging and extends lifespan , are not well understood . In this study , we monitored metabolic changes associated with aging and explored potential biomarkers in kidney and liver of young ( Y , 8 months ) , old ( O , 23 months ) , and old calorie-restricted ( OCR , 23 months ) rats by metabolic profiling of organic acids ( OA ) , free fatty acids ( FFA ) , amino acids ( AA ) using gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry . Optimization of OA , FFA , and AA profiling methods were useful for quantifying these metabolites in kidney and liver . Profile analysis identified 48 and 45 metabolites in the kidney and liver , respectively . In the kidney , malic acid was significantly higher when comparing the Y and O groups , whereas 3-hydroxybutyric acid was significantly higher when comparing the O and OCR groups . In the liver , four metabolites ( phenylacetic acid , valine , isoleucine , and tyrosine ) were significantly evaluated as potential biomarker when comparing the Y and O groups , whereas 3-hydroxybutyric acid was significantly increased when comparing the O and OCR groups . Metabolomics results indicate that aging leads to mitochondrial dysfunction , phenylalanine metabolism disorders , and kidney dysfunction , whereas CR may regulate renal aging by reducing oxidative stress , inflammation , and lipid accumulation , while improving energy metabolism and resistance to oxidative stress in the liver . This result may explain some changes in the metabolism of aged kidney and liver during aging and CR .
2 , 2 ' , 4 , 4 ' -Tetrabromodiphenyl ether ( BDE-47 ) , an emerging contaminant ( EC ) , is widely used in the production of brominated flame retardants and is biotoxic to marine organisms . However , our understanding of the mechanism of polybrominated diphenyl ethers ( PBDEs ) -induced toxicity remains incomplete . In this study , BDE-47 cytotoxicity after short-term exposure was investigated in PCK cells . BDE-47 significantly decreased cell viability , and morphological alterations were observed . Moreover , BDE-47 exposure induced apoptosis and ferroptosis , a newly described form of iron-mediated cell death , as demonstrated by transcriptomic analysis and physiological/biochemical tests . The observed cell death was associated with mitochondrial damage and a decrease in ATP production . Pharmacological intervention of cytotoxicity via 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide ribonucleotide ( AICAR ) , an activator of the adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase ( AMPK ) protein , a regulator of energy , strongly confirmed the causal relationship between cell death and energy metabolism dysfunction . Furthermore , lipidomic analysis revealed lipid metabolism disorders resulting from the accumulation of triglycerides ( TGs ) and glycerophospholipids ( GPs ) and the suppression of beta-oxidation , ultimately inhibiting ATP synthesis . Molecular docking analysis revealed the binding potential of BDE-47 with energy metabolism checkpoints AMPK and Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase 1 ( CPT1 ) . Thus , our study broadens the understanding of the toxicity of BDE-47 and provides a new potential cellular and molecular mechanism .
Grape drying promote agentia ( GDPA ) plays a crucial role in raisin production and is widely used . These accelerators primarily consist of alkaline reagents , lipid compounds and other drying agents . They function by undergoing saponification reactions to produce higher fatty acid salts , which disrupt the waxy layer of grape skins , thereby accelerating the dehydration process of grapes . To assess the potential cellular and organ toxicity linked to GDPA consumption , this study conducted the TK gene mutation test and the bacterial reverse mutation assay , confirm that it does not have mutagenic toxicity . Furthermore , we utilized MTT staining to quantify the cellular damage caused by GDPA in human normal liver cells , determining that the half maximal inhibitory concentration exceeds 4 mg/mL . In addition , acute and subacute toxicity tests were conducted on rats , with dosage levels set at a lower limit of 500 mg/kg for acute testing and 250 mg/kg for subacute testing , respectively . In Sprague Dawley rats , a single dose of 5000 mg/kg GDPA or continuous dose of 1500 mg/kg GDPA can cause reversible specific toxic effects on the liver , kidneys , and jejunum . The dietary risk assessment showed that the acute , subacute , and cumulative risk quotients of GDPA in raisins were below 100 % , indicating that this pre-treatment method would not cause unacceptable acute health risks . Our research provides a scientific basis for advocating the judicious use of desiccants , expanding their application to a broader range of agricultural commodities , and helping to establish standardized processing protocols for crops like grapes .
Ulva rigida is a widely available marine algae representing a valuable biomass from which natural photosensitizers ( chlorophylls ) can be obtained in an environmentally friendly manner using a green microwave-assisted extraction technique . If properly loaded in biocompatible nanoformulations , such highly hydrophobic chlorophylls with photosensitizing activity may constitute effective drugs useful in photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) against extremely resistant pancreatic cancer cells . To permit adequate solubilization in water , prevent immune system activation , and improve pharmacokinetic properties , an extract from Ulva rigida biomass was encapsulated in two monoolein-based cubosome formulations differing for the dispersants used for their stabilization in water : Pluronic F108 ( CUB ) or a mixture of sorbitan monooleate and sodium taurocholate ( TS-CUB ) . In both cases , high encapsulation efficiency was achieved . The formulations were investigated from a physicochemical point of view ( SAXS , cryo-TEM , DLS , ELS ) , and the production of reactive oxygen species was evaluated . In addition , an extensive evaluation of biocompatibility and bioactivity was conducted on the human pancreatic cancer cell line BxPC- This assessment included an MTT cytotoxicity assay , cellular uptake analysis via flow cytometry , and cytoskeleton imaging both under dark conditions and post-irradiation to evaluate the effects of PDT . Unloaded nanoparticles were characterized by an inner bicontinuous cubic phase ( Pn3m ) . However , after encapsulation of the Ulva rigida extract the presence of a sponge phase ( L3 ) in the TS-CUB formulation was observed . Compared with CUB , TS-CUB loaded with the extract demonstrated enhanced photoactivity , superior biocompatibility , and more potent in vitro anticancer activity against pancreatic cancer through photodynamic therapy ( PDT ) .
The cell wall of Mycobacterium tuberculosis ( Mtb ) , the causative agent of tuberculosis , is rich in complex lipids . During intracellular stage , Mtb depends on lipids for its survival . Mammalian cell entry ( Mce ) 1 complex encoded by the mce1 operon is a mycolic/fatty acid importer . mce1 operon also encodes a putative fatty acyl-CoA synthetase ( FadD5 ; Rv0166 ) , potentially responsible for the activation of fatty acids imported through the Mce1 complex by conjugating them to Coenzyme A . Here , we report that FadD5 is associated to membrane although it can be purified as a soluble dimeric protein . ATP and CoA binding influence FadD5 ' s stability and conformation respectively . Enzymatic studies with fatty acids of varying chain lengths show that FadD5 prefers long chain fatty acids as substrates . X-ray crystallographic studies on FadD5 and its variant reveal that the C-terminal domain ( approximately 100 residues ) is cleaved off during crystallization . Noteworthy , deletion of this domain renders FadD5 completely inactive . SAXS studies , however , confirm the presence of full length FadD5 as a dimer in solution . Further structural analysis and comparisons with homologs provide insights on the possible mode of membrane association and fatty acyl tail binding .
Pentachlorophenol ( PCP ) is widely distributed in marine environments and poses a threat to the health of marine organisms . Recent studies have demonstrated that PCP induces energy deficiency in marine organisms . However , the underlying toxification mechanism and the resulting adverse outcomes remain unclear . This study analyzed the energy metabolism of marine medaka ( Oryzias melastigma ) exposed to PCP at environmentally relevant concentrations via proteomic analysis and multiple physiological assessments . The results showed that PCP disrupted mitochondrial morphology , reduced mitochondrial membrane potential ( MMP ) , and decreased adenosine triphosphate ( ATP ) levels in marine medaka . Proteomic analysis revealed that PCP induced oxidative stress , cytoskeletal disruption , and inhibition of the cytochrome bc1 complex and ATP synthase . These effects culminated in structural and functional impairments to mitochondria , which in turn inhibited ATP synthesis . Chronic PCP exposure led to enhanced glycolytic activity , the accumulation of liver lipids , and reduced liver function . The present study has deepened our understanding of the mechanism of PCP-induced energy production deficiency in marine fish and provides new insights into ecological risk assessment for PCP .
African swine fever ( ASF ) virus ( ASFV ) is an infectious disease that affects the pig industry , causing up to 85 % morbidity and 100 % mortality . To date , there are no available vaccines against ASFV . Exosomes are extracellular vesicles that are released from most cell types . Exosomes carry components such as nucleic acids , lipids , and proteins that play a vital role in cell-to-cell communication . This study investigated the effect of exosomes derived from the serum of ASFV-infected pigs on a porcine macrophage cell line . Exosomes derived from the serum of pigs infected with ASFV contained ASFV structural proteins ( p30 and p72 ) . Expression levels of interferon ( IFN ) -alpha , IFN-gamma , IL-6 , and CXCL8 in porcine macrophage cells were affected by exposure to exosomes derived from the serum of ASFV-infected pigs . Nuclear factor-kappaB ( NF-kappaB ) and Janus kinase/signal transducers and activators of transcription ( JAK/STAT ) signaling pathway play an important role in the immune response to ASFV infection . Exosomes derived from ASFV-infected pigs affected mRNA and protein levels of NF-kappaB , tank binding kinase 1 ( TBK1 ) , JAK1 , JAK2 , and STAT1 , suggesting that exosomes derived from ASFV-infected pigs mediate antiviral response by modulating the expression of inflammatory cytokines and activity of the NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT signaling pathways . The present study provides novel information about the immunomodulatory effects of exosome derived from pigs infected with ASFV , improving our understanding of ASFV pathogenesis and the host immune response to ASFV infection .
This cross-sectional study evaluates the morphological and qualitative changes in the meibomian glands ( MGs ) and tear film lipid layer ( TFLL ) associated with aging and sex in canine brachycephalic breeds . One hundred and eleven brachycephalic dogs with normal eyes were included . Dogs were divided into three age groups : </=4 years ( G1 ) , >4 and < 10 years ( G2 ) and >/= 10 years ( G3 ) . Schirmer test I ( STT I ) , upper eyelid MGs noncontact infrared meibography ( NIM ) , tear interferometry ( TFI ) and tear film breakup time ( TFBUT ) were performed in each eye . Loss of MGs and lid margin abnormalities ( LMAs ) , as well as TFI patterns were scored from 0 to 3 depending on severity . Normality was assessed with the Shapiro-Wilk test . The Kruskal-Wallis test was used for the analysis of variance among groups . Pearson ' s or Spearman ' s correlation coefficient was used to assess the correlation between MG loss and STT I values . Significance was set at p < Forty-four Shih-Tzus , 37 Pugs and 30 French Bulldogs were enrolled in the study . Median age was 5 months ( range 30-48 months ) in G1 , 5 months ( range 65-118 months ) in G2 , 5 months ( range 120-201 months ) in G Loss of MGs was statistically higher in G2 and G3 ( p < 001 ) and was associated with a reduction in TFI scores ( p < 001 ) and STT I ( p < 001 ) . Loss of MGs was then negatively correlated with TFBUT . No statistical differences were associated with sex ( p > 05 ) or breed ( p > 05 ) . The tear film lipid layer appears to be negatively affected by age in brachycephalic dogs .
AIM : Glycogenated nuclei ( GN ) are glycogen deposits within the nuclei and are a frequent pathological finding in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease . This study aimed to investigate the relationship between GN and two morphologically distinct types of intranuclear lipid droplets in liver biopsy specimens and to explore their respective pathological significance . METHODS : We analyzed 135 liver biopsy specimens . A portion of the liver biopsy specimen was examined using transmission electron microscopy ( TEM ) to investigate intranuclear lipid droplets in hepatocytes . Nuclear inclusion bodies with clear boundaries and unstained areas on hematoxylin and eosin staining were identified as nuclear glycogen . RESULTS : TEM revealed nucleoplasmic lipid droplets ( nLD ) in 65% of liver biopsy specimens and invagination of cytoplasmic lipid droplets into the nucleus in 30% of specimens . In contrast , light microscopy detected GN in 82% of specimens . No significant correlations were observed between the frequencies of the two types of intranuclear lipid droplets and nuclear glycogen levels . A significant positive correlation was observed between the frequency of nLD and transaminase levels . Glycogenated nuclei were frequently observed in liver biopsy specimens from patients with MASLD ; however , their frequency did not significantly correlate with the degree of hepatic steatosis . Instead , a significant positive correlation was observed between nuclear glycogen and blood HbA1c levels . CONCLUSIONS : The two types of intranuclear lipid droplets and nuclear glycogen observed in liver biopsy specimens showed no significant correlation in their formation frequencies , suggesting that they possess distinct pathological significance .
BACKGROUND : Exposure to pollutants including the ubiquitous ' forever chemical ' , Perfluorooctane sulfonate ( PFOS ) has increasingly been associated with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) . Recent epidemiological evidence has identified associations between Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFAS ) exposure and increased liver injury in alcohol consumers , suggesting potential interactions between these exposures . However , the intersection of pollutant exposures and alcohol-associated liver disease ( ALD ) is not well studied . We hypothesize that pollutants may disrupt hepatic metabolism to modify ALD severity . Recently , we developed a two-hit ( ethanol plus pollutant ) mouse model , enabling testing of this hypothesis . Here , we elucidate the metabolic and disease-modifying effects of PFOS in this model . METHODS : Male C57BL/6J mice were fed isocaloric control or 5% Ethanol ( EtOH ) Lieber-DeCarli diet for 15 days . From day 6 of feeding , mice were concurrently gavaged with 1 mg/kg PFOS or 2% tween-80 vehicle for 10 days , followed by a 5 g/kg EtOH binge dose and euthanized 5-6 hours later . RESULTS : Approximately 60% of the administered PFOS dose accumulated in liver . PFOS exacerbated EtOH-induced hepatic steatosis and was associated by higher levels of plasma very low-density lipoprotein ( vLDL ) and alanine aminotransferase ( ALT ) . PFOS upregulated hepatic ethanol-metabolizing enzymes and lowered blood alcohol levels . Ingenuity Pathway Analysis ( IPA ) Top Toxicity Functions/Lists associated with hepatic gene expression following PFOS co-exposure in EtOH-fed mice included : Fatty acid metabolism and liver steatosis ; nuclear receptor activation , cytochrome P450 , and reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) ; apoptosis ; liver fibrosis ; and hepatocellular carcinoma ( HCC ) . GO/KEGG analyses similarly revealed enrichment in fatty acid , xenobiotic , alcohol , or glutathione metabolic processes ; and Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( PPAR ) signaling . PFOS upregulated hepatic expression of several nuclear receptors ( e . g . , Pparalpha , Car , and Pxr ) and their P450 target genes ( e . g . , Cyp4a10 , Cyp2b10 , and Cyp3a11 ) by RT-PCR or Western blot , confirming key IPA predictions . CONCLUSIONS : PFOS is a metabolism disrupting chemical that worsened ALD severity . PFOS activated hepatic nuclear receptors and enriched hepatic transcriptional pathways associated with steatosis , xenobiotic metabolism , oxidative stress , cell death , fibrosis , and HCC . These data demonstrate a novel mechanism whereby PFOS exacerbates ALD through coordinated dysregulation of lipid homeostasis and liver injury , potentially mediated by nuclear receptor activation . The identification of PFOS as an ALD risk modifier highlight the critical need to evaluate environmental pollutants as potential contributors to liver disease progression . More data are required on environmental pollution as a disease modifying factor in ALD .
PURPOSE : To assess the macular vascular effects of prolonged use of latanoprost compared to the dorzolamide-timolol fixed combination in patients with very early-stage glaucoma , where glaucoma-specific damage has been minimized . METHODS : The retinal vascular effects of latanoprost versus the dorzolamide-timolol fixed combination were evaluated using Optical Coherence Tomography Angiography ( OCT-A ) in a case-control study design . A total of 71 eyes from 71 individuals were included in the study : 28 eyes receiving latanoprost ( Group 1 ) , 20 eyes receiving the dorzolamide-timolol combination ( Group 2 ) , and 23 eyes from healthy individuals ( Group 3 ) . Superficial , deep , and radial peripapillary capillary plexus vascular density ( SCP-vd , DCP-vd , RPCP-vd ) and foveal avascular zone ( FAZ ) measurements were taken with OCT-A . The comparative analysis between groups was performed with SPSS V . RESULTS : Across the groups ( from 1 to 3 ) , whole image vascular density ( vd ) measurements were as follows : SCP-vd : 86 +/- 99 , 58 +/- 58 , 35 +/- 04 ; DCP-vd : 86 +/- 75 , 02 +/- 87 , 74 +/- 84 ; and RPCP-vd : 97 +/- 81 , 07 +/- 49 , 90 +/- All these measurements were significantly decreased in both glaucoma groups ( groups 1 and 2 ) compared to healthy subjects ( group 3 ) . In subgroup analyses of the macular region , including the fovea , parafovea , and perifovea , vd measurements were decreased in all areas except the fovea in glaucoma patients . However , no statistically significant differences were found between the latanoprost and dorzolamide-timolol groups regarding retinal vascular structure . In FAZ measurements , no significant differences were found in any anatomical location among the three groups . CONCLUSION : This study demonstrates that latanoprost , the first prostaglandin analog known for its edema-inducing effect on the macula , does not have a long-term impact on macular vascularity . However , this result should be supported with longer and larger studies .
Spinal cord injury ( SCI ) is a severe disorder characterized by regeneration challenges in the central nervous system ( CNS ) , resulting in permanent paralysis , loss of sensation , and abnormal autonomic functions . The complex pathophysiology of SCI poses challenges to traditional treatments , highlighting the urgent need for novel treatment approaches . Exosomes have emerged as promising candidates for SCI therapy because of their ability to deliver a wide range of bioactive molecules , such as RNAs , proteins , and lipids , to target cells with minimal immunogenicity , which contribute to anti-inflammatory , anti-apoptotic , autophagic , angiogenic , neurogenic , and axon remodeling activities . In this study , we classified exosomes from different sources into four categories based on the characteristics of the donor cells ( mesenchymal stem cells , neurogenic cells , immune cells , vascular-associated cells ) and provided a detailed summary and discussion of the current research progress and future directions for each source . We also conducted an in-depth investigation into the applications of engineered exosomes in SCI therapy , focusing on their roles in drug delivery and combination with surface engineering technologies and tissue engineering strategies . Finally , the challenges and prospects of exosomal clinical applications in SCI repair are described .
PURPOSE : Portable UV-C disinfection devices for domestic use have been widely commercially available since COVID-19 pandemic . Concerns regarding their safety have been expressed , while there is a lack of actual data regarding the health effects of commercial hand-held UV-C disinfection devices . Herein , the acute effects of two commercial UV-C devices for domestic disinfection are evaluated in vitro , under realistic exposure conditions . MATERIALS AND METHODS : Skin cells were exposed to an LP-Hg wand and an LED disinfection device for 10s , 30s , 5 , 10 and 15 min . The devices measured the erythema effective irradiance was 5 W m ( -2 ) . Cellular viability , oxidative stress , protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation were evaluated right after irradiation . RESULTS : A dose-dependent cellular viability decrease and oxidative stress , protein oxidation and lipid peroxidation increase were demonstrated , while the LP-Hg wand seemed to induce more severe effects than the LED . Lipid peroxidation has been shown to be the dominant photooxidation mechanism , even at a sublethal radiant exposure . CONCLUSION : The results provide evidence regarding the cutaneous photodamaging effects of commercially available UV-C disinfection devices for domestic use at the cellular level , contributing to the UV-C disinfection devices ' risk management . FAU - Kardamila , Eleni
PURPOSE : Chronic intakes of functional foods ( probiotics , apples and oats ) have been reported to have beneficial effects on hepatic lipid regulation and glycaemic control , but mechanistic human studies humans are limited . An ex-vivo study was performed to determine the chronic effects of probiotics , oats , and apples on the expression of genes related to markers of cardiometabolic health in peripheral blood monocular cells ( PBMC ) . METHODS : In this CABALA sub-study ( n = 59/61 , age : 52 +/- 12y ) , blood PBMC were also isolated before and 8 weeks after the daily consumption of either a probiotic with bile salt hydrolase activity ( Lactobacillus reuteri ) , porridge oats , Renetta Canada apples or a control . Relative PBMC mRNA gene expression was determined and correlations performed between the fold change in response to the functional interventions and change in cardiometabolic disease risk markers . RESULTS : Relative to baseline , there was an upregulation in the PBMC TLR4 mRNA expression in the control compared with the probiotics and apples groups ( p[Formula : see text]024 ) . Moderate inverse correlations were found between the fold change in GPBAR1 mRNA expression and change in plasma total and secondary BAs , HMGCR and SREBF1 mRNA gene expressions and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol , and SREBF1 and GIPR mRNA gene expressions and glucose . TLR4 and TNFSF14 mRNA gene expressions were associated with pro-inflammatory cytokines ( p=05 ) . CONCLUSION : Probiotic and apples interventions attenuated the upregulation in PBMC TLR4 mRNA expression observed with the control . Correlations between fold change in mRNA gene expression and changes in cardiometabolic disease risk markers in response to the functional interventions were in agreement with previous studies . CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRY : The study was registered at clinical trials . gov ( ref . NCT03369548 ) .
Administering beneficial bacteria as probiotics to restore the intestinal microbiota and its metabolic functions , such as butyrogenesis , is a promising treatment strategy in ulcerative colitis ( UC ) . This study aimed to investigate the effect of a combination of probiotics , consisting of the lactic acid bacterium Weizmannia coagulans SANK70258 and the lactate-utilizing butyrate-producing bacteria Anaerostipes caccae or Clostridium butyricum , on the colonic environment using an in vitro colonic microbiota culture model with fecal inoculums from seven patients with UC . Co-inoculated W . coagulans and A . caccae neither inhibited each other ' s growth nor significantly affected the relative abundance of other bacterial species ; however , the growth of W . coagulans was significantly inhibited when co-inoculated with C . butyricum . The relative abundance of pro-inflammatory bacteria ( Escherichia sp . and unclassified Enterobacteriaceae ) and Bifidobacterium spp . significantly decreased in W . coagulans-C . butyricum co-inoculated cultures . Inoculation with any of the probiotics alone did not increase butyrate production , whereas co-inoculation of W . coagulans with A . caccae or C . butyricum significantly increased the butyrate levels . Overall , the results suggested that W . coagulans and lactate-utilizing butyrate-producing bacteria in combination have synergistic effects through cross-feeding and can effectively restore butyrogenesis in the colonic environment of patients with UC . KEY POINTS : * Effects of probiotics were evaluated using in vitro microbiota model of UC colon . * W . coagulans and lactate-utilizing butyrate producers have synergistic effects . * Co-inoculation of W . coagulans with A . caccae or C . butyricum enhanced butyrogenesis .
Systemic lupus erythematosus ( SLE ) patients have a significantly increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) . Despite the implementation of preventive measures and treatment of lipid disorders , as well as reduced use of glucocorticoids , CVD remains one of the leading causes of death in this patient group . It is crucial to develop an appropriate CVD risk assessment strategy that considers the distinctive characteristics of this patient population . This paper provides a comprehensive analysis of the methods used to assess CVD risk in SLE patients . It also presents effective strategies for the reduction of the effects of traditional and non-traditional risk factors for atherosclerosis .
BACKGROUND : HTLV-1-associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis ( HAM/TSP ) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system ( CNS ) . Teriflunomide is an oral agent developed for the treatment of multiple sclerosis ( MS ) by suppressing the proliferation of autoreactive lymphocytes . This study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of teriflunomide in HAM/TSP patients in Northeast Iran . METHODS : This study was a triple-blind , randomized , placebo-controlled trial involving 22 patients with HAM/TSP . The intervention group ( n = 11 ) received one tablet of teriflunomide ( 14 mg daily ) , while the control group ( n = 11 ) received one placebo tablet for 12 months . Muscle strength , spasticity , motor disability , urinary disorders , walking speed , laboratory factors , and drug complications were examined during the study . RESULTS : In the intervention group , consumption of teriflunomide decreased the duration of walking according to the T25FW test ( p = 01 ) . The severity of OMDS disability also significantly decreased ( P < 001 ) . Additionally , the total score of UDS in the intervention group decreased . The levels of HTLV-1 proviral load significantly decreased ( p = 003 ) . No adverse effects were observed , and the increase in liver enzyme levels was tolerable and controllable . CONCLUSIONS : Teriflunomide effectively reduced the proviral load , improved the severity of disability and walking speed , and better controlled urinary and constipation symptoms without any adverse effects . Therefore , teriflunomide can be considered a disease-modifying therapy for patients with HAM/TSP . However , further studies with a large number of patients and longer duration , along with the determination of specific HAM/TSP-associated biomarkers , are needed to validate the results of the present study . TRIAL REGISTRATION : IRCT20180618040127N3 ; November 19 ,
Previous studies have shown that epigallocatechin-3-gallate ( EGCG ) , the most abundant catechin in green tea , demonstrates promising antiobesity effects . While autophagy mediates obesity via preadipocyte differentiation and lipogenesis , EGCG ' s potential autophagy-dependent antiobesity mechanism remains unclear . We used 3T3-L1 cells and high-fat-diet ( HFD ) -fed mice to examine how EGCG inhibits adipogenesis and lipogenesis via autophagy . EGCG ( 50 or 100 mg/kg ) significantly attenuated HFD-induced weight gain , fat accumulation , hyperlipidemia , and glucose intolerance in mice . It also enhanced autophagy and lipolysis in white adipose tissue ( WAT ) . EGCG profoundly inhibited terminal preadipocyte differentiation and lipid droplet formation in 3T3-L1 cells accompanied by reduced PPARgamma , C/EBPalpha , and FASN expressions . Mechanistically , EGCG inhibited autophagy during the early stage of preadipocyte differentiation , as evidenced by increased autophagosome accumulation and impaired autophagic flux . The antiadipogenic effect of EGCG was further aggravated by the autophagy inhibitor chloroquine . Meanwhile , EGCG increased p38 and AMPK/ACC phosphorylation while inhibiting JNK phosphorylation in 3T3-L1 cells at an early stage of adipogenesis . Interestingly , EGCG reduced the expression of lipolytic enzymes HSL and ATGL , and it decreased glycerol contents in differentiated 3T3-L1 cells . These findings provide novel insights into the mechanism of using green tea EGCG in functional foods to combat obesity by targeting autophagy and lipolysis . FAU - Peng , He
Plastoglobules are droplet-like organelles with a hydrophobic core of neutral lipids surrounded by a lipid monolayer , usually found in the chloroplasts of most plants and green algae . They not only serve as lipid storage units in the thylakoid membranes but are also involved in many cellular processes , including photoprotection , metabolite synthesis , protein recruitment , and chloroplast differentiation . Unlike lipid droplets , which nucleate , grow , and subsequently detach from the endoplasmic reticulum ( ER ) membrane , plastoglobules remain permanently coupled to the stromal side of the thylakoid membrane . In this study , we employ molecular dynamics simulations to investigate the growth mechanism of plastoglobules in a model thylakoid membrane of Dunaliella algae . Our findings suggest that significant membrane remodeling , likely driven by the thylakoid membrane proteins , is essential for the directional growth and stability of the plastoglobules . FAU - Gupta , Shivam
Since the remarkable breakthrough of COVID-19 mRNA vaccines , lipid nanoparticles ( LNPs ) have gained substantial attention as the most cutting-edge clinical formulations for mRNA delivery . PEGylated lipid ( PEG-lipid ) has been regarded as an essential constituent of LNPs that helps to prolong their systemic circulation by preventing particle aggregation in the blood and sequestration by the mononuclear phagocyte system . Herein , we synthesized a series of mRNA-loaded nanoparticles by replacing ALC-0159 ( a PEG-lipid used in the Comirnaty formulation ) with amphiphilic PEG-polycarbonate diblock copolymers ( PC-HNPs ) . Interestingly , variations of polycarbonate block length and structure significantly influenced mRNA encapsulation efficiency , transfection potency , colloidal stability , and PEG shedding rate of PC-HNPs . In vivo and ex vivo bioluminescence imaging revealed that upon subcutaneous administration in mice , the leading candidate PC3-HNP achieved lymph node accumulation comparable to that of the conventional ALC-0159-based LNP formulation while avoiding undesirable liver accumulation . Our findings may provide valuable information for the construction of next-generation nanocarriers for effective mRNA delivery . FAU - Le , Dao Thi Hong
Local molecular composition across cell membrane microenvironments exerts profound effects on cellular physiology and pathology . Yet spatial demarcation of identical biomolecules inside and outside lipid raft microdomains has not been determined . Here we report location-differentiated DNA hierarchical cyclic construction for lipid raft-differentiated spatial profiling of identical biomolecules in living cells . It contains two sequential DNA cyclic construction reactions : primary one triggered by total target molecules and secondary one activated by lipid raft ' s location markers proximal to target molecules . Using this method , we differentially visualize identical biomolecules localized in lipid raft and non-lipid raft microdomains with different signals . We demonstrate the robustness and universality of this method by testing cell surface RNAs and proteins in diverse cell types . We reveal their diverse spatial demarcation with intrinsic heterogeneity . In both lipid raft-disrupting cells and senescent cells , MUC1 protein is dynamically organized between these two microdomains . Our strategy provides a promising avenue to investigate physiological and pathological functions of dynamic molecular compositions across cellular microenvironments .
Outdoor time and light intensity are important emerging factors affecting myopia ; however , the underlying mechanisms remain unknown . This study aimed to clarify whether a dark environment induces myopia in zebrafish and investigate the role of rhodopsin in this process . To this end , zebrafish were reared in a dark environment , and myopia-related parameters were measured . RNA sequencing and histological analysis were performed . We found a myopic shift with a relative refractive error ( RRE ) change and an increased eye-to-body length ratio in zebrafish reared in the dark compared to that in their light-reared siblings . RNA sequencing indicated that the phototransduction pathway was affected . Hematoxylin-eosin staining and immunofluorescence analysis confirmed the elongation of the rod ' s outer segment and increased rhodopsin expression . Overexpressed rhodopsin determined a myopic RRE ; ocular enlargement resembled myopia and elevated 4-hydroxynonenal ( 4-HNE ) , which was also present in the retinal pigment epithelium of the dark-reared zebrafish . Incubation of ARPE-19 cells with a low 4-HNE concentration increased cell proliferation capacity , while incubation of ARPE-19 cells with its high concentration induced apoptosis . The increased expression of rhodopsin in a dark-rearing environment affected refractive development in zebrafish .
Ilex rotunda is traditionally employed to treat inflammatory diseases . A feature-based molecular network guided the phytochemical investigation of this plant , which resulted in the isolation and identification of two new and nine known compounds . Through the analysis of their mass and spectroscopic data and comparison with those published in the literature , their structures were determined . The isolated compounds were discovered to have anti-inflammatory properties that suppressed the synthesis of nitric oxide mediators and inflammatory cytokines ( tumor necrosis factor-alpha [TNF-alpha] production and interleukin-6 [IL-6] ) . Compound 1 and the new compounds 3 and 6 downregulated the expression levels of the COX-2 and iNOS enzymatic proteins . Furthermore , compounds 3 and 6 were mechanically found to downregulate LPS-stimulated inflammation via NF-kappaB and MAPK inactivation by inhibiting the nuclear translocation of p65 and preventing the phosphorylation of Ikappaalphabeta and ERK kinases . The molecular docking data on binding affinity and interactions with active compounds docked into the targeted proteins supported the above anti-inflammatory effects . We identified the active constituents of I . rotunda that possess anti-inflammatory properties , aiming to develop strategies for treating inflammation .
Renal fibrosis serves as a critical pathological mechanism driving the progression of chronic kidney disease ( CKD ) . However , the pathogenesis and therapeutic targets involved in this process remain unclear . Interestingly , we currently found that IGFBP7 is highly expressed in tubular epithelial cells ( TECs ) from the fibrotic kidneys of human patients and animal models . However , their functional roles in abnormal kidney repair and renal fibrosis remain unclear . Here , we report that IGFBP7 knockout ( KO ) or TEC conditional KO ( cKO ) attenuated renal fibrosis in multiple mouse models , whereas IGFBP7 knock-in or restoration in IGFBP7-KO mice enhanced renal fibrosis . These in vivo findings were verified using cultured TECs and organoids generated from IGFBP7-cKO mice . Mechanistically , we found that IGFBP7 bound to pyruvate kinase M2 ( PKM2 ) to promote the acetylation of PKM2 at the K433 site , thereby enhancing PKM2 dimerization and nuclear translocation , and subsequently accelerating lipid production and renal fibrosis via SREBP1-dependent mechanisms . Notably , through drug screening , we identified salmeterol ( an asthma medication ) as an IGFBP7 antagonist that effectively reduced fibrosis . Our findings reveal the IGFBP7/PKM2/SREBP1 axis as a central regulator of lipogenic fibrosis , offering genetic and pharmacological inhibition of IGFBP7 as promising therapeutic strategies for CKD .
Bisphenol A ( BPA ) is a widely used industrial chemical with potential endocrine-disrupting effects on metabolic processes . This study investigates the impact of BPA on hepatic function and transcriptional regulation in mouse livers and AML12 cells . Male mice were exposed to low ( 5 g/kg ) and high ( 50 g/kg ) doses of BPA for six weeks . Transcriptomic analysis was performed on liver tissues , and histological examinations were conducted . AML12 cells were treated with varying BPA concentrations , and PPARG transcriptional activity was assessed using a luciferase reporter assay . Additionally , molecular docking , molecular dynamics ( MD ) simulations , drug affinity responsive target stability ( DARTS ) , cellular thermal shift assay ( CETSA ) , MM-PBSA calculations , and multi-species protein structure comparative analysis were employed to analyse the interaction between BPA and PPARG . Transcriptomic analysis revealed a decrease in differentially expressed genes with higher BPA doses , with low-dose exposure significantly downregulating hepatic Cpt1a mRNA levels . Histological examination indicated lipid vacuole formation at high doses without collagen deposition . BPA consistently inhibited PPARG activity in both MCF7 cells and mouse livers . BPA exposure disrupts hepatic lipid metabolism and PPARG activity , highlighting its role as an endocrine disruptor . Further research is needed to elucidate the long-term effects of BPA on liver health .
INTRODUCTION : Medical conditions including obesity , diabetes , hyperlipidemia , and depression significantly increased risk of Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) . However , effect of their duration , influenced by non-modifiable factors like chromosomal sex and apolipoprotein E ( APOE ) genotype , remains unclear . METHODS : Data from 5644 UKBiobank participants were analyzed using Cox regression model to identify critical tipping points based on age of onset , risk factor ( RF ) duration and their interaction with sex and APOE genotype . RESULTS : Hypertension or diabetes before age 62 exerted greater AD risk than APOEepsilon4 alone . Obesity before age 62 increased AD risk by 54% , with the risk nearly tripling between ages 62- Hyperlipidemia and depression were associated with age-independent risk increases of 33% and 69% , respectively . After age 72 , APOEepsilon4 became the dominant RF . DISCUSSION : Duration of AD-risk-factors can have a greater impact than APOEepsilon Identification of critical age-related tipping points highlights temporal dynamics of AD progression and role of multisystem failure in AD progression . HIGHLIGHTS : AD risk factors impact AD onset , especially diagnosed between ages 62 and Later diagnoses of hypertension , diabetes , and obesity delayed AD onset . Hyperlipidemia and depression increased AD risk by 33% and 69% , age-independent . APOEepsilon4 carriers regardless of sex exhibited a higher risk increasing with age . Trajectories differed between APOEepsilon4 carriers and non-carriers across sex .
BACKGROUND : Maintenance of cerebral blood flow during orthostasis is impaired with aging and associated with cognitive decline , but the effect of the apolipoprotein varepsilon4 allele ( APOE4 ) is unknown . METHODS : Older adults ( n = 108 ) ( APOE4 carriers , n = 47 ; non-carriers , n = 61 ) diagnosed as having normal cognition ( NC ) , mild cognitive impairment ( MCI ) , or Alzheimer ' s disease ( AD ) underwent transcranial Doppler ultrasound assessment of middle cerebral artery blood velocity ( MCAv ) and beat-to-beat mean arterial blood pressure ( MAP ) during a sit-to-stand transition . Anticipatory and orthostasis-induced MCAv and MAP responses were compared between genotypes and diagnostic classifications . RESULTS : Cognitively normal APOE4 carriers showed greater anticipatory MCAv increase , greater MCAv decrease with orthostasis , and shorter latency of peripheral MAP responses to orthostasis compared to non-carriers . MCAv and MAP responses were delayed and attenuated across the APOE4 disease continuum , with no differences between genotypes in MCI and AD . DISCUSSION : Unique cerebral and peripheral vascular compensation observed in APOE4 carriers may be neuroprotective for AD development . HIGHLIGHTS : APOE4 carriers with NC show greater anticipatory increases in MCAv prior to orthostasis and decreases during orthostasis . APOE4 carriers with NC show faster peripheral MAP responses during orthostasis . APOE4 carriers with MCI and AD display loss of anticipatory MCAv responses . APOE4 carriers with MCI and AD display slower peripheral MAP responses . Unique cerebral and peripheral vascular compensation observed in APOE4 carriers may be neuroprotective for AD development .
BACKGROUND : Cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) remains the leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide . The triglyceride to high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ( TG/HDL ) ratio has emerged as a potential marker for CVD risk . However , its predictive value for high 10-year predicted Cardiovascular ( CV ) risk remains unclear ; This study evaluates the predictive value of the TG/HDL-C ratio for 10-year cardiovascular risk using the Framingham Heart Study ( FHS ) risk prediction model in individuals with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus ( T2DM ) . METHODS : A cross-sectional study was conducted on 61 , 004 adults from 2014 , 2015 , and 2018 aged 30-74 years with T2DM , without a history of CVD . The FHS model was used to estimate 10-year predicted CV risk , and high CVD risk was defined as >/= 20% . ROC curve analysis was used to determine the optimal TG/HDL cutoff for high 10-year predicted CV risk in the overall population and age-specific subgroups . Logistic regression was performed to find the association between TG/HDL and high 10-year predicted CV risk , adjusting for potential confounders . RESULTS : The optimal TG/HDL-C cutoff was 52 ( AUC = 618 , 95% CI : 612-624 ) , with 67% sensitivity and 50% specificity . Higher TG/HDL were associated with increased odds of high predicted CVD risk in a dose-dependent manner , with an adjusted odds ratio ( AOR ) of 16 ( 95% CI : 86-49 ) in the highest TG/HDL quartile ( > 91 ) . Age-stratified analysis identified lower cutoffs for older adults ( >/= 60 years : 42 , AUC = 694 ) than younger individuals ( < 60 years : 98 , AUC = 636 ) , indicating stronger predictive performance in older adults . CONCLUSIONS : The TG/HDL ratio is significantly associated with 10-year predicted CVD risk in T2DM with age-specific differences in predictive value . The lower cutoff for older adults ( 42 ) suggests even modest elevations indicate increased risk . These findings support TG/HDL integration into routine CVD risk assessments and highlight the importance of age-specific cutoffs for improved risk stratification .
BACKGROUND : Micro-/nanoplastics ( MNPLs ) are widely found in the environment and have toxic effects on various organs and systems . However , the role of the gut-cardiac axis in cardiotoxicity induced by MNPLs has not yet been elucidated through research . RESULTS : In this study , we examined the effects of 80 nm polystyrene nanoplastics ( PS-NPs ) on the heart and human cardiomyocytes ( AC16 ) cells . Histopathological examination showed that NPs caused impaired cardiac function and increased myocardial collagen deposition . In view of the potential influence of gut microbiota and its metabolites on cardiac function , we conduct this study to investigate the specific effects they have on cardiac function . Analysis of cecal contents by 16 s ribosomal RNA ( rRNA ) and short chain fatty acids ( SCFAs ) revealed that colonic tissue damage , intestinal flora disorder , and reduction of propionic acid induced by PS-MPs were closely related to cardiac function . Further transcriptomic analysis of heart and colon tissues indicated that propionic acid may reduce cardiac function by reducing the expression of fructose-1 , 6-biphosphatase 1 ( FBP1 ) . The hypothesis was further verified by in vitro intervention experiments with sodium propionate and FBP1 activator ( BML-275 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In summary , our study systematically demonstrated the role of gut-heart axis in NPs-induced cardiac injury , and the specific process was that NPs exposure reduced propionate level , which in turn inhibited FBP1 expression to impair cardiac function . These findings provide new insights into NPs-induced cardiotoxicity and identifie potential therapeutic targets , providing clues for the prevention and treatment of NPs-induced cardiac injury in the future .
BACKGROUND : Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease ( MASLD ) is closely associated with insulin resistance ( IR ) . However , the prognostic value of different alternative IR surrogates in patients with MASLD remains unclear . This study aimed to evaluate the association between various IR indices and all-cause mortality and cardiovascular mortality in MASLD patients . METHODS : A total of 8 , 753 adults aged >/= 20 years with MASLD from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey ( NHANES , 2003-2018 ) were included , and their mortality data were obtained from the National Death Index ( NDI ) . Insulin resistance surrogates [including the triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index , TyG-body mass index ( TyG-BMI ) , TyG-waist circumference index , TyG-waist-to-height ratio index , and Homeostatic Model Assessment for IR] were stratified into quartiles . Cox proportional hazards models , receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve analysis , restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) , mediation analyses , and subgroup analyses were used to explore the associations between these indices and all-cause mortality as well as cardiovascular mortality in MASLD patients . RESULTS : During a median follow-up of 98 months , 1 , 234 deaths were observed , including 409 cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) -related deaths . In the fully adjusted model , higher quartiles of TyG-related indices were significantly associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality in MASLD patients . Furthermore , the TyG-BMI index was associated with both all-cause mortality and CVD mortality [all-cause mortality : HR ( 95% CI ) 84 ( 73-67 ) , P < 001 ; CVD mortality : HR ( 95% CI ) 32 ( 26-49 ) , P < 001] . The RCS analyses indicated a U-shaped relationship between TyG-BMI and mortality , with a threshold value of Subgroup analyses demonstrated that TyG-related indices had stronger associations with mortality in elderly MASLD patients . CONCLUSIONS : Our findings highlight the prognostic value of IR indices , particularly TyG-BMI index , in predicting all-cause mortality and CVD mortality in MASLD patients .
BACKGROUND : Insulin resistance and central obesity are major risk factors for cardiometabolic diseases . The triglyceride-glucose index ( TyG ) and lipid accumulation product ( LAP ) are markers that independently predict cardiometabolic risk . However , their combined long-term trajectories and impact on cardiometabolic multimorbidity ( CMM ) development remain unclear . METHODS : This cohort study utilized data from the Coronary Artery Risk Development in Young Adults ( CARDIA ) study , which tracked 3467 participants at baseline . Dual-trajectory of TyG and LAP were identified using a group-based dual-trajectory model . Cox proportional hazards models were employed to assess the relationships between dual-trajectory groups and primary cardiometabolic outcomes , including first cardiometabolic disease ( FCMD ) , CMM ( two or more conditions such as type 2 diabetes , coronary heart disease , or stroke ) , and all-cause mortality . Multi-state models were performed to assess the associations of dual-trajectory with CMM development . RESULTS : The study included 3467 participants with a mean age of 08 years ( SD = 59 ) . Of these , 4% ( n = 1505 ) were male , and 2% ( n = 1561 ) were White . Three distinct dual-trajectory groups were identified : low-increasing ( 5% ) , high-amplitude fluctuation ( 6% ) , and high-increasing ( 9% ) . After multivariate adjustment , compared with the low-increasing group , the high-amplitude fluctuation group exhibited significantly higher risks for FCMD ( hazard ratio [HR] 38 , 95% confidence interval [CI] : 08-77 ) , CMM ( HR 63 , 95% CI 21-71 ) , and all-cause mortality ( HR 16 , 95% CI 30-56 ) , as well as elevated risks for transitions from baseline to FCMD ( HR 41 , 95% CI 17-63 ) , FCMD to CMM ( HR 07 , 95% CI 53-96 ) , CMM to death ( HR 87 , 95% CI 19-62 ) . The high-increasing group showed similar results . CONCLUSIONS : Elevated and fluctuating trajectories of TyG and LAP from early adulthood are associated with increased risks of CMM development in midlife .
Cancer remains as one of the most life-threatening diseases in the whole world . Most of the therapeutic strategies to eradicate cancer are highly invasive leading to severe injury and trauma to the patients . In recent times , phototherapy emerged as one of the non-invasive therapeutic strategies for cancer treatment . However , development of novel small molecule photothermal agents remained a major challenge . To address this , herein , we have designed and synthesized a small molecule library having aromatic substituted-3-methoxy-pyrrole and 2- ( 3-cyano-4 , 5 , 5-trimethylfuran-2 ( 5H ) -ylidene ) malononitrile in a concise synthetic strategy . One of the library members ( 7H ) , self-assembled into spherical-like nanoparticles having <100 nm size in water and was found to exhibit remarkable increase in temperature under 740 nm NIR light . Interestingly , compound 7H homed into the lysosomal compartments and the lipid droplets ( LDs ) in the HCT-116 colon cancer cells within 3h and induced photothermal effect ( PTT ) followed by generation of reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) while irradiating under 740 nm NIR light for 10 min . Moreover , 7H triggered programmed cell death ( apoptosis ) to induce remarkable HCT-116 cell killing . This small molecule-mediated photothermal effect showed potential to be an interesting tool for the next-generation non-invasive cancer phototherapy .
BACKGROUND : Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage ( aSAH ) is a life-threatening disease with high morbidity and mortality . The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index , a marker of insulin resistance ( IR ) , has been linked to adverse outcomes in cerebrovascular conditions ; however , its influence on functional prognosis in aSAH remains unclear . This study aimed to elucidate the relationship between the TyG index and functional outcomes in aSAH patients . METHODS : A retrospective cohort study included consecutive aSAH patients . Functional outcomes were assessed using the modified Rankin Scale ( mRS ) at 3 months and categorized as favorable ( mRS 0-2 ) or unfavorable ( mRS 3-6 ) . Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyzed the association between the TyG index and functional outcomes . Propensity score matching ( PSM ) was used to mitigate confounding . Non-linear relationships were explored with restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) , and subgroup analyses were performed . A nomogram integrating the TyG index and traditional prognostic scales was developed , and model predictive performance was compared using the area under the curve ( AUC ) on a test set . RESULTS : A total of 470 patients ( 7% female ) were enrolled , with 154 experiencing unfavorable outcomes . Multivariate logistic regression showed a significant association between the TyG index and adverse outcomes ( OR : 86 , 95% CI 12-1 , P = 017 ) . An optimal TyG index cutoff of 83 was identified . Patients with TyG index >/= 83 had a higher risk of poor outcomes ( 7% vs . 8% ; P = 015 ) . PSM confirmed these findings . RCS indicated a progressive association between elevated TyG index and increased risk of adverse functional outcome . Subgroup analyses showed consistent relationships . The enhanced model with the TyG index had a higher AUC ( 899 ) than the traditional model ( 889 , DeLong test P = 048 ) . CONCLUSIONS : A high TyG index is significantly associated with an increased risk of unfavorable functional outcomes in patients with aSAH .
BACKGROUND : In recent years , the use of long-chain polyunsaturated fatty acids ( PUFA ) omega3 and omega6 , as food supplements in livestock has increased due to their beneficial properties related to their antioxidant activity . It has been demonstrated however that a high intake of these substances has prooxidant and cell-damaging effects , especially if their circulating concentrations are unbalanced . Starting from these premises , and taking advantage of previous findings , the present study aimed at defining the optimal circulating concentrations and PUFAs omega3/omega6 ratio , to ensure the antioxidant/oxidant balance in sheep RBCs . RESULTS : All tested concentrations ( 25-300 microg/mL in PBS ) of PUFAs-omega3 after 4 h of treatment on sheep RBCs , showed antioxidant properties with a significant decrease in reactive oxygen species ( ROS ) versus the control group ( CTRL ) ( p < 05 ) . Furthermore , omega6 showed an antioxidant effect at low concentrations ( 25-200 g/mL ) but a pro-oxidant effect at the highest concentrations ( 250 and 300 microg/mL ) with a significant increase in ROS production ( 6 +/- 1 and 4 +/- 5% sloope RFU of CTRL respectively p < 0 , 001 ) , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) ( p < 01 ) , and haemolysis ( p < 01 ) versus CTRL group ( 1 +/- 1% ) , and , also with a decrease of Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity ( TEAC ) ( p < 0 , 05 ) . The ratio omega3/omega6 of 1 : 10 ( 25/250 microg/mL ) and 1 : 4 ( 25/100 microg/mL ) showed an intracellular ROS level like the CTRL group whereas , the ratio 1 : 2 ( 100/200 microg/mL ) resulted in a significant decrease in ROS production ( 71 +/- 31% slope RFU of CTRL , p < 001 ) and MDA ( p < 001 ) , with an increase in TEAC ( p < 05 ) , and a decrease haemolysis versus the control group ( p < 0 , 01 ) . CONCLUSIONS : Our results showed that a beneficial effect on the oxidative state of sheep RBCs was obtained with in vitro administration of low concentrations of omega6 and with all tested concentrations of omega The addition of omega6 at high concentrations leads to an imbalance in the PUFA omega3/omega6 ratio , compromising the oxidative state and viability of the RBCs . The maximum antioxidative effect was found at omega3/omega6 ratio 1 : 2 ) .
BACKGROUND : Obesity has become a critical public health challenge worldwide . Prioritizing prevention and tackling root causes-rather than merely managing symptoms-is critical to curbing this pandemic . Strategies that activate and expand brown adipose tissue and beige adipose tissue increase energy expenditure in animal models and offer therapeutic promise to treat obesity . Sanhuang Xiexin Decoction ( SHX ) is a well-known traditional Chinese medicine that possesses several beneficial effects , including anti-inflammatory and anti-atherosclerotic properties . This study aims to investigate whether SHX can alleviate obesity by promoting the browning process in adipose tissue . METHODS : UPLC MS/MS was used to detect the constituents of SHX extraction , as well as the absorbed components of SHX in rat plasma . In vivo , C57BL/6 J mice were fed with 60% calorie high-fat diet for 8 weeks to induce obesity . 3T3-L1 white adipocyte and HIB-1B brown adipocyte were cultured . Parameters of body weight , food intake , Lee ' s index , skin temperature , adipose tissue mass , and blood glucose and lipids of mice were detected . The histological features of BAT and iWAT were observed by H&E staining , and the protein expression of UCP1 in adipose tissue was detected by immunohistochemistry method , and the UCP1 protein expression of 3T3-L1 and HIB-1B cells was tested using immunofluorescence staining . Gene expression of browning markers ( e . g . Ucp1 , Pgc1alpha , Prdm16 , Cidea , Cd137 , Tbx1 , and Tmem26 ) , fatty acid oxidation factors ( e . g . Cpt-1beta , Cyto-c , and Fatp1 ) and mitochondrial biogenic transcription factors ( e . g . Nrf1 , Nrf2 , and Tfam ) of adipose tissue , 3T3-L1 and HIB-1B cells was detected using qRT-PCR method . RESULTS : A total of 58 chemical components of Sanhuang Xiexin Decoction were identified by UPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap-MS ( n ) method , which provided the basis for the basic research of SHX pharmacodynamic substances . In vivo , SHX extraction could reduce body weight gain , improve glucose and lipid metabolism , enhance the activity of brown adipose tissue and induce the development of brown-like adipocytes of iWAT in obese mice . Furthermore , SHX extraction improved the gene expression of brown markers including Ucp1 , Pgc1alpha and Prdm16 , and mitochondrial biogenic transcription factors including Nrf1 and Tfam , as well as the UCP1 protein levels in white and brown adipocytes . CONCLUSIONS : Our study suggested that Sanhuang Xiexin Decoction could be used as a potential therapeutic candidate for the treatment of obesity and its complications by inducing browning of white adipose tissue and activating brown adipose tissue .
BACKGROUND : Delayed administration of polymyxin B hemoperfusion ( PMX-HP ) for septic shock could diminish its efficacy in real-world clinical settings . METHODS : BEAT-SHOCK ( BEst Available Treatment for septic SHOCK ) registry is a prospective registry consisting of 309 adult patients with septic shock requiring high-dose norepinephrine ( >/= 2 mug/kg/min ) . This predetermined analysis included 82 patients treated with PMX-HP . They were grouped according to the median time from intensive care unit ( ICU ) admission to administration of PMX-HP : the early administration group ( n = 40 ) and the late administration group ( n = 42 ) . The primary outcome was short-term hemodynamic status , including mean arterial pressure and vasoactive-inotropic score ( VIS ; calculated from doses of dopamine , dobutamine , norepinephrine , epinephrine , vasopressin , milrinone , and levosimendan ) within 48 h after ICU admission . RESULTS : The median time from ICU admission to administration of PMX-HP was 265 min ( interquartile range [IQR] : 113-480 ) . The median ages were 70 ( IQR : 59-81 ) and 72 ( IQR : 64-80 ) years ( P = 77 ) , and 21/40 ( 53% ) and 25/42 ( 60% ) patients were male ( P = 52 ) in the early and late administration groups , respectively . The dose of norepinephrine at ICU admission was 33 ( IQR : 24-47 ) and 30 ( IQR : 22-34 ) mug/kg/min in the early and late administration groups , respectively ( P = 17 ) . Within 48 h after ICU admission , mean arterial pressure was significantly higher at 6 h and 8 h , and VIS was significantly lower at 8 h and thereafter in the early administration group . Within a 28-day period , there were 23 ( IQR : 21-25 ) and 21 ( IQR : 0-24 ) vasopressor/inotrope-free days ( P = 027 ) , and 18 ( IQR : 1-23 ) and 14 ( IQR : 0-19 ) ICU-free days ( P = 025 ) in the early and late administration groups , respectively . The cumulative mortality at 90 days was 3% in the early administration group and 3% in the late administration group ( adjusted hazard ratio 38 ; 95% confidence interval 13-09 ) . CONCLUSIONS : In patients with septic shock , early administration of PMX-HP was associated with higher mean arterial pressure and lower VIS within 48 h after ICU admission . Additionally , it may be associated with an improved clinical course , represented by more ICU-free and vasopressor/inotrope-free days . Trial registration UMIN Clinical Trial Registry on 1 November 2019 ( registration no . UMIN000038302 ) .
BACKGROUND : Definition and staging rationale of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic syndrome were developed . The utility of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic construct in risk stratification and target strategies of health and behavior modifications needs to be addressed . The study aims to investigate the individual and combined associations of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stage and cardiovascular health ( CVH ) by Life ' s Essential 8 ( LE 8 ) with incident cardiovascular events ( CVD ) , and determine the distribution and contribution of domain-specific CVH across cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stages . METHODS : The study included 100 , 727 individuals in the China Cardiovascular Disease and Cancer Cohort with complete data on cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic factors and LE 8 metrics , with a median follow-up of 1 years . Cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stages and CVH metrics ( nicotine exposure , diet , physical activity , sleep , body mass index , blood lipids , blood pressure , blood glucose ) were defined according to Presidential Advisory from the American Heart Association . Incident CVD events including cardiovascular death , myocardial infarction , and stroke were validated . The Fine-Gray hazard model was used to calculate hazard ratios ( HRs ) and 95% confidence intervals ( CIs ) of CKM stages or CVH status associated with CVD . RESULTS : Compared with cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stage 0 , the adjusted competing HRs and 95% CIs of CVD events were 20 ( 95-51 ) , 45 ( 97-04 ) , 43 ( 53-58 ) , and 95 ( 75-45 ) from stage 1 to stage 4 , respectively . Optimal CVH status and each optimal CVH metric presented a significantly decreased risk of CVD events . Variation was observed in the association between cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stage and CVD events with different CVH status or numbers of optimal CVH metrics . Compared with those in stage 0 , Participants in stage 1 or 2 with optimal CVH no longer had elevated risks for incident CVD events . Suboptimal health factor contributed larger population attributable fractions to CVD events in cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stage 0-2 ( 2% ) than in stage 3-4 ( 2% ) , whereas suboptimal health behavior exhibited larger contribution in advanced stages ( 1% in stage 0-2 and 2% in stage 3-4 ) . CONCLUSIONS : The study indicated that cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic stage was associated with cardiovascular events , and optimal cardiovascular health could attenuate this risk . Health factor contributed predominantly at the early-stage , whereas health behavior exhibited consistent and slightly increased contribution along the spectrum . These findings support the utility of cardiovascular-kidney-metabolic construct and highlight the importance of target health improvement based on LE 8 framework .
OBJECTIVES : This study aims to investigate the correlations between oxidized lipoproteins , specifically oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( oxLDL ) and oxidized high-density lipoprotein ( oxHDL ) , and the comorbidities of T2DM and PTB ( T2DM + PTB ) . METHODS : This prospective study included 360 cases from May 2022 to May The cohort consisted of 60 cases of pure hyperlipidemia , 100 cases of PTB , 100 cases of T2DM , and 100 cases of T2DM + PTB . Each of the PTB , T2DM , and T2DM + PTB groups was further subdivided into a normal lipid subgroup ( 40 cases ) and a hyperlipidemia subgroup ( 60 cases ) . Additionally , 40 healthy individuals served as a control group . The age range of participants spanned from 8 +/- 36 to 34 +/- 52 years . Venous blood samples were collected from each group to measure levels of HbA1c , insulin ( INS ) , fasting serum glucose ( FSG ) , total cholesterol ( TC ) , triglycerides ( TG ) , HDL-C , LDL-C , apolipoprotein A-I ( ApoA I ) , apolipoprotein B ( Apo B ) , oxidized low-density lipoprotein ( oxLDL ) , and oxidized high-density lipoprotein ( oxHDL ) . Multivariate logistic regression analysis assessed the association of oxLDL and oxHDL levels with PTB . RESULTS : The levels of oxLDL and oxHDL in the pure hyperlipidemia group , PTB hyperlipidemia subgroup , T2DM hyperlipidemia subgroup , and T2DM + PTB hyperlipidemia subgroup were significantly elevated compared to those in the control group . Correlation analysis demonstrated a positive correlation between TG and LDL-C with oxLDL in the T2DM hyperlipidemia subgroup and the T2DM + PTB hyperlipidemia subgroup . TC and LDL-C were also positively correlated with oxLDL in the PTB hyperlipidemia subgroup . All hyperlipidemia groups exhibited a positive correlation between TG and oxHDL . Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that oxLDL >/=2362U/L~<4724 U/L ( more than 2 times higher than the control group ) and oxHDL >/= 26 mug/L ( more than 4 times higher than the control group ) were relative risk factors for PTB . CONCLUSION : Significantly elevated oxLDL and oxHDL levels may be risk factors for PTB and may influence the comorbidity of T2DM and PTB . Further evaluation of pathological levels with oxLDL levels exceeding twice the control group and oxHDL levels exceeding four times the control group is recommended .
Glucocorticoids , acting through the glucocorticoid receptor ( GR ) , control metabolism , maintain homeostasis , and enable adaptive responses to environmental challenges . Their function has been comprehensively studied , leading to identification of numerous tissue-specific GR-dependent mechanisms . Abundant evidence shows that GR-triggered responses differ across tissues , however , the extent of this specificity was not comprehensively explored . It is also unknown how particular GR-induced molecular patterns are translated into profile of higher-level human traits . Here , we examine cross-tissue effects of GR activation on gene expression . We assessed changes induced by stimulation with GR agonist , dexamethasone in nine tissues ( adrenal cortex , perigonadal adipose tissue , hypothalamus , liver , kidney , anterior thigh muscle , pituitary gland , spleen , and lungs ) in adult male C57BL/6 mice , using whole-genome microarrays . Dexamethasone induced balanced transcriptional responses across all examined tissues with 585 identified dexamethasone-regulated transcripts , including 446 with significant treatment-tissue interaction effects . Clustering analysis revealed sixteen GR-dependent patterns , including those universal across tissues and tissue-specific . We leveraged existing gene annotations and created new annotation sets based on chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing , recent large-scale genome-wide association studies , and human transcriptome collections . As expected , GR-dependent transcripts were associated with essential metabolic processes ( glycolysis/gluconeogenesis , lipid-metabolism ) and inflammation-related pathways . Beyond these , we found novel links between regulated gene patterns and human phenotypic traits , like reticulocyte count or blood triglyceride levels . Overall effects of GR stimulation are well coordinated and closely linked to biological roles of tissues and organs . Our findings provide novel insights into complex systemic and tissue-specific actions of glucocorticoids and their potential impacts on human physiology and pathology .
BACKGROUND : The triglycerideglucose body mass index ( TyG-BMI ) has been recognized as a significant predictor of cardiovascular disease risk and plays a crucial role in assessing insulin resistance . However , the correlation between the TyG-BMI and clinical outcomes in patients with sepsis and acute heart failure ( AHF ) has not been sufficiently explored . This study aimed to investigate the associations between TyG-BMI and clinical outcomes in patients with sepsis and AHF . METHODS : We conducted a retrospective analysis of ICU-admitted patients via data from the MIMIC-IV database . Multivariable logistic regression , sensitivity analysis , and restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) models were used to assess the relationship between TyG-BMI and all-cause mortality . KM survival analysis and Boruta analysis were employed to evaluate the predictive value of the TyG-BMI . Subgroup analyses considered the effects of age , sex , ethnicity , and comorbidities . RESULTS : Among the 1 , 729 patients , a higher TyG-BMI was associated with lower all-cause mortality at 90 and 180 days . Each standard deviation increase in the TyG-BMI was linked to 2% and 3% reductions in 90-day and 180-day all-cause mortality , respectively . KaplanMeier analysis revealed significantly lower all-cause mortality in patients with higher TyG-BMIs ( P < 0001 ) . The RCS model revealed a nonlinear relationship between the TyG-BMI and mortality . Boruta analysis identified the TyG-BMI as an important clinical feature . Sensitivity analyses revealed that the association remained significant after patients with myocardial infarction , malignancies , or missing data were excluded . The subgroup analysis revealed that for the 90-day and 180-day mortality rates , significant interactions were found only in the subgroup of patients with kidney diseases ( P < 05 ) . CONCLUSION : The TyG-BMI may have potential value in predicting mortality in ICU patients with sepsis and AHF , supporting early risk assessment and clinical intervention . This study provides critical insights into patient prognosis .
OBJECTIVE : Triglyceride-to-glucose index ( TyG index ) and inflammation are both independent risk factors for diabetes . However , only a few studies have combined TyG index with inflammation indices to predict diabetes risk . C-reactive protein-triglyceride-to-glucose index ( CTI index ) , as a new type of lipid and inflammation marker , can comprehensively assess the severity of insulin resistance and inflammation . This study explores the association between CTI index and diabetes risk . METHODS : We recruited a total of 6 , 728 participants from the China Health and Retirement Longitudinal Study ( CHARLS ) who had no history of diabetes at baseline . After determining the key predictors using the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator ( LASSO ) technique , the relationship between the CTI index and the risk of new-onset diabetes was assessed using multivariate COX regression , the mediating effect between insulin resistance and inflammatory indicators was explored , and restricted cubic splines ( RCS ) were applied to explore the association between the CTI index and the risk of new-onset diabetes . In addition , we used decision tree analysis to identify people at high risk of diabetes , calculated time-dependent Harrell ' s C index ( 95% CI ) to assess the predictive ability of TyG , CRP , CTI and CRP + TyG for new-onset diabetes , and further calculated IDI and NRI to assess the predictive ability of CTI and TyG . Finally , we performed subgroup analyses for different subgroups using stratified COX proportional hazard regression models ; and a series of sensitivity analyses were performed to verify the robustness of our results . RESULTS : The incidence of diabetes was 9% during the 9-year follow-up . COX regression analysis showed that the risk ratio for diabetes increased gradually with an increase in the CTI index . The RCS curve confirmed the existence of a linear relationship between the CTI index and the risk of diabetes . Decision tree analysis showed that the CTI index was a key indicator of diabetes risk . In addition , the CTI index is a much better predictor of the onset of diabetes risk than the TyG index , as demonstrated by the integrated discrimination improvement ( IDI ) and net reclassification improvement ( NRI ) . CONCLUSION : An increase in CTI levels is closely related to diabetes risk , and the CTI index may become a unique predictor of diabetes risk . CLINICAL TRIAL NUMBER : Not applicable .
BACKGROUND : Gestational diabetes mellitus ( GDM ) is a prevalent pregnancy disorder . In recent years , numerous studies have affirmed the augmented risk of obesity and diabetes mellitus in the offspring of affected individuals . Exclusive breastfeeding has been vigorously advocated as an infant feeding practice in various countries . We aimed to test our hypothesis that human milk of women with gestational diabetes differs from that of non-GDM women . METHODS : For this systematic review and meta-analysis , we searched the CNKI , PubMed , Web of Science databases , and citations for studies published between Jan 1 , 2000 and Sep 26 , We included all studies related to human milk macronutrients . We did separate meta-analyses for carbohydrates , proteins , lipids , and energy of the colostrum and mature human milk . All analyses were performed using Revman 1 ( Review Manager ) . The quality of the evidence was assessed with the NOS scale . Registration does not apply . FINDINGS : Of 377 records identified , 9 records were available , all of which had a moderate to high quality . Compared to non-GDM women , the colostrum of GDM women exhibited a higher protein content ( MD = 04 , 95% CI : 00~07 , P = 03 ) , while there were no significant disparities in carbohydrates , lipids , and energy . Simultaneously , the mature human milk of GDM women had a higher protein content ( MD = 01 , 95% CI : 00~02 , P = 007 ) and a higher lipid content ( MD = 19 , 95% CI : 08~31 , P = 001 ) , with no significant differences in carbohydrates and energy . INTERPRETATION : There are many factors affecting the composition of human milk and fewer studies have been conducted on the composition of human milk . More high-quality studies are needed to validate the relationship between macronutrients in colostrum and carbohydrate in mature milk content with GDM .
BACKGROUND : Cardiometabolic index ( CMI ) is an index integrating visceral obesity and dyslipidemia . This study intends to scrutinize the connection between CMI and gallstone disease ( GSD ) and to elucidate the association between CMI and insulin resistance ( IR ) in patients with GSD . METHODS : To explore the potential nonlinear association and determine the inflection point , a restricted cubic spline ( RCS ) analysis was performed . Following categorization of CMI based on the identified inflection point , multivariate logistic regression models , subgroup analyses , and interaction tests were utilized to assess the connection between CMI and GSD , as well as between CMI and IR in GSD patients . The homeostasis model assessment for IR ( HOMA-IR ) and triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index was applied to evaluate IR . Spearman analysis was implemented to investigate the connection between CMI and HOMA-IR . The predictive performance of each indicator was evaluated by the receiver operating characteristic ( ROC ) curve and the area under the curve ( AUC ) . RESULTS : The study included 2311 individuals , with a GSD prevalence of 90% . RCS analysis revealed a nonlinear positive correlation between CMI and GSD ( nonlinear P < 001 ) , as well as between CMI and IR ( nonlinear P < 001 ) . In the fully adjusted multivariable logistic regression analysis of covariates , compared with the low-category CMI group , the high-category CMI was significantly associated with the risk of GSD ( OR = 547 , 95% CI : 143-092 , P = 005 ) , IR ( OR = 990 , 95% CI : 517-892 , P < 001 ) . Subgroup analysis demonstrated that the correlation between CMI and GSD was stronger in females . Spearman correlation analysis showed a positive association between CMI and HOMA-IR in GSD patients ( r = 548 , P < 001 ) . The ROC curve demonstrated the predictive performance of the CMI model for GSD ( AUC = 743 ) , which was superior to conventional indicators such as Body Mass Index and Waist Circumference ; the predictive performance of CMI ( AUC = 772 ) for IR was consistent with that of TyG ( AUC = 772 ) . CONCLUSION : Our research demonstrates that CMI exhibits a nonlinear positive correlation with the incidence of GSD and IR . This suggests that CMI may serve as a novel and valuable indicator for further investigating the intricate relationships among metabolic syndrome , obesity , and GSD .
The ERF transcription factor can regulate the biosynthesis of various secondary metabolites , including triterpenoid saponins , in plants . DaERF9 has been found to be a potential regulatory factor in the accumulation of asperosaponin VI in Dipsacus asper . However , its underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear . Here , we cloned the transcription factor DaERF9 , which promotes the accumulation of asperosaponin VI in D . asper . Metabolomic analysis showed that wound stress significantly increased the content of asperosaponin VI and jasmonic acid , while the expression level of DaERF9 was markedly enhanced during this process , suggesting that DaERF9 plays a regulatory role in the wound-induced synthesis of asperosaponin VI by JA signaling pathway . Transgenic DaERF9 promoted the synthesis of precursor compounds of asperosaponin VI in Arabidopsis , activating the triterpenoid saponin biosynthesis pathway . MeJA induction enhanced the expression of the key enzyme gene DaHMGCR , which is involved in the synthesis of asperosaponin VI in transgenic DaERF Wound treatment markedly increased the transcriptional level of DaERF9 and the content of JA , and DaERF9 was able to interact with the DaHMGCR promoter , activating the activity of DaHMGCR . Overall , our findings suggest that DaERF9 plays a crucial role in the synthesis of asperosaponin VI in D . asper and elucidate the transcriptional regulatory mechanism of JA-induced accumulation of asperosaponin VI .
Per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances ( PFAS ) are ubiquitous persistent organic pollutants . The neurotoxic and cardiometabolic effects of PFAS are well documented , leading to the hypothesis that exposure increases dementia risk . However , empirical data on PFAS in relation to cognitive impairment and dementia are weak , limited , and inconsistent . This report reviews the literature on PFAS and cognitive impairment and provides a rationale and overview of the PFAS VascCog Longitudinal Study , a new study using the population-based Northern Manhattan Study cohort , to prospectively examine serum concentrations of 13 PFAS in relation to lipids , carotid atherosclerosis , cognitive impairment , and dementia . We hypothesize that PFAS deleteriously impact cognition through a pathway involving hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis . Rigorous examination of PFAS exposure in relation to dementia is needed to inform public health policies on PFAS-containing products , support regulations to reduce community exposure , and provide new avenues to protect cognitive health and impact dementia at the individual and community levels . HIGHLIGHTS : PFAS exposure increases cardiometabolic risk factors and neurotoxicity . Data on PFAS in relation to cognitive health is limited , weak , and controversial . We hypothesize that PFAS exposure increases dementia risk . We hypothesize a mechanistic pathway involving hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis . Rigorous study of PFAS exposure and dementia risk can inform public health policy .
Traumatic brain injury ( TBI ) causes neuroinflammation and can generate long-term pathological consequences , including motor and visual impairments , cognitive deficits , and depression . In our previous study , we found that Fat1 ( + ) -transgenic mice with higher endogenous n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids ( n-3 PUFA ) were protected from post-TBI behavioral deficits and exhibited reduced levels of TBI-induced microglial activation , inflammatory factors , and sphingolipid ceramide , a lipid mediator of inflammation and cell death . This study ' s objective was to evaluate if feeding n-3 PUFA ( EPA and docosahexaenoic acid , DHA 2 : 1 ) could restrict the elevation of ceramide in brain tissue and prevent TBI-mediated sensory-motor and behavioral deficits . Wildtype C57/BL6 mice were gavage pre-fed with PUFA ( EPA : DHA = 2 : 1 ) at 500 mg/kg body weight/week for 2 weeks before and 4 weeks after exposure to left side focal cranial air-blast ( 50 psi ) TBI or sham-blast ( 0-psi ) . Saline-gavaged mice served as controls . Following blast injury , various motor , visual , and behavioral tests were conducted , and brain tissues were collected for histological and biochemical assays . Lipidomics analysis confirmed a significant elevation of EPA in the plasma and brain tissue of PUFA-fed mice . TBI-Blast brain tissues were found to have elevated ceramide levels in control mice but not in PUFA-fed mice . Moreover , PUFA-fed mice demonstrated protection against motor impairment , photoreceptor dysfunction , depression , oculomotor nerve degeneration , and microglia activation in the optic tract . Our results demonstrate that EPA-mediated suppression of ceramide biosynthesis and neuroinflammatory factors in PUFA-fed mice is associated with significant protection against the visual , motor , and emotional deficits caused by TBI .
Propolis is high in bioactive compounds that can be utilised for its therapeutic properties . Yet , there are still limited research done , especially on the Malaysian stingless bee propolis . The present study highlights the analysis of bioactive compounds and the assessment of heavy metals in propolis extracts produced by Malaysian stingless bees . The propolis samples of three stingless bee species , namely Tetrigona apicalis , Tetrigona binghami , and Homotrigona fimbriata of the same environmental and ecological conditions , were collected in Selangor , Malaysia . The aim of this study was to evaluate the concentrations of various compounds ( carbohydrates , lipids , vitamin C , phenols , flavonoids , amino acids , and terpenoids ) and to identify individual bioactive components using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry ( GC-MS ) . It was found that lipids had the highest average concentrations in all the extracts , and over 30 active compounds were identified in the ethanolic propolis extracts when analysed using GC-MS . Several significant chemical groups were present in the propolis extracts that were investigated , such as ketones , terpenoids , hydrocarbons , carboxylic acids , and alkaloids . Besides , a significantly ( p < 05 ) higher concentration of lead was found in H . fimbriata ( 026 +/- 01 mg/L ) compared to other samples . Heavy metal analysis demonstrated that H . fimbriata contained significantly higher Pb ( 026 +/- 01 mg/L ) compared to T . apicalis ( 024 +/- 00 mg/L ) and T . binghami ( 016 +/- 00 mg/L ) . T . binghami had a significantly higher As concentration ( 002 +/- 00 mg/L ) than H . fimbriata , while Cd , Zn , and Cr levels were not significantly different across samples . All heavy metal concentrations were within permissible limits set by FAO/WHO and Malaysian Food Regulations . The presented results indicate that Malaysian stingless bee propolis is rich in phenolics , flavonoids , and other active compounds that could potentially contribute to various potent biological activities commonly exhibited by propolis . Further studies on propolis need to be carried out in the future for a better understanding of propolis applications in various sectors .
Tissue-specific RDR6 compensation rescues Arabidopsis defects while maintaining seed polyunsaturated fatty acid accumulation , balancing co-suppression relief and key trait retention for modular engineering . The transgene-induced co-suppression of fatty acid desaturase 2 ( FAD2 ) can be effectively released in rdr6 mutant , enabling a significant increase in polyunsaturated fatty acid ( PUFA ) content in seeds . However , the global suppression of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase 6 ( RDR6 ) compromises plant growth and disease resistance . To address this limitation , we developed a spatiotemporal compensation strategy by restoring RDR6 expression in non-seed tissues using tissue-specific promoters while maintaining its low expression during seed maturation . To implement this goal , we identified P ( BnTC06 ) , a Brassica napus promoter , through transcriptomic data mining and functional characterization . GUS staining revealed that the P ( BnTC06 ) promoter drives strong gene expression in vegetative tissues ( e . g . , leaves , stems , and flowers ) but exhibits negligible activity in mid- to late-stage-developing seeds . We introduced P ( BnTC06 ) : : RDR6 into Pha : : AtFAD2/rdr6-11 , the previously established high- PUFA Arabidopsis line . This intervention rescued the rdr6 mutant phenotype ( characterized by gracile , downward-curling leaves ) to wild-type morphology and restored RDR6 expression across non-seed tissues , while maintaining minimal expression in middle and late developing seeds . Crucially , FAD2 transcript levels remained at a high level during late seed development , resulting in sustained high PUFA accumulation in mature seeds . This strategy establishes a practical strategy to circumvent transgene co-suppression and proposes a modular framework for precision breeding of complex traits in crops .
BACKGROUND : We assessed the associations of visceral adiposity indexes such as Chinese Visceral Adiposity Index ( CVAI ) , Visceral Adiposity Index ( VAI ) , Lipid Accumulation Product ( LAP ) , waist circumference ( WC ) , and waist-hip ratio ( WHR ) with overall and specific cancer incidence in a Chinese population . METHODS : 332 , 297 individuals from the Taiwan MJ cohort ( 1996-2007 ) were included . We utilized multivariable Cox proportional hazards models to examine associations of baseline visceral adiposity indexes and cancer incidences . Sex-specific CVAI , VAI , and LAP were calculated , incorporating WC and triglycerides levels . CVAI and VAI also included body mass index and high-density lipoprotein , with CVAI further incorporating age . RESULTS : Higher CVAI was consistently associated with higher overall cancer incidence , with HRs of 45 ( 95% CI : 2-76 ) and 03 ( 95% CI : 52-72 ) for males and females , respectively , comparing the fifth quintile to the first . The HRs for WC were 27 ( 95% CI : 08-49 ) and 19 ( 95% CI : 01-40 ) for males and females , WHR was significantly associated with cancer risk in males ( HR : 28 ; 95% CI : 13-45 ) , and LAP was significantly associated with cancer risk in females ( HR : 25 ; 95% CI : 04-5 ) . VAI was not associated with overall cancer incidence . DISCUSSION : CVAI is a superior clinical biomarker for predicting cancer incidence in the Chinese population compared to traditional visceral obesity indices .
A common complication of type 2 diabetes is hypercholesterolemia in many patients . It is still unclear , nevertheless , how high-density lipoprotein cholesterol ratio ( TC/HDL-C ) , total cholesterol , and diabetes are related . The purpose of this study is to look at the prediction ability and causal relationship between TC/HDL-C and diabetes . This study included 117 , 268 subjects who were undergoing physical examinations . The subjects were grouped into four equal groups according to the TC/HDL-C quartiles ; the main outcome was the occurrence of diabetes events . TC/HDL-C is calculated as total cholesterol divided by high-density lipoprotein cholesterol . In 1 years ( +/- 95 ) of follow-up , 795 women ( 68% ) and 1 , 894 men ( 62% ) received new diabetes diagnoses . TC/HDL-C is an independent predictor of new-onset diabetes , according to multivariable Cox regression analysis ( HR 27 per SD increase , 95% CI : 09-48 , P for trend < 001 ) . It turned out that a cutoff value of 55 ( area under the curve 64 , sensitivity 66 , specificity 56 ) , was ideal for TC/HDL-C in predicting new-onset diabetes . A subgroup analysis demonstrated that the younger population had a significantly higher risk of TC/HDL-C-related diabetes than the middle-aged group ( interaction P < 05 ) . After controlling for confounding variables , this Chinese cohort study reveals a direct correlation between TC/HDL-C and diabetes , with a stronger independent association observed in younger and middle-aged individuals .
The aim of this research was to examine the potential toxic or beneficial impacts of 4 , 5 , 6-Trimethoxy-2 , 3-diphenyl indole on fingerlings of Labeo rohita when administered in water . The study involved four groups of Labeo rohita fish ( n = 40 ) exposed to varying water-borne concentrations ( 00 , 08 , 13 and 26 mg/L ) of 4 , 5 , 6-Trimethoxy-2 , 3-diphenyl indole over a fourteen day period . The fish were maintained under standard living conditions to minimize stress . Histological examination of the brain and gills revealed abnormal tissue structure only in the high-concentration group . The high-concentration group displayed aneurysms , degenerative changes , blood vessel congestion , and structural degeneration in the gills , while the brain exhibited necrosis , pyknosis , hemorrhage , degenerative changes and vacuolization . Levels of glutathione ( GSH ) decreased in both gills and brain , malondialdehyde ( MDA ) increased in gills but decreased in the brain , catalase ( CAT ) decreased in gills but increased in the brain and lipid peroxidase ( LPO ) significantly increased in both gills and brain only in the high-concentration group . Serum proteins ( total proteins , albumin , and globulins ) were significantly reduced in the high concentration group . Overall , the study indicated that at a high concentration of 26 mg/L through water-borne exposure , 4 , 5 , 6-Trimethoxy-2 , 3-diphenyl indole exhibited toxic effects , while at medium and low concentrations , it demonstrated beneficial effects . The findings suggest that the compound has more beneficial than toxic effects and could be recommended for specific applications to leverage its beneficial properties .
Women with polycystic ovary syndrome ( PCOS ) often experience infertility , potentially mediated by metabolic factors altered by elevated body mass index ( BMI ) . While triglycerides ( TG ) , low-density lipoprotein ( LDL ) , high-density lipoprotein ( HDL ) , and fasting blood sugar ( FBS ) are known mediators in the BMI-infertility relationship , the extent of their mediation effects remains unquantified in prior studies . This study quantifies the mediation effect of these metabolic factors . We conducted a cross-sectional study on 669 women diagnosed with PCOS at a tertiary hospital in Tehran , Iran , from 2021 to Data on BMI , TG , LDL , HDL , and FBS were collected , with infertility defined as the inability to conceive after 12 months of unprotected intercourse . Mediation analysis was performed using the Karlson Holm Breen ( KHB ) method , adjusting for age . Higher BMI was associated with increased levels of TG , LDL , and FBS and decreased HDL , all of which ( except for LDL ) were linked to infertility . Mediation analysis revealed that after adjusting for age , TG , HDL , and FBS significantly mediated the BMI-infertility association , accounting for 98% , 19% , and 7% of the effect , respectively . Our study identified TG , HDL , and FBS as significant mediators of the BMI-infertility link , with over half of the association mediated through these factors . Targeting metabolic improvements may help reduce infertility risk in this population .
Essential oils derived from Eucalyptus globules Labill . ( EGEOs ) represent a significant class of bioactive metabolites with broad applications in medicinal and pharmaceutical industries . Despite their various biological activities , the potential of EGEOs to inhibit tyrosinase , a key enzyme in melanin biosynthesis , remains unexplored . Then , this study delineates the inhibitory effects of EGEOs on tyrosinase . Our findings indicated that EGEOs acted as one reversible and non-competitive inhibitor toward tyrosinase , presenting an inhibition rate of 6% ( 10 mg/ml ) . Circular dichroism ( CD ) spectral analysis suggested that EGEOs induced conformational changes in tyrosinase , potentially disrupting its catalytic function . The binding of EGEOs to tyrosinase , as evidenced by ANS binding assays , led to the exposure of hydrophobic regions within the enzyme , further impairing its activity . Molecular docking studies illustrated the specific interactions between the major metabolite of EGEOs , 1 , 8-cineole , and tyrosinase . Moreover , the impact of EGEOs on melanin production was assessed in B16F10 melanoma cells , demonstrating a significant reduction in intracellular melanin content upon EGEOs treatment . Collectively , these results suggested EGEOs as one promising natural tyrosinase inhibitor with potential applications in treating hyperpigmentation and associated skin disorders .
The triglyceride-glucose ( TyG ) index is regarded as a surrogate marker of systemic insulin resistance ( IR ) . Studies have substantiated the impact of IR on cardiovascular diseases . Nonetheless , the prognostic value of the TyG index in critical patients with heart failure ( HF ) with intensive care unit ( ICU ) admission remains unclear . This study aims to assess the association between the TyG index and all-cause mortality in critically ill patients with HF . Patients with HF requiring ICU admission were identified from the Medical Information Mart for Intensive Care IV ( MIMIC-IV ) database and subsequently stratified into quartiles based on their TyG index . The primary outcome was 30-day all-cause mortality , and the secondary outcome was 1-year all-cause mortality . The relationship between the TyG index and all-cause mortality in HF patients was analyzed using multivariable Cox proportional hazards models and restricted cubic splines . A total of 1220 patients ( 4% men ) were enrolled , with a mean age of 6 years . The 30-day and one-year all-cause mortality rate were 7% and 6% , respectively . Multivariable Cox regression revealed that TyG index was significantly associated with an elevated risk of 30-day all-cause mortality ( adjusted HR , 360 ; 95% CI , 093-694 ; P = 006 ) , but not with one-year mortality ( adjusted HR 046 ; 95% CI 895-222 , P = 574 ) . Restricted cubic splines showed a progressively increasing risk of 30-day mortality was linearly related to an elevated TyG index . Subgroup analyses indicated a more prominent association between TyG index and 30-day mortality in patients with age </= 65 , female or BMI > 30 kg/m . In critically ill patients with HF , the TyG index is significantly associated with short-term all-cause mortality . Our results highlight that the TyG index can be useful in identifying HF patients at high risk of all-cause mortality and require close follow-up after discharge .
Liver transplantation is the only curative option for end-stage liver disease . Donor shortages necessitate the use of higher risk donor livers , including fatty livers , which are more susceptible to ischemia-reperfusion injury . Machine perfusion has improved graft utilization and is typically performed at hypothermic ( 8-12 degrees C ) or normothermic ( 35-37 degrees C ) temperatures . Here we studied the impact of mild hyperthermia ( 40 degrees C ) as a therapeutic intervention for fatty livers using in-depth proteomic and lipoprotein profiling of whole organ perfusion and precision-cut liver slices . We observed proteomic changes with metabolic alterations over time , evidenced by a significant increase in lipid export in whole organ perfusions . Furthermore , PCLS showed significant upregulation of metabolic processes and heat shock protein response after 24 h of hyperthermia . Machine perfusion under hyperthermic conditions may be a potential strategy to improve the utilization of fatty liver grafts , ultimately expanding the donor pool and improving transplant outcomes .
In the cell , Ras GTPases function as membrane-bound molecular switches for a variety of cell signaling pathways . Ras isoforms have long been of interest because of the connection between amino acid mutations and tumorigenesis . Much research focused on Ras has used truncated , solubilized constructs , which exclude the membrane-binding domain and therefore ignore the effects of membrane binding on Ras function . Since the membrane is a highly charged surface , it could have a significant impact on the electrostatic environment at or near the protein-protein interface . Here , we use a thiocyanate probe chemically inserted into the Ras-binding domain of RalGDS to investigate the effect of membrane binding at the Ras active site . Changes in the electric field caused by the membrane were measured by the probe as vibrational energy shifts in the infrared ( IR ) spectrum . For a selection of mutants which caused large shifts at this interface on the soluble H-Ras construct , binding to a 30% phosphatidylserine ( PS ) /70% phosphatidylcholine ( PC ) nanodisc caused reduced shifts compared to the solubilized counterparts . Additionally , the vibrational probe bonded to the wildtype ( WT ) Ras construct demonstrated a shift of 7 cm ( -1 ) as a PC nanodisc was doped from 0% to 30% PS , but mutations introduced to the Ras active site caused the probe to show no shift across these PS concentrations . These results indicate that the local membrane environment has an effect on the electrostatics at the Ras active site and needs to be considered when investigating the effect of oncogenic mutations on Ras function . FAU - Fink , Jackson C
Adipocyte hypertrophy , driven by lipid accumulation , is crucial in the development of obesity . Wild blueberry ( WB ; Vaccinium angustifolium ) ( poly ) phenols ( PPs ) metabolites may modulate adipogenesis and the development of obesity . This study examines WB PP metabolites ' effects on lipid accumulation , lipid metabolism , and oxidative stress in mature 3T3-L1 adipocytes . Differentiated 3T3-L1 adipocytes were treated for 48 h with free fatty acids ( FFAs ; oleic/palmitic acid 750 microM , 2 : 1 ratio ) and WB-derived PPs , including ferulic acid ( FA ) , isoferulic acid ( IA ) , vanillic acid ( VA ) , and syringic acid ( SA ) at physiological and supra-physiological concentrations . Assessments included lipid accumulation , glycerol release , and markers of lipid metabolism ( sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1c [SREBP-1] , fatty acid synthase [FASN] , FAB4 ) and oxidative stress ( DNA damage , 8-hydroxy 2-deoxyguanosine [8OHdG] , nuclear erythroid factor 2-related factors 2 ( NRF2 ) , heme oxygenase 1 [HO-1] ) . FFAs significantly increased lipid accumulation , glycerol release , and FASN levels , while reducing HO-1 levels , without affecting other markers . WB PP metabolites did not reduce lipid accumulation , but IA and VA reduced FASN levels ( -25% and -26% ; p < 05 ) , and SA improved HO-1 levels ( +150% ; p < 05 ) . Despite the different effects observed , the findings obtained under our experimental conditions seem to suggest that IA , VA , and SA may modulate lipid metabolism and oxidative stress markers . However , further studies are fundamental to corroborate the findings obtained and support the contribution of these BB PPs metabolites and other compounds in the prevention and management of obesity .
BACKGROUND AND AIM : This study aimed to examine the independent association between changes in participation time across different types of physical activities and dyslipidemia . METHODS AND RESULTS : The study utilized data from a large-scale cohort survey of Koreans , comprising a total of 2543 participants recruited during 2011-2012 and 2013- Physical activity participation times by type were assessed using validated questionnaires , and changes in these participation times over two years were categorized into four groups ( Consistently Inactive , Formerly Active , Newly Active , and Consistently Active ) . Dyslipidemia was classified according to the National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III criteria . Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to calculate odds ratios ( OR ) and 95 % confidence intervals ( CI ) to assess the association between changes in physical activity participation times and dyslipidemia . The analysis revealed that , when adjusting for sex and age , the Consistently Active group had a 40 % lower odds ratio ( OR = 60 , 95 % CI = 45 , 81 ) of dyslipidemia compared to the Consistently Inactive group . Similar results were observed after adjusting for various confounding factors . Also , being newly active ( OR = 75 , 95 % CI = 58 , 97 ) or consistently active ( OR = 63 , 95 % CI = 41 , 97 ) in moderate-intensity physical activity , as well as being consistently active ( OR = 76 , 95 % CI = 61 , 95 ) , in walking , independently reduced the risk of dyslipidemia after adjusting for various confounding variables . CONCLUSIONS : Maintaining a high level of physical activity was associated with a reduced risk of dyslipidemia . Therefore , national recommendations should focus on sustaining and increasing physical activity levels to manage dyslipidemia effectively .
Disorders of lipid metabolism , including hyperlipidemia , atherosclerosis , and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease , are increasing across the globe . Bempedoic acid ( BPA ) is a first-in-class drug for the treatment of hypercholesterolemia and cardiac risk reduction , which may particularly benefit those who do not tolerate statins . Inhibition of hepatic ATP-citrate lyase ( ACLY ) is widely accepted as the main mediator of its observed clinical effects . However , BPA treatment also has ACLY-independent effects on lipid metabolism , as the structural similarity of BPA to endogenous fatty acids allows it to trigger multiple lipid-signaling pathways . Here , we review the molecular targets of BPA and related ' decoy fatty acid ' drugs and identify areas where further study is warranted as these molecules are evaluated for clinical indications .
